FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20110331170657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
On March 28, 2011, Dell Inc. ("Dell") entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives of the underwriters identified therein (the "Underwriters"), relating to the issuance and sale by Dell to the Underwriters of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Floating Rate Notes"), $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.100% Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Fixed Rate Notes"), $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.100% Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes") and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes" and together with the 2014 Floating Rate Notes, the 2014 Fixed Rate Notes and the 2016 Notes, the "Notes"), subject to the terms and conditions therein.
On March 31, 2011, Dell completed the public offering of the foregoing series of Notes. The Notes are governed by the terms of an Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2009, between Dell and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a Fourth Supplemental Indenture (the "Supplemental Indenture"), dated March 31, 2011, between Dell and the Trustee (the "Indenture").
Dell offered the Notes pursuant to the Prospectus Supplement dated March 28, 2011 to the Prospectus dated March 14, 2011, which forms a part of Dell's shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-155041) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 4, 2008, as amended by Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 14, 2011 (the "Registration Statement").
The following exhibits to this Current Report are incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01 and into the Registration Statement:
Dell herewith files the following exhibits:
(d) Exhibits.
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 1.1
 
March 28, 2011
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. BNP Paribas Securities Corp. UBS Securities LLC Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
As Representatives of the several Underwriters
c/o Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. 60 Wall Street New York, NY 10005
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     Dell Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), proposes to issue and sell to the several underwriters named in Schedule A (the ""), acting severally and not jointly, the respective amounts set forth in such Schedule A of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's Floating Rate Notes due 2014 (the ""), $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.100% Notes due 2014 (the ""), $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.100% Notes due 2016 (the "") and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.625% Notes due 2021 (the "" and, together with the 2014 Floating Rate Notes, the 2014 Notes and the 2016 Notes, the ""). Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC have agreed to act as representatives of the several Underwriters (in such capacity, the "") in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes.
Introductory.
Company
Underwriters
2014 Floating Rate Notes
2014 Notes
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
Notes
Representatives
     The Notes will be issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of April 6, 2009 (the ""), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""). Certain terms of the Notes will be established pursuant to a supplemental indenture (the "") to the Base Indenture (together with the Base Indenture, the ""). The Notes will be issued in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the ""), pursuant to a Letter of Representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Date (as defined in Section 2 hereof) (the ""), among the Company, the Trustee and the Depositary.
Base Indenture
Trustee
Supplemental Indenture
Indenture
Depositary
DTC Agreement
     The Company has prepared and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") a registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-155041), which contains a base prospectus dated March 14, 2011 (the "") to be used in connection with the public offering and sale of debt securities, including the Notes, and under the Securities Act of
Commission
Base Prospectus
 
1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), and the offering thereof from time to time in accordance with Rule 415 under the Securities Act. Such registration statement, including any post-effective amendment thereto and the financial statements, exhibits and schedules thereto, in the form in which it became effective under the Securities Act, including any required information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act, is called the "." The term "" shall mean the final prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act after the date and time that this Agreement is executed (the "") by the parties hereto. The term "" shall mean any preliminary prospectus supplement relating to the Notes, together with the Base Prospectus, that is first filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act. Any reference herein to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus shall be deemed to refer to and include the documents that are or are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein pursuant to Item 12 of Form S-3 under the Securities Act prior to 5:00 P.M., New York City time, on March 28, 2011 (the ""). All references in this Agreement to the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, or any amendments or supplements to any of the foregoing, shall include any copy thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System ("").
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Prospectus
Execution Time
Preliminary Prospectus
Initial Sale Time
EDGAR
     All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included" or "stated" (or other references of like import) in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, prior to the Initial Sale Time; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus shall be deemed to include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (collectively, the ""), which is or is deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Prospectus or the Preliminary Prospectus, as the case may be, after the Initial Sale Time.
Exchange Act
The Company hereby confirms its agreements with the Underwriters as follows:
               SECTION 1.
Representations and Warranties of the Company.
     The Company hereby represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time and as of the Closing Date (in each case, a ""), as follows:
Representation Date
     a) The Company meets the requirements for use of Form S-3 under the Securities Act. The Registration Statement has become effective under the Securities Act and no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued under the Securities Act and no proceedings for that
Compliance with Registration Requirements.
 
purpose have been instituted or are pending or, to the Company's knowledge, are contemplated or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information has been complied with.
     At the respective times the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto became effective and at each Representation Date, the Registration Statement and any post-effective amendments thereto (i) complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (the ""), and (ii) did not and will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading. At the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, neither the Prospectus nor any amendments or supplements thereto included or will include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto or the Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any of the Underwriters through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Trust Indenture Act
     Each Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, at the time each was filed with the Commission, complied in all material respects with the Securities Act, and the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus delivered to the Underwriters for use in connection with the offering of the Notes will, at the time of such delivery, be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T of the Commission ("").
Regulation S-T
     b) The term "" shall mean (i) the Preliminary Prospectus dated March 28, 2011, (ii) each "issuer free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act (each, an ""), if any, identified in Annex I hereto and (iii) any other "free writing prospectus" as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act (each, a "") that the parties hereto shall hereafter expressly agree in writing to treat as part of the Disclosure Package. As of the Initial Sale Time, the Disclosure Package did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the Disclosure Package based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Disclosure Package.
Disclosure Package
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
Free Writing Prospectus
 
     c) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus (i) at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied or will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act and (ii) when read together with the other information in the Disclosure Package, at the Initial Sale Time, and when read together with the other information in the Prospectus, at the date of the Prospectus and at the Closing Date, did not or will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
     d) (i) At the time of filing the Preliminary Prospectus and (ii) as of the Execution Time, the Company is an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act for purposes of determining whether the Company or any participant in the offering of the Notes may use Free Writing Prospectuses in respect of such offering in accordance with the provisions of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act.
Ineligible Issuer.
     e) . Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the completion of the offering of Notes under this Agreement or until any earlier date on which the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus. If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus conflicted or would conflict with any information contained in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify the Representatives and has promptly amended or supplemented or will promptly amend or supplement, at its own expense, such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict. The foregoing two sentences do not apply to statements in or omissions from any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus based upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
     f) The Company has not distributed and will not distribute, prior to the later of the Closing Date and the completion of the Underwriters' distribution of the Notes, any offering material in connection with the offering and sale of the Notes other than the Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus permitted under the Securities Act and reviewed and consented to by the Representatives and included in Annex I hereto, the Registration Statement or any other written communications permitted under the Securities Act and reviewed and consented to by the Representatives (collectively, ""). Each such Company Additional Written Communication, when taken together with the Disclosure Package, did not, and at the Closing Date will not, contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the
Distribution of Offering Material By the Company.
Company Additional Written Communication
 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; provided that this representation and warranty shall not apply to statements in or omissions from any such Company Additional Written Communication made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to the Company in writing by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in such Company Additional Written Communication, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter through the Representatives consists of the information described as such in Section 8 hereof.
     g) There are no persons with registration or other similar rights to have any equity or debt securities registered for sale under the Registration Statement or included in the offering contemplated by this Agreement, except for such rights as have been duly waived.
No Applicable Registration or Other Similar Rights.
     h) This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
The Underwriting Agreement.
     i) . The Indenture has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, the Base Indenture has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company, the Supplemental Indenture has been duly authorized by the Company and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee) the Indenture, at the Closing Date, will constitute a valid and binding agreement of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity).
Authorization of the Indenture
     j) The Notes to be purchased by the Underwriters from the Company are substantially in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture and, at the Closing Date, will have been duly executed by the Company and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered against payment of the purchase price therefor as provided in this Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, except as the enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws relating to or affecting the rights and remedies of creditors or by general equitable principles (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding at law or in equity), and will be entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Authorization of the Notes.
     k) The Notes and the Indenture conform in all material respects to the descriptions thereof contained in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
Description of the Notes and the Indenture.
     l) The statements in each of the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Notes," "Description of Debt
Accuracy of Statements in Prospectus.
 
Securities" and "Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," in each case insofar as such statements constitute a summary of the legal matters, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present and summarize, in all material respects, the matters referred to therein.
     m) . Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package, subsequent to the respective dates as of which information is given in the Disclosure Package, (i) neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries has sustained any loss or interference with its business from fire, explosion, flood or other calamity, whether or not covered by insurance, or from any labor dispute or court or governmental action, order or decree, except for losses or interferences that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Change (as defined below) and (ii) there has been no change, or any development involving a prospective change, that would reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse change in the financial position, stockholders' equity or results of operations, whether or not arising from transactions in the ordinary course of business, of the Company and its subsidiaries, considered as a whole (any such change is called a "").
No Material Adverse Change
Material Adverse Change
     n) PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, who has expressed its opinion with respect to the Company's audited financial statements for the fiscal years ended January 30, 2009, January 29, 2010 and January 28, 2011 incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus is, to the best of the Company's knowledge, an independent public accountant with respect to the Company as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and are, to the best of the Company's knowledge, an independent registered public accounting firm with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Independent Registered Public Accountants.
     o) The financial statements together with the related notes thereto incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of and at the dates indicated and the results of their operations and the changes in their cash flows for the periods specified, in each case on a consolidated basis. Such financial statements comply in all material respects as to form with the accounting requirements of the Securities Act and have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles as applied in the United States applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods involved, except as otherwise noted in the related notes thereto. No other financial statements are required to be included in the Registration Statement. The selected financial data, as applicable, included in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus present fairly in all material respects the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements or, as applicable, unaudited financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Preparation of the Financial Statements.
     p) The Company has been duly incorporated and is validly existing as a corporation in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and has corporate power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Company.
 
operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus and to enter into and perform its obligations under this Agreement. The Company is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
     q) Each of the Company's significant subsidiaries (as defined in Rule 1-02(10) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act, the "") has been duly incorporated or formed and is validly existing as a corporation or other legal entity, as the case may be, in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation or formation, and has corporate or other legal entity power and authority to own or lease, as the case may be, and operate its properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, except where the failure to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Each of the Significant Subsidiaries is duly qualified as a foreign corporation or other legal entity to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction in which such qualification is required, whether by reason of the ownership or leasing of property or the conduct of business, except for such jurisdictions where the failure to so qualify or to be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. Except as otherwise disclosed in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other ownership interests of each of the Significant Subsidiaries have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and (except for any qualifying shares owned by directors or members of any other governing body of a subsidiary and, in the case of Significant Subsidiaries incorporated or formed under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or a state thereof, shares owned by foreign citizens or other individuals to the extent required under the laws of such jurisdiction) are owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, free and clear of any material security interest, mortgage, pledge, lien, encumbrance or claim. The Company does not have any subsidiary not listed on Exhibit 21 to the Form 10-K which was required to be so listed when the Form 10-K was filed.
Incorporation and Good Standing of the Significant Subsidiaries.
Significant Subsidiaries
     r) The Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package and by the Prospectus (i) have been duly authorized by the Company by all necessary corporate action and will not result in any violation or default (or, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) ("") under the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company or the comparable organizational documents of any of its subsidiaries, (ii) will not conflict with or constitute a breach of, or Default or a Debt Repayment Triggering Event (as defined below) under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien, charge or encumbrance upon any property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries pursuant to, or require the consent of any other party to, any indenture, mortgage, loan or credit agreement, deed of trust or other agreement, obligation, condition, covenant or instrument to which the Company or any of
Non-Contravention of Existing Instruments; No Further Authorizations or Approvals Required.
Default
 
its subsidiaries is a party or by which it or any of them is bound or to which any of the property or assets of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, and (iii) will not result in any violation of any statute, law, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree applicable to the Company or any of its subsidiaries of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties, except, with respect to clauses (ii) and (iii) only, for such conflicts, breaches, Defaults, Debt Repayment Triggering Events, liens, charges, encumbrances, requirements for consent or violations as would not, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change. No consent, approval, authorization or other order of, or registration or filing with, any court or other governmental or regulatory authority or agency is required for the Company's execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement or consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, by the Disclosure Package or by the Prospectus, except such as have been or will be obtained or made by the Company prior to or on the Closing Date and except for such consents, approvals, authorizations or other orders of, or registrations or filings required under or with, applicable securities authorities of U.S. jurisdictions pursuant to applicable state securities or blue sky laws or the securities laws of any jurisdiction outside the United States in which the Notes are offered for sale or from or with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("") or filings required to be made after the Closing Date pursuant to the Company's periodic reporting obligations under the Exchange Act. As used herein, a "" means any event or condition which gives, or with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both would give, the holder of any note, debenture or other evidence of indebtedness (or any person acting on such holder's behalf) issued by the Company the right to require the repurchase, redemption or repayment of all or a portion of such indebtedness by the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
FINRA
Debt Repayment Triggering Event
     s) Except as disclosed in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits or proceedings pending or, to the best of the Company's knowledge, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its subsidiaries or of which any property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject which, if determined adversely to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, would, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
No Material Actions or Proceedings.
     t) The Company and its subsidiaries own or possess, or can acquire on reasonable terms, all material patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how (including trade secrets and other unpatented and/or unpatentable proprietary or confidential information, systems or procedures), trademarks, service marks and trade names currently employed by them in connection with the business now operated by them, and neither the Company nor any or its subsidiaries has received any notice of infringement of or conflict with asserted rights of others with respect to any of the foregoing which, individually or in the aggregate, if the subject of an unfavorable decision, ruling or finding, would reasonably be expected to, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Change.
Intellectual Property Rights.
     u) The Company is not, and after receipt of payment for the Notes and the application of the proceeds thereof as contemplated under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus will not be, required
Company Not an Investment Company.
 
to register as an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
     v) To the Company's knowledge, none of the Company, any of its subsidiaries or any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is aware of or has taken any action, directly or indirectly, that would result in a violation by the Company or any of its subsidiaries of the FCPA (as defined below), and, to the Company's knowledge, the Company and its subsidiaries have conducted their businesses in compliance with the FCPA and have instituted and maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure, and which are reasonably expected to continue to ensure, continued compliance with the FCPA. "" means the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
No Unlawful Contributions or Other Payments.
FCPA
     w) The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times in compliance in all material respects with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all applicable jurisdictions, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened.
No Conflict with Money Laundering Laws.
Money Laundering Laws
     x) Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries nor, to the Company's knowledge, any director, officer, agent, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of the Company's subsidiaries is currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department (""); and the Company will not directly or indirectly use the proceeds of the sale of the Notes, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person currently subject to any U.S. sanctions administered by OFAC.
No Conflict with OFAC Laws.
OFAC
     y) The Company maintains a system of internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act) that complies with the requirements of the Exchange Act and has been designed by the Company's principal executive officer and principal financial officer, or under their supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Management of the Company assessed the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 28, 2011, and concluded that the Company's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of such date. The Company is not aware of any material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting.
Internal Controls and Procedures.
 
     z) Since the date of the latest audited financial statements of the Company filed with the Commission, there has been no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting.
No Material Weakness in Internal Controls.
     aa) The Company maintains disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) that comply with the requirements of the Exchange Act; such disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company and its subsidiaries in the reports that the Company files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management; and such disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of January 28, 2011.
Disclosure Controls and Procedures.
     Any certificate signed by an officer of the Company and delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Company to each Underwriter as to the matters set forth therein.
               SECTION 2.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of the Notes.
     a) The Company agrees to issue and sell to the several Underwriters, severally and not jointly, all of the Notes upon the terms herein set forth. On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements herein contained, and upon the terms but subject to the conditions herein set forth, the Underwriters agree, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company (i) the aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Floating Rate Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.750% of the principal amount of the 2014 Floating Rate Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from March 31, 2011 to the Closing Date, payable on the Closing Date, (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.718% of the principal amount of the 2014 Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from March 31, 2011 to the Closing Date, payable on the Closing Date, (iii) the aggregate principal amount of the 2016 Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.549% of the principal amount of the 2016 Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from March 31, 2011 to the Closing Date, payable on the Closing Date, and (iv) the aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Notes set forth opposite their names on Schedule A at a purchase price of 99.091% of the principal amount of the 2021 Notes, plus accrued interest, if any, from March 31, 2011 to the Closing Date, payable on the Closing Date.
The Notes.
     b) Delivery of certificates for the Notes in global form to be purchased by the Underwriters and payment therefor shall be made at the offices of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, 825 Eighth Avenue, New York, New York, 10019 (or such other place as may be agreed to by the Company and the Representatives) at 9:00 A.M., New York City time, on March 31, 2011, or such other time and date as the Underwriters and the Company shall mutually agree (the time and date of such closing are called the "").
The Closing Date.
Closing Date
 
     c) The Representatives hereby advise the Company that the Underwriters intend to offer for sale to the public, as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, their respective portions of the Notes as soon after the Execution Time as the Representatives, in their sole judgment, have determined is advisable and practicable.
Public Offering of the Notes.
     d) Payment for the Notes shall be made at the Closing Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the order of the Company.
Payment for the Notes.
     It is understood that the Representatives have been authorized, for their own account and for the accounts of the several Underwriters, to accept delivery of and receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes that the Underwriters have agreed to purchase. The Representatives may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment for any Notes to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds shall not have been received by the Representatives by the Closing Date for the account of such Underwriter, but any such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from any of its obligations under this Agreement.
     e) The Company shall deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters certificates for the Notes at the Closing Date, against the irrevocable release of a wire transfer of immediately available funds for the amount of the purchase price therefor. The certificates for the Notes shall be in such denominations and registered in such names and denominations as the Representatives shall have requested at least two full business days prior to the Closing Date and shall be made available for inspection on the business day preceding the Closing Date at a location in New York City, as the Representatives may designate. Time shall be of the essence, and delivery at the time and place specified in this Agreement is a further condition to the obligations of the Underwriters.
Delivery of the Notes.
               SECTION 3.
Covenants of the Company.
     The Company covenants and agrees with each Underwriter as follows:
     a) The Company, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, will comply with the requirements of Rule 430B under the Securities Act, and will promptly notify the Representatives, and confirm such notice in writing, of (i) the effectiveness during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined below) of any post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the filing of any supplement or amendment to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, (ii) the receipt of any comments from the Commission during the Prospectus Delivery Period (as defined in paragraph (b) of this Section 3), (iii) any request by the Commission for any amendment to the Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement to the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or for additional information, and (iv) the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus, or of the suspension of the qualification of the Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or of the initiation or threatening of any proceedings for any of such purposes. The Company will promptly effect the filings necessary pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act and will take such steps as it deems necessary to
Compliance with Securities Regulations and Commission Requests.
 
ascertain promptly whether the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus transmitted for filing pursuant to Rule 424 under the Securities Act were received for filing by the Commission and, in the event that either such document was not so received, it will promptly file such document. The Company will use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order and, if any stop order is issued, to obtain the lifting thereof at the earliest possible moment.
     b) During such period beginning on the date of this Agreement and ending on the later of the Closing Date or such date as, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, the Prospectus is no longer required by law to be delivered in connection with sales of the Notes by an Underwriter or dealer, including in circumstances where such requirement may be satisfied pursuant to Rule 172 under the Securities Act (the ""), the Company will give the Representatives notice of its intention to file or prepare any amendment to the Registration Statement, or any amendment, supplement or revision to the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, whether pursuant to the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, will furnish the Representatives with copies of any such documents a reasonable amount of time prior to such proposed filing or use, as the case may be, and will not file or use any such document to which the Representatives or counsel for the Underwriters shall reasonably object.
Filing of Amendments.
Prospectus Delivery Period
     c) The Company has furnished or will deliver to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters, without charge, electronic copies or photocopies of the signed Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (including exhibits filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein and documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein) and electronic copies or photocopies of all consents and certificates of experts, and will also deliver to the Representatives, without charge, a conformed copy of the Registration Statement as originally filed and of each amendment thereto (without exhibits) for each of the Underwriters. The Registration Statement and each amendment thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Registration Statements.
     d) The Company will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request, and the Company hereby consents to the use of such copies for purposes permitted by the Securities Act. The Company will furnish to each Underwriter, without charge, during the Prospectus Delivery Period, such number of copies of the Prospectus as such Underwriter may reasonably request. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus and any amendments or supplements thereto furnished to the Underwriters will be identical to any electronically transmitted copies thereof filed with the Commission pursuant to EDGAR, except to the extent permitted by Regulation S-T.
Delivery of Prospectuses.
     e) . The Company will comply with the Securities Act and the Exchange Act so as to permit the completion of the distribution of the Notes as contemplated in this Agreement and in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus. If at any time during the Prospectus Delivery Period, any event
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
 
shall occur or condition shall exist as a result of which it is necessary, in the opinion of the Underwriters or the Company, to amend the Registration Statement in order that the Registration Statement will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading or to amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order that the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus, as the case may be, will not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances existing at the Initial Sale Time or at the time the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus is delivered or conveyed to a purchaser, not misleading, or if it shall be necessary, in the opinion of either the Company or the Underwriters, at any such time to amend the Registration Statement or amend or supplement the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus in order to comply with the requirements of any law, the Company will (1) notify the Representatives of any such event, development or condition and (2) promptly prepare and file with the Commission, subject to Section 3(b) hereof, such amendment or supplement as may be necessary to correct such statement or omission or to make the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus comply with such law, and the Company will furnish to the Underwriters, without charge, such number of copies of such amendment or supplement as the Underwriters may reasonably request.
     f) The Company shall cooperate with the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters to qualify or register the Notes for sale under (or obtain exemptions from the application of) the state securities or blue sky laws of those U.S. jurisdictions designated by the Representatives, shall comply with such laws and shall continue such qualifications, registrations and exemptions in effect so long as required for the distribution of the Notes. The Company shall not be required to qualify to transact business or to take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not presently qualified or where it would be subject to taxation as a foreign business. The Company will advise the Representatives promptly of the suspension of the qualification or registration of (or any such exemption relating to) the Notes for offering, sale or trading in any jurisdiction or any initiation or threat of any proceeding for any such purpose, and in the event of the issuance of any order suspending such qualification, registration or exemption, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal thereof at the earliest possible moment.
Blue Sky Compliance.
     g) The Company shall apply the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes sold by it in the manner described under the caption "Use of Proceeds" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Use of Proceeds.
     h) The Company will cooperate with the Underwriters and use its reasonable best efforts to permit the Notes to be eligible for clearance and settlement through the facilities of the Depositary.
Depositary.
     i) During the Prospectus Delivery Period, the Company shall file, on a timely basis, with the Commission and the NASDAQ Global Select Market all reports and documents required to be filed by the Company under the Exchange Act.
Periodic Reporting Obligations.
 
     j) During the period commencing on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date, the Company will not, without the prior written consent of the Representatives (which consent may be withheld at the sole discretion of the Representatives), directly or indirectly, sell, offer, contract or grant any option to sell, pledge, transfer or establish an open "put equivalent position" within the meaning of Rule 16a-1(h) under the Exchange Act, or otherwise dispose of or transfer, or announce the offering of, or file any registration statement under the Securities Act in respect of, any debt securities of the Company similar to the Notes or securities exchangeable for or convertible into debt securities similar to the Notes (other than as contemplated by this Agreement with respect to the Notes).
Agreement Not to Offer or Sell Additional Securities.
     k) . The Company will prepare final term sheets containing only a description of the Notes, in a form approved by the Underwriters and substantially in the form of Exhibits B-1, B-2, B-3 and B-4 hereto and will file such term sheets pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the Securities Act within the time required by such rule (such term sheets, the ""). Any such Final Term Sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Final Term Sheet
Final Term Sheet
     l) . The Company represents that it has not made, and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior written consent of the Representatives, it will not make, any offer relating to the Notes that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus or that would otherwise constitute a Free Writing Prospectus required to be filed by the Company with the Commission or retained by the Company pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act; provided that the prior written consent of the Representatives shall be deemed to have been given in respect of any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses attached as Annex I to this Agreement. Any such Free Writing Prospectus consented to or deemed to be consented to by the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "." The Company agrees that (i) it has treated and will treat, as the case may be, each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (ii) has complied and will comply, as the case may be, with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 under the Securities Act applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including in respect of timely filing with the Commission, legending and record keeping. The Company consents to the use by any Underwriter of a Free Writing Prospectus that (a) is not an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, and (b) contains only (i) information describing the preliminary terms of the Notes or their offering, or (ii) information that describes the final terms of the Notes or their offering and that is included in the Final Term Sheet of the Company contemplated in Section 3(k) hereof.
Permitted Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
     m) If immediately prior to the third anniversary (the "") of the initial effective date of the Registration Statement, any of the Notes remain unsold by the Underwriters, the Company will prior to the Renewal Deadline, if it has not already done so and is eligible to do so, file a new shelf registration statement relating to the Notes, in a form satisfactory to the Representatives, and will use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to be declared effective within 60 days after the Renewal Deadline. The Company will take all other action necessary or appropriate and consistent with the Securities Act to permit the public offering and sale of the
Registration Statement Renewal Deadline.
Renewal Deadline
 
Notes to continue as contemplated in the expired registration statement relating to the Notes. References herein to the Registration Statement shall include such new shelf registration statement, as the case may be.
     The Representatives, on behalf of the several Underwriters, may, in their sole discretion, waive in writing the performance by the Company of any one or more of the foregoing covenants or extend the time for their performance.
               SECTION 4. The Company agrees to pay all costs, fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, including without limitation (i) all expenses incident to the issuance and delivery of the Notes (including all printing and engraving costs), (ii) all necessary issue, transfer and other stamp taxes in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes, (iii) all fees and expenses of the Company's counsel, independent public or certified public accountants and other advisors to the Company, (iv) all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, printing, filing, shipping and distribution of the Registration Statement (including financial statements, exhibits, schedules, consents and certificates of experts), each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, each Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus, and all amendments and supplements thereto, and this Agreement, the Indenture, the DTC Agreement and the Notes, (v) all filing fees, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses incurred by the Company or the Underwriters in connection with qualifying or registering (or obtaining exemptions from the qualification or registration of) all or any part of the Notes for offer and sale under the state securities or blue sky laws, and, if requested by the Representatives, preparing a "Blue Sky Survey" or memorandum, and any supplements thereto, advising the Underwriters of such qualifications, registrations and exemptions, (vi) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review, if any, by FINRA of the terms of the sale of the Notes, (vii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Notes with the rating agencies, (ix) all fees and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of the Company in connection with approval of the Notes by the Depositary for book-entry transfer, (x) all other fees, costs and expenses referred to in Item 14 of Part II of the Registration Statement, and (xi) all other fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder for which provision is not otherwise made in this Section. Except as provided in this Section 4 and Sections 6, 8 and 9 hereof, the Underwriters shall pay their own expenses, including the fees and disbursements of their counsel.
Payment of Expenses.
               SECTION 5. The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Notes as provided herein on the Closing Date shall be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties on the part of the Company set forth in Section 1 hereof as of the date hereof, as of the Initial Sale Time, and as of the Closing Date as though then made and to the timely performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to each of the following additional conditions:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters.
 
     a) . No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement shall have been issued under the Securities Act, and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or be pending or threatened by the Commission, and any request on the part of the Commission for additional information shall have been complied with to the reasonable satisfaction of the Underwriters. The Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act.
No Stop Orders
     b) On the date hereof, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated the date hereof addressed to the Company and the Underwriters, of a type reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives with respect to the audited financial statements and certain financial information contained and incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus.
Accountants' Comfort Letter.
     c) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accountants for the Company, a letter dated such date addressed to the Company and the Underwriters, of a type reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished by them pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 5, except that the specified date referred to therein for the carrying out of procedures shall be no more than three business days prior to the Closing Date.
Bring-down Comfort Letter
     d) For the period from and after the date of this Agreement and prior to the Closing Date:
No Material Adverse Change or Ratings Agency Change.
     (i) there shall not have been a Material Adverse Change, the effect of which is, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Prospectus;
     (ii) there shall not have been any change or decrease specified in the letter or letters referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 5 which is, in the sole judgment of the Representatives, so material and adverse as to make it impractical or inadvisable to proceed with the offering or delivery of the Notes as contemplated by the Prospectus; and
     (iii) there shall not have occurred any downgrading, nor shall any notice have been given of any intended or potential downgrading or of any review for a possible change that does not indicate the direction of the possible change, in the rating accorded any securities of the Company or any of its subsidiaries by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as such term is defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the Securities Act.
     e) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion and negative assurance statement of Hogan Lovells US
Opinion of Counsel for the Company.
 
LLP, counsel for the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, substantially in the form of Exhibit A-1.
     f) . On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Janet B. Wright, Vice President-Corporate, Securities & Finance Counsel of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, substantially in the form of Exhibit A-2.
Opinion of Internal Counsel
     g) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, dated as of such Closing Date, with respect to such matters as may be reasonably requested by the Underwriters.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters.
     h) On the Closing Date, the Representatives shall have received a written certificate executed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or a Senior Vice President, and the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Accounting Officer, or the Treasurer of the Company, dated as of such Closing Date, to the effect that:
Officers' Certificate.
     (i) the Company has received no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, and no proceedings for such purpose have been instituted or threatened by the Commission;
     (ii) the representations and warranties of the Company set forth in Section 1 of this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made on and as of such Closing Date; and
     (iii) the Company has complied with all the agreements hereunder and satisfied all the conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to such Closing Date.
     i) On or before the Closing Date, the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters shall have received such information, documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purposes of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes as contemplated herein, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations and warranties, or the satisfaction of any of the conditions or agreements, herein contained.
Additional Documents.
     If any condition specified in this Section 5 is not satisfied when and as required to be satisfied, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time on or prior to the Closing Date, which termination shall be without liability on the part of any party to any other party, except that this sentence and Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 18 hereof shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination.
               SECTION 6. If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives pursuant to Section 5 or 11 hereof, or if the sale to the Underwriters of the Notes on the Closing Date is not consummated because of any refusal,
Reimbursement of Underwriters' Expenses.
 
inability or failure on the part of the Company to perform any agreement herein or to comply with any provision hereof, the Company agrees to reimburse the Representatives and the other Underwriters (or such Underwriters as have terminated this Agreement with respect to themselves), severally, upon demand for all out-of-pocket expenses that shall have been reasonably incurred by the Representatives and the Underwriters in connection with the proposed purchase and the offering and sale of the Notes, including but not limited to reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel, printing expenses, travel expenses, postage, facsimile and telephone charges.
               SECTION 7. This Agreement shall not become effective until the execution of this Agreement by the parties hereto.
Effectiveness of this Agreement.
               SECTION 8.
Indemnification.
     a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and to reimburse each Underwriter and each such director, officer, employee, agent and controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Representatives) as such expenses are reasonably incurred by such Underwriter or such director, officer, employee, agent or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action; provided, however, that the foregoing indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense to the extent, but only to the extent, arising out of or based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(a) shall be in addition to any liabilities that the Company may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Underwriters.
 
     b) Each Underwriter agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors, each of its officers who signed the Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense, as incurred, to which the Company or any such director, officer or controlling person may become subject, under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or other Federal or state statutory law or regulation, or at common law or otherwise (including in settlement of any litigation, if such settlement is effected with the written consent of such Underwriter), insofar as such loss, claim, damage, liability or expense (or actions in respect thereof as contemplated below) arises out of or is based (i) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Registration Statement, or any amendment thereto, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; or (ii) upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto), in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein; and to reimburse the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person for any and all expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by the Company), as such expenses are reasonably incurred by the Company, or any such director, officer or controlling person in connection with investigating, defending, settling, compromising or paying any such loss, claim, damage, liability, expense or action. The Company hereby acknowledges that the only information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use in the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) are the statements set forth in the third and seventh paragraphs under the caption "Underwriting" in the Preliminary Prospectus and the Prospectus. The indemnity agreement set forth in this Section 8(b) shall be in addition to any liabilities that each Underwriter may otherwise have.
Indemnification of the Company, its Directors and Officers.
     c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 8 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against an indemnifying party under this Section 8, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission so to notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party for contribution or otherwise than under the indemnity agreement contained in this Section 8 or to the extent it is not prejudiced as a proximate result of such failure. In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and such
Notifications and Other Indemnification Procedures.
 
indemnified party seeks or intends to seek indemnity from an indemnifying party, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in, and, to the extent that it shall elect, jointly with all other indemnifying parties similarly notified, by written notice delivered to the indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party; provided, however, such indemnified party shall have the right to employ its own counsel in any such action and to participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party, unless: (i) the employment of such counsel has been specifically authorized in writing by the indemnifying party; (ii) the indemnifying party has failed promptly to assume the defense and employ counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party; or (iii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include both such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or any affiliate of the indemnifying party, and such indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that either (x) there may be one or more legal defenses available to it which are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party or (y) a conflict may exist between such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or such affiliate of the indemnifying party (it being understood, however, that the indemnifying party shall not, in connection with any one such action or separate but substantially similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances, be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm of attorneys (in addition to a single firm of local counsel) for all such indemnified parties, which firm shall be designated in writing by the Representatives in the case of paragraph (a) of this Section 8, and by the Company in the case of paragraph (b) of this Section 8, and that all such reasonable fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred). Upon receipt of notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of such indemnifying party's election so to assume the defense of such action and approval by the indemnified party of counsel, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 8 for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof unless the indemnified party shall have employed separate counsel in accordance with the proviso to the next preceding sentence, in which case the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be at the expense of the indemnifying party.
     d) The indemnifying party under this Section 8 shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there be a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party against any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense by reason of such settlement or judgment in accordance with this Section 8. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement, compromise or consent to the entry of judgment in any pending or threatened action, suit or proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity was or could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such action, suit or proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act, by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
Settlements.
 
               SECTION 9. If the indemnification provided for in Section 8 hereof is for any reason held to be unavailable to or otherwise insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount paid or payable by such indemnified party, as incurred, as a result of any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses referred to therein (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, in connection with the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company, and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the front cover page of the Prospectus, bear to the aggregate initial public offering price of the Notes as set forth on such cover. The relative fault of the Company, on the one hand, and the Underwriters, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or the Underwriters, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
Contribution.
     The amount paid or payable by a party as a result of the losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses referred to above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth in Section 8(c) hereof, any reasonable legal or other fees or expenses reasonably incurred by such party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim.
     The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 9 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 9.
     Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 9, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the underwriting commissions received by such Underwriter in connection with the Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public. No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 9 are several, and not joint, in proportion to their respective underwriting commitments as set forth opposite their names in Schedule A. For purposes of this Section 9, each director, officer, employee and agent of an Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of the
 
Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each person, if any, who controls the Company with the meaning of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
               SECTION 10. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the several Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder on such date, and the aggregate principal amount of Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Underwriters shall be obligated, severally, in the proportion that the aggregate principal amounts of such Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bear to the aggregate principal amount of such Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Underwriters, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Representatives with the consent of the non-defaulting Underwriters, to purchase such Notes which such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If, on the Closing Date, any one or more of the Underwriters shall fail or refuse to purchase such Notes and the aggregate principal amount of such Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes to be purchased on such date, and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party except that the provisions of Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 18 hereof shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Representatives or the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Date, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Registration Statement, any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, any Company Additional Written Communication, the Preliminary Prospectus or the Prospectus or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Default of One or More of the Several Underwriters.
     As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Underwriter under this Section 10. Any action taken under this Section 10 shall not relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of any default of such Underwriter under this Agreement.
               SECTION 11. Prior to the Closing Date, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice given to the Company if at any time (i) trading or quotation in any of the Company's securities shall have been suspended or limited by the Commission or the NASDAQ Global Select Market, or trading in securities generally on any of the NASDAQ Stock Market, the New York Stock Exchange or the NASDAQ Global Select Market shall have been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices shall have been generally established on any of such stock exchanges by the Commission or FINRA; (ii) a general banking moratorium shall have been declared by any of Federal or New York authorities; (iii) there shall have occurred any outbreak or escalation of national or international hostilities or any crisis or calamity involving the United States, or any change in the
Termination of this Agreement.
 
United States or international financial markets, or any substantial change or development involving a prospective substantial change in United States or international political, financial or economic conditions, as in the judgment of the Representatives is material and adverse and makes it impracticable or inadvisable to market the Notes in the manner and on the terms described in the Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or to enforce contracts for the sale of securities; or (iv) there shall have occurred a material disruption in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services. Any termination pursuant to this Section 11 shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Sections 4 and 6 hereof, and provided further that Sections 4, 6, 8, 9 and 18 hereof shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
               SECTION 12. The Company acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Notes pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the public offering price of the Notes and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction, each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the financial advisor, agent or fiduciary of the Company or its affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory, agency or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company on other matters) and no Underwriter has any obligation to the Company with respect to the offering contemplated hereby except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any advisory, agency or fiduciary relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it deemed appropriate.
No Fiduciary Duty.
     This Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the Company and the several Underwriters with respect to the subject matter hereof. The Company hereby waives and releases, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of agency or fiduciary duty.
               SECTION 13. The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company, of its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement (i) will remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any (A) investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the officers or employees of any Underwriter, or any person controlling the Underwriter, the
Representations and Indemnities to Survive Delivery.
 
Company, the officers or employees of the Company, or any person controlling the Company, as the case may be, or (B) acceptance of the Notes and payment for them hereunder and (ii) will survive delivery of and payment for the Notes sold hereunder and any termination of this Agreement.
               SECTION 14. . In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
Miscellaneous
               SECTION 15. All communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be mailed, hand delivered or telecopied and confirmed to the parties hereto as follows:
Notices.
If to the Representatives:
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. BNP Paribas Securities Corp. UBS Securities LLC Wells Fargo Securities, LLC c/o Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. 60 Wall Street New York, NY 10005 Facsimile: 212-797-2202 Attention: Debt Capital Markets Syndicate
with a copy to:
Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP 825 Eighth Avenue New York, NY 10019 Facsimile: 212-474-3700 Attention: LizabethAnn R. Eisen, Esq.
If to the Company:
Dell Inc. One Dell Way Round Rock, TX 78682 Facsimile: 512-283-0544 Attention: Assistant Secretary
 
with a copy to:
Hogan Lovells US LLP Columbia Square 555 Thirteenth Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20004 Facsimile: 202-637-5910 Attention: Richard J. Parrino, Esq.                  David P. Slotkin, Esq.
     Any party hereto may change the address for receipt of communications by giving written notice to the others.
               SECTION 16. This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, including any substitute Underwriters pursuant to Section 10 hereof, and to the benefit of the directors, officers, employees, agents and controlling persons referred to in Sections 8 and 9 hereof, and in each case their respective successors, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder. The term "successors" shall not include any purchaser of the Notes as such from any of the Underwriters merely by reason of such purchase.
Successors.
               SECTION 17. The invalidity or unenforceability of any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other Section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any Section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability.
               SECTION 18. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN THAT STATE.
Governing Law Provisions.
               SECTION 19. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The Section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General Provisions.
     Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that it is a sophisticated business person who was adequately represented by counsel during negotiations regarding the provisions hereof, including, without limitation, the indemnification provisions of Section 8 hereof and the contribution provisions of Section 9 hereof, and is fully informed regarding such provisions. Each of the parties hereto further acknowledges that the provisions of Sections 8 and 9 hereof fairly allocate the risks in light of the ability of the parties to investigate the Company, its affairs
 
and its business in order to assure that adequate disclosure has been made in the Registration Statement, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus (and any amendments and supplements thereto), as required by the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
     If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copies hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts hereof, shall become a binding agreement in accordance with its terms.
 
     The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted by the Representatives as of the date first above written.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. BNP Paribas Securities Corp. UBS Securities LLC Wells Fargo Securities, LLC
Acting as Representatives of the several Underwriters named in the attached Schedule A.
 
 
 
 
 
Final Term Sheets dated March 28, 2011 relating to the Notes
 
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the underwriting agreement, dated March 28, 2011 (the "Underwriting Agreement") among Dell Inc, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC as representatives of the several underwriters listed on Schedule A of the Underwriting Agreement.
          (a) The Company is validly existing as a corporation and is in good standing as of the date hereof under the Corporation Act.
          (b) The Company has the corporate power to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement and to own, lease and operate its current properties and to conduct its business as described in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
          (c) The Notes (i) have been duly authorized by the Company and (ii) when executed, authenticated, issued and delivered in the manner provided for in the Indenture against payment therefor in accordance with the Underwriting Agreement, will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms.
          (d) The Underwriting Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
          (e) The Indenture (i) has been duly qualified under the Trust Indenture Act, (ii) has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (iii) constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms.
          (f) The Notes and the Indenture conform as to legal matters in all material respects to the descriptions thereof set forth in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Debt Securities" and "Description of Notes."
          (g) The information in the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus under the captions "Description of Debt Securities," "Description of Notes" and "Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations," to the extent that such information constitutes matters of law or legal conclusions, has been reviewed by us and is correct in all material respects.
          (h) Based solely upon our review of the information regarding the Company provided through the EDGAR system on the website of the Commission, the Registration Statement has become effective under the 1933 Act, and, based solely upon telephone communications between an attorney of this firm and a member of the staff of the Commission, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or suspending or preventing the use of the Prospectus has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or are threatened by the Commission. The required filing of the Prospectus
 
pursuant to Rule 424(b) promulgated pursuant to the 1933 Act has been made in the manner and within the time period required by Rule 424(b).
          (i) At the most recent time the Registration Statement became effective and as of the date of the Underwriting Agreement, the Registration Statement and, as of its date, the Prospectus (except for the financial statements and supporting schedules included therein and the Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 of the Trustee, as to which we express no opinion), excluding the documents incorporated by reference therein, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and the requirements of the 1933 Act. The Disclosure Package, as of the Initial Sale Time, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act.
          (j) The documents incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Preliminary Prospectus, the Disclosure Package and the Prospectus, at the time they were filed with the Commission, appear on their face to comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the Exchange Act.
          (k) The execution, delivery and performance on the date hereof by the Company of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes do not (i) violate the Corporation Act, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws, (ii) violate any provision of Applicable Federal Law or any provision of Applicable State Law, or (iii) breach or constitute a default under any indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan agreement, instrument or other agreement or contract of the Company that is included as an exhibit to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2011 (except that we express no opinion with respect to any matters that would require a mathematical calculation or a financial or accounting determination).
          (l) No authorization, order, approval or consent of, or registration or filing with, any federal governmental agency or any New York governmental agency is required to be obtained or made by the Company under Applicable Federal Law or Applicable State Law or under the Corporation Act in connection with the execution, delivery and performance on the date hereof by the Company of the Underwriting Agreement, the Indenture and the Notes.
          (m) The Company is not an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
During the course of our professional engagement, we reviewed the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-155041) (including the documents incorporated therein by reference, the "Registration Statement"), the documents listed on hereto (those documents listed on , including the documents incorporated therein by reference, the "Pricing Disclosure Package"), and the final prospectus supplement, dated March 28, 2011, as filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (together with the Base Prospectus and the documents incorporated therein by reference, the "Prospectus"), and participated in conferences with officers and other representatives of the Company, with representatives of the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company and with you and your representatives at which the contents of the Registration Statement, the Pricing Disclosure Package, and the Prospectus and related matters were
Schedule A
Schedule A
 
discussed. The purpose of our professional engagement was not to establish or confirm factual matters set forth in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Disclosure Package, and the Prospectus, and we have not undertaken any obligation to verify independently any of those factual matters. Accordingly, we do not assume any responsibility for the accuracy, completeness, or fairness of the statements in the Registration Statement, the Pricing Disclosure Package, and the Prospectus, other than as set forth in paragraphs (f) and (g) of our opinion letter to you dated the date hereof. Moreover, many of the determinations required to be made in the preparation of the Registration Statement, the Pricing Disclosure Package, and the Prospectus involve matters of a non-legal nature.
          Subject to the foregoing, we confirm to you that, on the basis of the information we gained in the course of performing the services referred to above, no facts have come to our attention that cause us to believe that:
          (i) the Registration Statement, at the most recent time it became effective or as of the date of the Underwriting Agreement, contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading;
          (ii) the Prospectus, as of its date or as of the date hereof, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or
          (iii) the Pricing Disclosure Package, as of 5:00 P.M. (New York City time) on March 28, 2011 (which you have informed us is a time prior to the time of the first sale of the Notes by any Underwriter), contained an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
      , in making the foregoing statements, we do not express any belief with respect to the financial statements and supporting schedules and other financial or accounting information contained or incorporated by reference in or omitted from the Registration Statement, the Pricing Disclosure Package, or the Prospectus, nor do we express any belief with respect to the Company's assessments of or reports on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
provided
that
 
Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the Underwriting Agreement, dated March 28, 2011 among Dell Inc, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., BNP Paribas Securities Corp., UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as representatives of the several underwriters listed on Schedule A of the Underwriting Agreement.
     (i) The Company has been duly qualified as a foreign corporation for the transaction of business and is in good standing under the law of the State of Texas.
     (ii) To my knowledge and other than as set forth in the Prospectus and the Disclosure Package, there are no legal or governmental actions, suits, proceedings or investigations pending or overtly threatened against the Company or any of its subsidiaries which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Change.
     (iii) The issuance and sale of the Notes and the compliance by the Company with the provisions of the Notes, the Indenture and the Underwriting Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated therein will not result in any violation of any judgment, order or decree of any court, regulatory body, administrative agency, governmental body, arbitrator or other authority known to me directed to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any of its or their properties in a proceeding to which any of them or their property is a party, except for any such violation that would not, individually or in the aggregate, have a Material Adverse Change.
 
     In addition to the securities described in the preliminary prospectus supplement, the Issuer also is issuing a series of Floating Rate Notes due 2014. Certain of the terms of the 2014 Floating Rate Notes are described below. In addition to the terms described below, the following sections of the preliminary prospectus supplement relate to the description of the 2014 Floating Rate Notes: the cover page; the introductory paragraphs of the section entitled "Description of Notes"; the subsections of the "Description of Notes" entitled "General," "Ranking," "Issuance of Additional Notes," "Covenants," "Events of Default," "Reports," "Satisfaction and Discharge; Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance," "Book Entry Delivery and Settlement," "Governing Law," and "Regarding the Trustee"; the provisions of the section entitled "SummaryThe Offering" which correspond to the foregoing subsections; and the section of the base prospectus entitled "Description of Debt Securities."
 
     The 2014 Floating Rate Notes will bear interest for each interest period at a rate determined by the calculation agent. The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. will be the calculation agent until such time, if any, as we appoint a successor calculation agent. The interest rate on the 2014 Floating Rate Notes for a particular interest period will be a per annum rate equal to three-month USD LIBOR as determined on the interest determination date plus 0.60%. The interest determination date for an interest period will be the second London business day preceding the first day of such interest period. Promptly upon determination, the calculation agent will inform the Trustee and us of the interest rate for the next interest period. Except in the case of manifest error, the determination of the interest rate by the calculation agent will be binding and conclusive on the holders of the 2014 Floating Rate Notes, the Trustee and us. A London business day is a day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
     Interest will be payable quarterly in arrears on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year commencing on July 1, 2011 to the person in whose name the notes (or any predecessor notes) are registered at the close of business on the business day immediately preceding such interest payment date. Interest on the 2014 Floating Rate Notes will accrue from and including March 31, 2011, to, but excluding, the first interest payment date and then from and including the immediately preceding interest payment date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for to, but excluding, the next interest payment date or maturity date, as the case may be. We refer to each of these periods as an "interest period." The amount of accrued interest that we will pay for any interest period will be calculated by multiplying the face amount of the 2014 Floating Rate Notes then outstanding by an accrued interest factor. The accrued interest factor will be computed by adding the interest factor calculated for each day from March 31, 2011, or from the last interest payment date, to the date for which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor for each day will be computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to that day by 360. If an interest payment date for the 2014 Floating Rate Notes falls on a day that is not a business day, the interest payment date will be postponed to the next succeeding business day unless such next succeeding business day would be in the following month, in which case the interest payment date will be the immediately preceding business day.
     On any interest determination date, LIBOR will be equal to the offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having an index maturity of three months, in amounts of at least $1,000,000, as such rate appears on "Reuters Page LIBOR01" at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such interest determination date. If on an interest determination date, such rate does not appear on "Reuters Page LIBOR01" at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, or if "Reuters Page LIBOR01" is not available on such date, the calculation agent will obtain such rate from Bloomberg L.P.'s page "BBAM."
     If no offered rate appears on "Reuters Page LIBOR01" or Bloomberg L.P.'s page "BBAM" on an interest determination date at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, then the calculation agent (after consultation with us) will select four major banks in the London interbank market and will request each of their principal London offices to provide a quotation of the rate at which three-month deposits in U.S. dollars in amounts of at least $1,000,000 are offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market, on that date and at that time, that is representative of single transactions at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the calculation agent will select three major banks in New York City and will request each of them to provide a quotation of the rate offered by them at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the interest determination date for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having an index maturity of three months for the applicable interest period in an amount of at least $1,000,000 that is representative of single transactions at that time. If three quotations are provided, LIBOR will be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the rate of LIBOR for the next interest period will be set equal to the rate of LIBOR for the then current interest period.
 
     Upon request from any holder of 2014 Floating Rate Notes, the calculation agent will provide the interest rate in effect for the 2014 Floating Rate Notes for the current interest period and, if it has been determined, the interest rate to be in effect for the next interest period.
     All percentages resulting from any calculation of the interest rate on the 2014 Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point with five one-millionths of a percentage point rounded upwards (e.g., 9.876545% (or .09876545) would be rounded to 9.87655% (or .0987655)), and all dollar amounts used in or resulting from such calculation on the 2014 Floating Rate Notes will be rounded to the nearest cent (with one-half cent being rounded upward). Each calculation of the interest rate on the 2014 Floating Rate Notes by the calculation agent will (in absence of manifest error) be final and binding on the holders and us. The interest rate on the 2014 Floating Rate Notes will in no event be higher than the maximum rate permitted by New York law as the same may be modified by United States law of general application.
     
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
     
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at . Alternatively, any of the Representatives can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling:
www.sec.gov
BNP Paribas Securities Corp. toll free at 1-800-854-5674
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. toll free at 1-800-503-4611
UBS Securities LLC toll-free at 1-877-827-6444 (ext. 561-3884)
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll-free at 1-800-326-5897
 
 
     
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
     
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, any of the Representatives can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling:
BNP Paribas Securities Corp. toll free at 1-800-854-5674
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. toll free at 1-800-503-4611
UBS Securities LLC toll-free at 1-877-827-6444 (ext. 561-3884)
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll-free at 1-800-326-5897
 
 
     
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
     
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, any of the Representatives can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling:
BNP Paribas Securities Corp. toll free at 1-800-854-5674
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. toll free at 1-800-503-4611
UBS Securities LLC toll-free at 1-877-827-6444 (ext. 561-3884)
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll-free at 1-800-326-5897
 
 
     
A securities rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time.
     
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC web site at . Alternatively, any of the Representatives can arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling:
www.sec.gov
BNP Paribas Securities Corp. toll free at 1-800-854-5674
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. toll free at 1-800-503-4611
UBS Securities LLC toll-free at 1-877-827-6444 (ext. 561-3884)
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll-free at 1-800-326-5897

Exhibit 4.1
     This FOURTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated March 31, 2011 (this ""), is made and entered into between Dell Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association organized under the laws of the United States of America (the ""). Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined have the meanings set forth in the Indenture referred to below.
Supplemental Indenture
Company
Trustee
     A. ARTICLE NINE of the Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2009, between the Company and the Trustee (the "") provides that, without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into a supplemental indenture to the Indenture to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series.
Indenture
     B. The Company desires to issue $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 2.100% Notes due 2014 (the ""), $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.100% Notes due 2016 (the ""), $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.625% Notes due 2021 (the "" and together with the 2014 Notes and the 2016 Notes, the "") and $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Notes due 2014 (the "" and together with the Fixed Rate Notes, the ""), and in connection therewith, the Company has duly determined to make, execute and deliver to the Trustee this Supplemental Indenture to set forth the terms and provisions of each series of Notes as required by the Indenture.
2014 Notes
2016 Notes
2021 Notes
Fixed Rate Notes
Floating Rate Notes
Notes
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements and covenants set forth herein, the parties hereto agree, subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, as follows for the benefit of the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes:
     Section 1. . Pursuant to Section 301 of the Indenture, the terms and provisions of the Notes are as follows:
Notes
     (a) . The title of the 2014 Notes shall be "2.100% Notes due 2014," the title of the 2016 Notes shall be "3.100% Notes due 2016," the title of the 2021 Notes shall be "4.625% Notes due 2021" and the title of the Floating Rate Notes shall be "Floating Rate Notes due 2014."
Title
     (b) . The 2014 Notes shall be initially limited to $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the 2014 Notes, increase such aggregate principal amount in the future, on the same terms and conditions, except for any differences in the issue price and interest accrued prior to the issue date of the additional 2014 Notes, and with the same CUSIP number as the 2014 Notes. The Company shall not issue any such additional 2014 Notes unless the additional 2014 Notes are fungible with the 2014 Notes for United States federal income tax purposes.
Aggregate Principal Amount
     The 2016 Notes shall be initially limited to $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the 2016 Notes, increase such aggregate principal amount in the future, on the same terms and conditions, except for any differences in the issue price and interest accrued prior to the issue date of the additional 2016 Notes, and with the same CUSIP number as the 2016 Notes. The Company shall not issue any such additional 2016 Notes unless the additional 2016 Notes are fungible with the 2016 Notes for United States federal income tax purposes.
 
     The 2021 Notes shall be initially limited to $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the 2021 Notes, increase such aggregate principal amount in the future, on the same terms and conditions, except for any differences in the issue price and interest accrued prior to the issue date of the additional 2021 Notes, and with the same CUSIP number as the 2021 Notes. The Company shall not issue any such additional 2021 Notes unless the additional 2021 Notes are fungible with the 2021 Notes for United States federal income tax purposes.
     The Floating Rate Notes shall be initially limited to $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount. The Company may, without the consent of the Holders of the Floating Rate Notes, increase such aggregate principal amount in the future, on the same terms and conditions, except for any differences in the issue price and interest accrued prior to the issue date of the additional Floating Rate Notes, and with the same CUSIP number as the Floating Rate Notes. The Company shall not issue any such additional Floating Rate Notes unless the additional Floating Rate Notes are fungible with the Floating Rate Notes for United States federal income tax purposes.
     (c) . The price at which the 2014 Notes shall be issued to the public is 99.968%, the price at which the 2016 Notes shall be issued to the public is 99.899%, the price at which the 2021 Notes shall be issued to the public is 99.541% and the price at which the Floating Rate Notes shall be issued to the public is 100.000%.
Price
     (d) . The Stated Maturity for the 2014 Notes shall be on April 1, 2014, the Stated Maturity for the 2016 Notes shall be on April 1, 2016, the Stated Maturity for the 2021 Notes shall be on April 1, 2021 and the Stated Maturity for the Floating Rate Notes shall be on April 1, 2014. No series of Notes shall require any principal or premium payments prior to the Stated Maturity for such series of Notes.
Stated Maturity
     (e) .
Interest Rate
      The rate at which the 2014 Notes shall bear interest shall be 2.100% per annum, the rate at which the 2016 Notes shall bear interest shall be 3.100% per annum, and the rate at which the 2021 Notes shall bear interest shall be 4.625% per annum. Interest on the Fixed Rate Notes shall accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid, or, if no interest has been paid, from March 31, 2011. Each April 1 or October 1 in each year, commencing October 1, 2011, shall be an Interest Payment Date for the Fixed Rate Notes. The March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding an Interest Payment Date shall be the Regular Record Date for the Fixed Rate Notes for the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date.
.
Fixed Rate Notes
      The Floating Rate Notes shall bear interest for each interest period at a rate determined by the calculation agent. The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. shall be the calculation agent until such time, if any, as the Company appoints a successor calculation agent. The interest rate on the Floating Rate Notes for a particular interest period shall be a per annum rate equal to three-month USD LIBOR as determined on the interest determination date plus 0.60%. The interest determination date for an interest period shall be the second London business day preceding the first day of such interest period. Promptly upon determination, the calculation agent shall inform the Trustee and the Company of the interest rate for the next interest period. Absent manifest error, the determination of the interest rate by the calculation agent shall be binding and conclusive on the holders of the Floating Rate Notes, the Trustee and the Company. A London business day is a day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
.
Floating Rate Notes
     Interest on the Floating Rate Notes shall be paid to, but excluding, the relevant Interest Payment Date. Interest payments on the Floating Rate Notes shall be made quarterly in arrears on January 1
,
 
April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on July 1, 2011, to the person in whose name the Floating Rate Notes (or one or more Predecessor Securities) are registered on the Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date for the Floating Rate Notes. The Regular Record Date for each Interest Payment Date for the Floating Rate Notes shall be the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the applicable Interest Payment Date. Interest on the Floating Rate Notes shall accrue from and including March 31, 2011 to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date and then from and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for to, but excluding, the next Interest Payment Date or date of Maturity, as the case may be. Each of these periods is referred to as an "interest period." The amount of accrued interest that the Company shall pay for any interest period shall be calculated by multiplying the face amount of the Floating Rate Notes then outstanding by an accrued interest factor. The accrued interest factor shall be computed by adding the interest factor calculated for each day from March 31, 2011, or from the latest date interest was paid to the date for which accrued interest is being calculated. The interest factor for each day shall be computed by dividing the interest rate applicable to that date by 360. If an Interest Payment Date for the Floating Rate Notes falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would be in the following month, in which case the Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day.
     On any interest determination date, LIBOR shall be equal to the offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having an index maturity of three months, in amounts of at least $1,000,000, as such rate appears on "Reuters Page LIBOR01" at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such interest determination date. If on an interest determination date, such rate does not appear on "Reuters Page LIBOR 01" at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, or if "Reuters Page LIBOR01" is not available on such date, the calculation agent shall obtain such rate from Bloomberg L.P.'s page "BBAM."
     If no offered rate appears on "Reuters Page LIBOR01" or Bloomberg L.P.'s page "BBAM" on an interest determination date at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, then the calculation agent (after consultation with the Company) shall select four major banks in the London interbank market and shall request each of their principal London offices to provide a quotation of the rate at which three-month deposits in U.S. dollars in amounts of at least $1,000,000 are offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market, on that date and at that time, that is representative of single transactions at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR shall be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the calculation agent shall select three major banks in New York City and shall request each of them to provide a quotation of the rate offered by them at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the interest determination date for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having an index maturity of three months for the applicable interest period in an amount of at least $1,000,000 that is representative of single transactions at that time. If three quotations are provided, LIBOR shall be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the rate of LIBOR for the next interest period shall be set equal to the rate of LIBOR for the then current interest period.
     Upon request from any holder of Floating Rate Notes, the calculation agent shall provide the interest rate in effect for the Floating Rate Notes for the current interest period and, if it has been determined, the interest rate to be in effect for the next interest period.
     All percentages resulting from any calculation of the interest rate on the Floating Rate Notes shall be rounded to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point with five one-millionths of a percentage point rounded upwards (e.g., 9.876545% (or .09876545) would be rounded to 9.87655% (or .0987655)), and all dollar amounts used in or resulting from such calculation on the Floating Rate Notes shall be rounded to the nearest cent (with one-half cent being rounded upward). Each calculation of the interest rate on the Floating Rate Notes by the calculation agent shall (in absence of manifest error) be final and binding on the Holders and the Company.
 
     The interest rate on the Floating Rate Notes shall in no event be higher than the maximum rate permitted by New York law as the same may be modified by United States law of general application.
     (f) . Payments of principal of and interest on the Notes represented by one or more Global Securities initially registered in the name of The Depository Trust Company (the "") or its nominee with respect to such Notes shall be made by the Company through the Trustee in immediately available funds to the Depositary or its nominee, as the case may be.
Payments
Depositary
     (g) . The Fixed Rate Notes shall be redeemable at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, at the Company's option in accordance with the terms and provisions set forth in hereof and (to the extent they do not conflict with hereof) the terms and provisions of ARTICLE ELEVEN of the Indenture.
Optional Redemption
Section 2
Section 2
     The Floating Rate Notes shall not be redeemable at the option of the Company prior to Maturity.
     (h) . There shall be no mandatory sinking fund for the payments of the Notes.
Sinking Fund
     (i) . ARTICLE EIGHT of the Indenture shall apply to the Notes.
Consolidation; Merger
     (j) . ARTICLE THIRTEEN of the Indenture shall apply to the Notes.
Defeasance
     (k) . Each series of Notes shall be represented by one or more Global Securities deposited with the Depositary and registered in the name of the nominee of the Depositary.
Global Securities
     (l) . The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. shall be the Trustee for the Notes under the Indenture.
Trustee
     (m) . With respect to the Notes, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Company's failure to comply with Section 314(a) of the Trust Indenture Act (relating to the filing of reports, information and other documents with the Commission) shall not constitute an Event of Default.
Filing of Reports
     (n) . With respect to the Notes and not to any other Securities that may be issued from time to time under the Indenture (unless specified in a supplemental indenture pertaining to such Securities), Section 704 of the Indenture is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
Amendment to Section 704
"Section 704. Reports by Company.
     The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, if any, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act; provided that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act shall be filed with the Trustee within 30 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission."
     (o) . To the extent not set forth otherwise herein, the provisions of Section 301 of the Indenture are applicable.
Section 301
     Section 2. .
Optional Redemption of the Fixed Rate Notes
 
     (a) The Fixed Rate Notes shall be redeemable, at any time in whole, or from time to time in part, at the Company's option, at a Redemption Price equal to the greater of:
     (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes to be redeemed; and
     (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Notes to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 12.5 basis points in the case of the 2014 Notes, 15 basis points in the case of the 2016 Notes and 20 basis points in the case of the 2021 Notes (the "");
Applicable Premium
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid on the Notes to be redeemed to the Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on applicable Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date shall be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
     (b) Unless the Company defaults in payment of the Redemption Price, on and after the Redemption Date, interest shall cease to accrue on the Fixed Rate Notes or portions thereof called for redemption. Notice of any redemption may, at the Company's discretion, be subject to one or more conditions precedent. A notice of redemption need not set forth the exact Redemption Price, but only the manner of calculation thereof.
     (c) The Applicable Premium shall be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company; provided, however, if the Company fails to make such appointment at least 45 Business Days prior to the Redemption Date, or if the institution so appointed is unwilling or unable to make such calculation, such calculation shall be made by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee.
     Section 3. .
Definitions
     (a) "" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the applicable Fixed Rate Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Fixed Rate Notes.
Comparable Treasury Issue
     (b) "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, (i) the average of four Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such Redemption Date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Quotation Agent obtains fewer than four such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
Comparable Treasury Price
     (c) "" means each Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
Quotation Agent
     (d) "" means (i) BNP Paribas Securities Corp., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., UBS Securities LLC (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and a Primary Treasury Dealer selected by Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in the
Reference Treasury Dealer
 
United States (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company shall substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer, and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company.
     (e) "" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any Redemption Date, the average, as determined by the Quotation Agent, of the bid and asked prices for the applicable Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Quotation Agent by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding such Redemption Date.
Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations
     (f) "" means, with respect to any Redemption Date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the applicable Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for such Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the applicable Comparable Treasury Price for such Redemption Date.
Treasury Rate
     Section 4. . This Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
     Section 5. . This Supplemental Indenture shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Governing Law
     Section 6. . The recitals contained herein and in the Notes, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or of the Notes. The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of the Notes or the proceeds thereof.
Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Notes
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be signed on their behalf by their duly authorized representatives as of the date first above written:

Exhibit 4.2
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
CUSIP NO: 24702RAR2
     DELL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $            on April 1, 2014 and to pay interest thereon from March 31, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, quarterly on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 in each year, commencing July 1, 2011 at a floating rate of interest as described on the reverse of this Security, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the Business Day immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
     Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made
 
at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in 101 Barclay Street 7 East, New York, NY, 10286, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. In the event the Global Security representing the Securities becomes exchangeable for definitive Securities pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
     So long as all of the Securities of this series are represented by Global Securities, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this Global Security shall be paid in same day funds to the Depositary, or to such name or entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depositary. If at any time the Securities of this series are no longer represented by the Global Securities and are issued in definitive form ("Certificated Securities"), then the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each Certificated Security at Maturity shall be paid in same day funds to the Holder upon surrender of such Certificated Security at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture, provided that such Certificated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, acting as Paying Agent, in time for the Paying Agent to make such payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payments of interest with respect to Certificated Securities other than at Maturity may, at the option of the Company, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it appears on the Security Register on the relevant Regular or Special Record Date or by wire transfer in same day funds to such account as may have been appropriately designated to the Paying Agent by such Person in writing not later than such relevant Regular or Special Record Date.
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated:
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2009 (herein called the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated March 31, 2011 between the Company and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in initial aggregate amount to $300,000,000.
     This Security shall bear interest for each interest period at a rate determined by the calculation agent, which shall be The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. until such time, if any, as the Company appoints a successor calculation agent (herein called the "Calculation Agent," which term includes any successor Calculation Agent under the Indenture). The interest rate on the Securities for a particular Interest Period (as defined below) shall be a per annum rate equal to three-month USD LIBOR (as defined below) as determined on the Interest Determination Date plus 0.60% (the "Interest Rate"). The "Interest Determination Date" for an Interest Period shall be the second London Business Day preceding the first day of such Interest Period. Promptly upon determination, the Calculation Agent shall inform the Trustee and the Company of the Interest Rate for the next Interest Period. Absent manifest error, the determination of the Interest Rate by the Calculation Agent shall be binding and conclusive on the holders of this Security, the Trustee and the Company. A London Business Day is a day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
     Interest on the Securities shall be paid to but excluding the relevant Interest Payment Date. Interest payments on the Securities shall be made quarterly in arrears on the Interest Payment Date, beginning on July 1, 2011 to the person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Business Day immediately preceding the Interest Payment Date. Interest on this Security shall accrue from and including March 31, 2011, to but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date and then from and including the immediately preceding Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for to, but excluding, the next Interest Payment Date or date of Maturity, as the case may be (each of these periods is referred to as an "Interest Period"). The amount of accrued interest that the Company shall pay for any Interest Period shall be calculated by the Calculation Agent by multiplying the face amount of the Securities then outstanding by an "Accrued Interest Factor." The Accrued Interest Factor shall be computed by adding the Interest Factor calculated for each day from March 31, 2011, or from the latest date interest was paid to the date for which accrued interest is being calculated. The "Interest Factor" for each day shall be computed by dividing the Interest Rate applicable to that date by 360. If an Interest Payment Date for the Securities falls on a day that is not a Business Day, the Interest Payment Date shall be postponed to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would be in the following month, in which case the Interest Payment Date shall be the immediately preceding Business Day.
     On any Interest Determination Date, "LIBOR" shall be equal to the offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars having an index maturity of three months, in amounts of at least $1,000,000, as such rate appears on "Reuters Page LIBOR01" at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on such Interest
 
Determination Date. If on an Interest Determination Date, such rate does not appear on "Reuters Page LIBOR01" at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, or if "Reuters Page LIBOR01" is not available on such date, the Calculation Agent shall obtain such rate from Bloomberg L.P.'s page "BBAM." If no offered rate appears on "Reuters Page LIBOR01" or Bloomberg L.P.'s page "BBAM" on an Interest Determination Date at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, then the Calculation Agent (after consultation with the Company) shall select four major banks in the London interbank market and shall request each of their principal London offices to provide a quotation of the rate at which three-month deposits in U.S. dollars in amounts of at least $1,000,000 are offered by it to prime banks in the London interbank market, on that date and at that time, that is representative of single transactions at that time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR shall be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the Calculation Agent shall select three major banks in New York City and shall request each of them to provide a quotation of the rate offered by them at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Interest Determination Date for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks having an index maturity of three months for the applicable interest period in an amount of at least $1,000,000 that is representative of single transactions at that time. If three quotations are provided, LIBOR shall be the arithmetic average of the quotations provided. Otherwise, the rate of LIBOR for the next Interest Period shall be set equal to the rate of LIBOR for the then current Interest Period.
     Upon request from any holder of Securities, the Calculation Agent shall provide the Interest Rate in effect for the Securities for the current Interest Period and, if it has been determined, the Interest Rate to be in effect for the next Interest Period.
     All percentages resulting from any calculation of the Interest Rate on the Securities shall be rounded to the nearest one hundred-thousandth of a percentage point with five one-millionths of a percentage point rounded upwards (e.g., 9.876545% (or .09876545) would be rounded to 9.87655% (or .0987655)), and all dollar amounts used in or resulting from such calculation on the Securities shall be rounded to the nearest cent (with one-half cent being rounded upward). Each calculation of the Interest Rate on the Securities by the Calculation Agent shall (in absence of manifest error) be final and binding on the Holders and the Company.
     The Interest Rate on the Securities shall in no event be higher than the maximum permitted rate by New York law as the same may be modified by United States law of general application.
     The Company shall not be entitled to redeem the Securities prior to Maturity.
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
     Each of the defeasance and covenant defeasance provisions of ARTICLE THIRTEEN of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in a form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     This Security shall for all purposes be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
     The terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 4.3
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
CUSIP NO: 24702RAN1
     DELL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $            on April 1, 2014 and to pay interest thereon from March 31, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year, commencing October 1, 2011 at the rate of 2.100% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a
 
Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
     Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in 101 Barclay Street 7 East, New York, NY, 10286, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. In the event the Global Security representing the Securities becomes exchangeable for definitive Securities pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
     So long as all of the Securities of this series are represented by Global Securities, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this Global Security shall be paid in same day funds to the Depositary, or to such name or entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depositary. If at any time the Securities of this series are no longer represented by the Global Securities and are issued in definitive form ("Certificated Securities"), then the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each Certificated Security at Maturity shall be paid in same day funds to the Holder upon surrender of such Certificated Security at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture, provided that such Certificated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, acting as Paying Agent, in time for the Paying Agent to make such payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payments of interest with respect to Certificated Securities other than at Maturity may, at the option of the Company, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it appears on the Security Register on the relevant Regular or Special Record Date or by wire transfer in same day funds to such account as may have been appropriately designated to the Paying Agent by such Person in writing not later than such relevant Regular or Special Record Date.
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated:
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2009 (herein called the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated March 31, 2011 between the Company and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in initial aggregate amount to $400,000,000.
     Except as set forth below, the Company shall not be entitled to redeem the Securities.
     The Securities shall be redeemable, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the Company's option, at a Redemption Price at any time equal to the greater of:
          (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Security to be redeemed; and
          (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Security to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Security to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 12.5 basis points;
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid on the Security to be redeemed to the Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Securities that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
     In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of
 
the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     Each of the defeasance and covenant defeasance provisions of ARTICLE THIRTEEN of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in a form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     This Security shall for all purposes be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
     The terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 4.4
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
CUSIP NO: 24702RAP6
     DELL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $            on April 1, 2016 and to pay interest thereon from March 31, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year, commencing October 1, 2011 at the rate of 3.100% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a
 
Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
     Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in 101 Barclay Street 7 East, New York, NY, 10286, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. In the event the Global Security representing the Securities becomes exchangeable for definitive Securities pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
     So long as all of the Securities of this series are represented by Global Securities, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this Global Security shall be paid in same day funds to the Depositary, or to such name or entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depositary. If at any time the Securities of this series are no longer represented by the Global Securities and are issued in definitive form ("Certificated Securities"), then the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each Certificated Security at Maturity shall be paid in same day funds to the Holder upon surrender of such Certificated Security at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture, provided that such Certificated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, acting as Paying Agent, in time for the Paying Agent to make such payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payments of interest with respect to Certificated Securities other than at Maturity may, at the option of the Company, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it appears on the Security Register on the relevant Regular or Special Record Date or by wire transfer in same day funds to such account as may have been appropriately designated to the Paying Agent by such Person in writing not later than such relevant Regular or Special Record Date.
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated:
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2009 (herein called the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated March 31, 2011 between the Company and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in initial aggregate amount to $400,000,000.
     Except as set forth below, the Company shall not be entitled to redeem the Securities.
     The Securities shall be redeemable, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the Company's option, at a Redemption Price at any time equal to the greater of:
          (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Security to be redeemed; and
          (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Security to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Security to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 15 basis points;
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid on the Security to be redeemed to the Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Securities that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
     In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of
 
the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     Each of the defeasance and covenant defeasance provisions of ARTICLE THIRTEEN of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in a form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     This Security shall for all purposes be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
     The terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 4.5
     UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY, A NEW YORK CORPORATION ("DTC"), NEW YORK, NEW YORK, TO THE COMPANY OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE, OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR IN SUCH OTHER NAME AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR TO SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS IS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.
     TRANSFERS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS IN WHOLE, BUT NOT IN PART, TO NOMINEES OF DTC OR TO A SUCCESSOR THEREOF OR SUCH SUCCESSOR'S NOMINEE AND TRANSFERS OF PORTIONS OF THIS GLOBAL SECURITY SHALL BE LIMITED TO TRANSFERS MADE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THE INDENTURE REFERRED TO ON THE REVERSE HEREOF.
CUSIP NO: 24702RAQ4
     DELL INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $        on April 1, 2021 and to pay interest thereon from March 31, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on April 1 and October 1 in each year, commencing October 1, 2011 at the rate of 4.625% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a
 
Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in the Indenture.
     Payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Trustee maintained for that purpose in 101 Barclay Street 7 East, New York, NY, 10286, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts. In the event the Global Security representing the Securities becomes exchangeable for definitive Securities pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
     So long as all of the Securities of this series are represented by Global Securities, the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on this Global Security shall be paid in same day funds to the Depositary, or to such name or entity as is requested by an authorized representative of the Depositary. If at any time the Securities of this series are no longer represented by the Global Securities and are issued in definitive form ("Certificated Securities"), then the principal of, premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each Certificated Security at Maturity shall be paid in same day funds to the Holder upon surrender of such Certificated Security at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, or at such other place or places as may be designated in or pursuant to the Indenture, provided that such Certificated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, acting as Paying Agent, in time for the Paying Agent to make such payments in such funds in accordance with its normal procedures. Payments of interest with respect to Certificated Securities other than at Maturity may, at the option of the Company, be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it appears on the Security Register on the relevant Regular or Special Record Date or by wire transfer in same day funds to such account as may have been appropriately designated to the Paying Agent by such Person in writing not later than such relevant Regular or Special Record Date.
     Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
     Unless the certificate of authentication hereof has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal.
Dated:
 
     This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
     This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2009 (herein called the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated March 31, 2011 between the Company and the Trustee (the "Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all other indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in initial aggregate amount to $400,000,000.
     Except as set forth below, the Company shall not be entitled to redeem the Securities.
     The Securities shall be redeemable, at any time in whole or from time to time in part, at the Company's option, at a Redemption Price at any time equal to the greater of:
          (i) 100% of the principal amount of the Security to be redeemed; and
          (ii) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Security to be redeemed from the Redemption Date to the Stated Maturity of the Security to be redeemed (exclusive of any interest accrued to the Redemption Date), discounted to the Redemption Date on a semi-annual basis assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, at the Treasury Rate plus 20 basis points;
plus, in each case, any interest accrued but not paid on the Security to be redeemed to the Redemption Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Securities that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a Redemption Date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant Regular Record Date.
     In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof.
     If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
     The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of
 
the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
     Each of the defeasance and covenant defeasance provisions of ARTICLE THIRTEEN of the Indenture shall apply to this Security.
     No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
     As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in a form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
     The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
     No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
     Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
     This Security shall for all purposes be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
     The terms used in this Security that are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.

Exhibit 5.1
Board of Directors Dell Inc. One Dell Way Round Rock, Texas 78682
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     We are acting as counsel to Dell Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with its registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-155041) (as amended, the "Registration Statement") previously declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") relating to the public offering of debt securities of the Company that may be offered and sold by the Company from time to time as set forth in the prospectus dated March 14, 2011 (the "Prospectus"), and as may be set forth from time to time in one or more supplements to the Prospectus. This opinion letter is rendered in connection with the proposed public offering of up to $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's Floating Rate Notes due 2014 (the "Floating Rate Notes"), $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 2.100% Notes due 2014 (the "2014 Notes"), $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.100% Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes") and $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.625% Notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes" and together with the Floating Rate Notes, the 2014 Notes and the 2016 Notes, the "Notes"), as described in a prospectus supplement dated March 28, 2011 (the "Prospectus Supplement"). The Notes will be issued pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated as of April 6, 2009, as supplemented by a Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated March 31, 2011 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "Trustee"). This opinion letter is furnished to you at your request to enable you to fulfill the requirements of Item 601(b)(5) of Regulation S-K, 17 C.F.R.  229.601(b)(5), in connection with the Registration Statement.
     For purposes of this opinion letter, we have examined copies of such agreements, instruments and documents as we have deemed an appropriate basis on which to render the opinions hereinafter expressed. In our examination of the aforesaid documents, we have assumed the genuineness of all signatures, the legal capacity of all natural persons, the accuracy
 
Board of Directors Dell Inc. March 31, 2011 Page 2
and completeness of all documents submitted to us, the authenticity of all original documents, and the conformity to authentic original documents of all documents submitted to us as copies (including telecopies). As to all matters of fact, we have relied on the representations and statements of fact made in the documents so reviewed, and have not independently established the facts so relied on. This opinion letter is given, and all statements herein are made, in the context of the foregoing.
     For purposes of this opinion letter, we have assumed that (i) the Trustee has all requisite power and authority under all applicable laws, regulations and governing documents to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under the Indenture and has complied with all legal requirements pertaining to its status as such status relates to its rights to enforce the Indenture against the Company, (ii) the Trustee has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Indenture, (iii) the Trustee is validly existing and in good standing in all necessary jurisdictions, (iv) the Indenture constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Trustee, enforceable against the Trustee in accordance with its terms, (v) there has been no material mutual mistake of fact or misunderstanding or fraud, duress or undue influence, in connection with the negotiation, execution and delivery of the Indenture and the conduct of all parties to the Indenture has complied with any requirements of good faith, fair dealing and conscionability, and (vi) there are and have been no agreements or understandings among the parties, written or oral, and there is and has been no usage of trade or course of prior dealing among the parties that would, in either case, define, supplement or qualify the terms of the Indenture. We have also assumed the validity and constitutionality of each relevant statute, rule, regulation and agency action covered by this opinion letter.
     This opinion letter is based as to matters of law solely on the applicable provisions of the following, as currently in effect: (i) the Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended; and (ii) the laws of the State of New York (but not including any laws, statutes, ordinances, administrative decisions, rules or regulations of any political subdivision below the state level). We express no opinion herein as to any other laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, or regulations. As used herein, the term "Delaware General Corporation Law, as amended" includes the statutory provisions contained therein, all applicable provisions of the Delaware Constitution and reported judicial decisions interpreting these laws.
     Based upon, subject to and limited by the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the Notes have been duly authorized on behalf of the Company and that, following (i) receipt by the Company of valid consideration therefor and (ii) the due execution, authentication, issuance and delivery of the Notes pursuant to the terms of the Indenture, the Notes will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company.
     In addition to the assumptions, qualifications, exceptions and limitations set forth elsewhere in this opinion letter, our opinions expressed above with respect to the valid and binding nature of obligations may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights (including, without limitation, the effect of statutory and other law regarding fraudulent conveyances, fraudulent transfers and
 
Board of Directors Dell Inc. March 31, 2011 Page 3
preferential transfers) and by the exercise of judicial discretion and the application of principles of equity, good faith, fair dealing, reasonableness, conscionability and materiality (regardless of whether the applicable agreements are considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
     This opinion letter has been prepared for use in connection with the filing by the Company with the Commission of a Current Report on Form 8-K relating to the issuance and sale of the Notes, which Current Report on Form 8-K will be incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement and Prospectus, as supplemented by the Prospectus Supplement. We assume no obligation to advise you of any changes in the foregoing subsequent to the delivery of this letter.
     We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as Exhibit 5.1 to the above-described Current Report on Form 8-K and to the reference to this firm under the caption "Legal Matters" in the Prospectus Supplement. In giving this consent, we do not thereby admit that we are an "expert" within the meaning of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Very truly yours,
/s/ HOGAN LOVELLS US LLP
HOGAN LOVELLS US LLP


