FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20111115161934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  November 15, 2011
________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 15, 2011, Dell Inc. (Dell) issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended October 28, 2011. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) which are furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP. A reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter ended October 28, 2011 and certain prior fiscal periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a discussion of Dell managements reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures, the material limitations associated with the use of the non-GAAP financial measures, and the manner in which Dell management compensates for those limitations is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this current report, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is being furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section. Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell herewith furnishes the following document as an exhibit to this report:
(d)  Exhibits
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Reports Strong Profitability in Third Quarter
Earnings per share of $0.49 (GAAP) and $0.54 (non-GAAP) up 17 and 20 percent, respectively; Operating Income up 12 percent (GAAP); up 10 percent (non-GAAP)
Enterprise solutions and services revenue at all-time high of $4.7 billion
Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $851 million and $5.2 billion for the past four quarters
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 15, 2011--Dells continued strategic focus on higher-value opportunities, combined with an increased mix of enterprise solutions and services sales, resulted in increased profitability on revenue of $15.4 billion in its third quarter, flat compared with revenue a year ago.
Our results this quarter and over the past year reflect a new Dell, one focused on providing our customers productivity-enhancing solutions either developed organically or acquired, said Michael Dell, chairman and CEO. Were now investing in research and development activities at almost a billion-dollar annual run rate and our earnings per share is up 86 percent over the last 12 months.
Revenue for Dells enterprise solutions and services business  including sales of servers, storage, networking, and services  increased 8 percent over the same quarter last year to $4.7 billion, an all-time high. As the revenue mix steadily shifts more to the higher-value enterprise portfolio, Dell is delivering on its commitment to improve profitability, with operating income up 12 percent for the quarter and at 7.6 percent of revenue for the fiscal year to date.
We delivered strong third-quarter results, maintaining our focus on operating income and improving our mix of higher-value enterprise solutions, said Brian Gladden, Dell chief financial officer. Consistent with our strategy and the investments we have made, we continued to see excellent momentum in our enterprise business, with double-digit revenue growth in services, servers and networking, and in key growth countries, despite some macroeconomic uncertainty.
Results:
in the quarter was $15.4 billion, flat compared with the same quarter last year.
Revenue
was 49 cents, up 17 percent; was 54 cents, up 20 percent.
GAAP earnings per share
non-GAAP EPS
was $1.1 billion, or 7.4 percent of revenue. was $1.3 billion, or 8.4 percent of revenue.
GAAP
operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
was $851 million for the quarter and $5.2 billion over the last four quarters. Dell ended the quarter with $16 billion in cash and investments and repurchased $600 million in stock in the quarter. For the year, Dell has spent $2.18 billion to purchase 142 million shares of Dell stock.
Cash flow from operations
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, certain settlement costs and acquisition-related charges. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Strategic Highlights:
Enterprise solutions and services revenue was $4.7 billion in the quarter and represented 31 percent of Dells revenue.
Server and networking revenue increased 13 percent year over year, driven by continued momentum in server virtualization. Dell is working with customers to provide mission-critical services and solutions around the server, creating competitive differentiation, richer configurations and stronger profitability.
Dell-branded storage revenue grew 23 percent year over year, driven by demand for EqualLogic and Compellent technology.
Dell Services revenue grew 10 percent to $2.1 billion and now represents 14 percent of Dells business. Dells total value of new services contracts signed for the past 12 months is $1.9 billion. Services backlog is now $15.5 billion, up 11 percent from a year ago.
Business Units and Regions:
had$4.5 billion of revenue,up 4 percent from a year ago on a 19 percent increase in revenue for servers and networking and a 14 percent increase in revenue for services. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was $1.9 billion. Operating income was $441 million, or 9.8 percent of revenue.
Large Enterprise
had $4.4 billion of revenue, down 2 percent from a year ago, and including an increase in services revenue of 7 percent. Operating income was $463 million or 10.6 percent of revenue. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was $1.6 billion. Spending was slow in U.S. federal and Western Europe. Customers continue to invest in our solutions to reduce spending and increase productivity.
Public
had revenue of $3.7 billion, up 1 percent. Operating income was $386 million or 10.4 percent of revenue. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was $1.1 billion, an all-time high, and up 18 percent, driven by a gain in servers of 18 percent, services of 23 percent, and storage of 9 percent.
Small and Medium Business
revenue was $2.8 billion, a 6 percent decline. Operating income was $76 million or 2.7 percent of revenue. The migration to higher-value products has proven to be effective, with overall company revenue for the high-end XPS consumer laptop growing 207 percent. XPS revenue now accounts for nearly 20 percent of Dells total consumer laptop business.
Consumer
, revenue ingrowth countries  defined as those outside the U.S., Canada, Western Europe and Japan  grew 11 percent in the third quarter and is up 14 percent for the fiscal year. These geographies account for 29 percent of Dells revenue. Regionally, Asia Pacific and Japan had the greatest revenue growth at 10 percent, led by Chinas 23 percent growth and Australia/New Zealands 13 percent increase. EMEA revenue increased 4 percent. Revenue in European growth countries increased 12 percent, led by the Czech Republic, Poland and Russia. Revenue in BRIC countries increased 14 percent.
Internationally
Company Outlook:
Dell has delivered $5.3 billion in operating income on a trailing, 12-month basis, and a 44-percent increase year-over-year on a non-GAAP basis. The company remains committed to its strategy and is on track to exceed its guidance of 17 to 23 percent full fiscal-year operating income growth.
Given the uncertain macroeconomic environment and complexity in working through the industry-wide hard drive issue, the company is trending to the lower end of the range of its revenue outlook of 1 to 5-percent full fiscal-year growth.
Results through Q3 show that Dell is on track for another outstanding year. The company has made significant progress in building a more diversified and competitive set of enterprise and services-focused businesses that now represent almost 50 percent of its margin.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services that give them the power to do more. For more information, visit . The third quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO; Brian Gladden, CFO; and Jeff Clarke, vice chairman, Global Operations & End User Computing Solutions, will be webcast live today at 4 p.m. CST and archived at . To monitor highlighted facts from the analyst call, follow on the Dell Investor Relations Twitter account at: or hashtag #DellEarnings. To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investor
http://twitter.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/dellshares
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively with non-GAAP gross margin and non-GAAP operating expenses, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and has presented a detailed discussion of its reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note on Forward Looking Statements
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells future financial and operating performance, trends relating to enterprise, solutions and services, Dells strategies and spending relating to investments and research and development, anticipated customer demand, global macroeconomic uncertainty, geographic trends, operating expense strategies, and hard drive and other component supply, as well as the financial guidance with respect to revenue and non-GAAP operating income) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: intense competition; Dells cost-cutting measures; Dells ability to effectively manage the growth of its distribution capabilities and add to its product and services offerings; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting Dells financial services activities; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; Dells ability to deliver consistent quality products and services; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; access to the capital markets by Dell or its customers; loss of government contracts; the risk of temporary suspension or debarment from contracting with U.S. federal, state and local governments as a result of settlements of an SEC investigation by Dell and Dells Chairman and CEO; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure disruptions or breaches of data security; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; counterparty default; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended Jan. 28, 2011. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to revenue and non-GAAP operating income for the full fiscal year ending Feb. 3, 2012 assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, that macroeconomic uncertainties do not materialize into significant economic difficulties, that Dell is able to adequately address hard drive supply challenges, no significant change in product mix patterns, continued geographic customer demand trends, continued successful demand planning and forecasting, no supply chain disruptions, and no significant adverse component pricing or supply movements. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Interest and other, net for the three months ended October 29, 2010 includes Dells receipt of a $72 million merger termination fee.
(1)
Interest and other, net for the nine months ended October 29, 2010 includes Dells receipt of a $72 million merger termination fee.
(1)
Other for the nine months ended October 29, 2010 includes amounts for the $100 million settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million settlement for a securities litigation matter.
(2)
Days of sales outstanding (DSO) is based on the ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in the other current assets. At October 28, 2011, July 29, 2011, and October 29, 2010, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 39 and 3 days, 39 and 3 days, 38 and 3 days, respectively.
(1)
SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The tables on the following pages set forth, for the periods indicated, a reconciliation of non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures) to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures following the tables for additional information regarding Dells reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and for material limitations with respect to the usefulness of these measures.
Other for the three months ended October 29, 2010 consists of Dell's receipt of a $72 million merger termination fee which on a GAAP basis is recorded in Interest and Other, Net.
(1)
Other for the nine months ended October 29, 2010 includes amounts for the $100 million settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million settlement for a securities litigation matter, which are both recorded in operating expenses, offset by Dell's receipt of a $72 million merger termination fee, which is recorded in Interest and Other, Net.
(1)
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Dell uses non-GAAP financial measures to supplement the financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better understand Dells consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of Dells segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of Dell's underlying operating performance. Dell also believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better project Dells future consolidated financial performance because Dells forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, Dell believes these non-GAAP financial measures will provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate Dell's operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of Dell's operating performance, and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. Non-GAAP operating income growth as projected for Fiscal 2012, which is a forward looking non-GAAP financial measure, excludes acquisition-related charges, and amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions, some of which Dell cannot forecast with certainty or accuracy due to their inherently indefinite and contingent nature, thereby preventing Dell from reconciling its projections to GAAP. The historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by Dell, represent the comparable GAAP measures adjusted to exclude these same items as well as amounts for severance and facility charges, which were incurred in periods prior to the second quarter of Fiscal 2012, the settlements related to the SEC investigation and a securities litigation matter, which were both incurred during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, and a merger termination fee, which was received during the third quarter of Fiscal 2011. Dell provides more detail below regarding each of these items and our reasons for excluding them. In future fiscal periods, Dell expects that it may again exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in Dells non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual.
The non-GAAP financial measures for the periods indicated in the tables above reflect adjustments related to the following items:
-- Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of retention payments, integration costs, and other costs. Starting in the second quarter of Fiscal 2012, all severance and facility charges related to acquisitions are also included in acquisition-related costs. Previously, these costs were included in a separate caption for severance and facility actions described below. Acquisition-related severance and facility costs were not significant in prior periods. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs primarily include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of employees, costs related to full-time employees who are working on the integration, and consulting expenses. Acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of acquisitions. Therefore, although Dell may incur these types of expenses in connection with future acquisitions, Dell believes eliminating acquisition-related charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Acquisition-related Costs
-- Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, acquired technology, non-compete covenants, and trade names purchased in connection with business acquisitions. Dell incurs charges relating to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in Dells consolidated financial statements. Amortization charges for Dells purchased intangible assets are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of Dells acquisitions. Consequently, Dell excludes these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Amortization of Intangible Assets
-- Severance and facility action costs primarily relate to facilities charges including accelerated depreciation and severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs, which started in Fiscal 2009. These activities are substantially complete. As such, starting in the second quarter of Fiscal 2012, only charges for severance and facility actions associated with cost synergies related to strategic acquisitions are being excluded for the purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures and will be included in acquisition-related costs discussed above. Dell excludes these severance and facility action costs for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes that these historical costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance or comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Severance and Facility Actions
-- Dell also adjusts its GAAP results for certain fees and settlements. During the third quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell received $72 million from 3PAR inc ("3PAR") for 3PAR's termination of its merger agreement with Dell. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell recorded a $100 million settlement amount for the SEC investigation into certain of Dell's accounting and financial matters, which was initiated in 2005, and also incurred $40 million for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against Dell during Fiscal 2007. Dell is excluding these fees and settlements from the operating results of Fiscal 2011 for the purpose of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes these settlements are outside Dells ordinary course of business and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance.
Other Fees and Settlements
The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. The tax effects are determined based on the tax jurisdictions where the above items were incurred.
There are limitations to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Dell's non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in Dells industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently than Dell does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Further, items such as severance and facility action costs and acquisition expenses that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Dells management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying on Dells GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP measures are not available. The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as substitutes for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell provides detailed reconciliations of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within the financial information included with this press release and in other written materials that include such non-GAAP historical financial measures, and Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of any historical non-GAAP financial measures.
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or Michael McMullen, 512-724-4448 or David Mehok, 512-728-4225
Media Contacts: (512) 728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com
michael_mcmullen@dell.com
david_mehok@dell.com


