FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20110113152100.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02  Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
          (b) and (c) On January 10, 2011, Dell Inc. ("Dell") named Steve Schuckenbrock as President, Dell Services, to succeed Peter Altabef in that position effective on such date. Mr Altabef will remain employed with Dell as an executive leader in Dell Services until March 31, 2011 while he assists in the transition.
          Mr. Schuckenbrock, age 50, joined Dell in January 2007 as Senior Vice President and President, Global Services. In September 2007, he assumed the additional role of Chief Information Officer, and served in those roles until January 2009, when he assumed his position as President, Large Enterprise. In those roles, Mr. Shuckenbrock was responsible for all aspects of our services business, with worldwide responsibility for Dell enterprise service offerings, and was also responsible for Dell's global information systems and technology structure. Prior to joining Dell in 2007, Mr. Schuckenbrock served as Co-Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President of Global Sales and Services for Electronic Data Systems Corporation ("EDS"). Before joining EDS in 2003, he was Chief Operating Officer of The Feld Group, an information technology consulting organization. Mr. Schuckenbrock served as Global Chief Information Officer at PepsiCo from 1995 to 2000. Mr. Schuckenbrock earned a Bachelor's degree in Business Administration from Elon University.
          (e) On January 122011, Mr. Altabef and Dell entered into a Separation Agreement and Release (the "Separation Agreement"), dated as of such date, in connection with Mr. Altabef's departure from Dell as described in Item 5.02(b) of this report. On or after March 31, 2011, under the terms of the Separation Agreement and consistent with Dell's standard executive severance package, Mr. Altabef will receive a lump-sum severance payment of $1.35 million, an incentive plan payment of 455,470 shares of Dell common stock and a payment of $10,000 related to health insurance costs. Mr. Altabef also will receive his vested balances in any Dell benefit plan consistent with the provisions of each such plan.
,
          The foregoing description of the Separation Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Separation Agreement, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference
Item 7.01  Regulation FD Disclosure.
          A copy of the press release announcing the matters described in Items 5.02(b) and (c) of this report, as well as other organizational changes at Dell, is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
The following documents are hereby furnished or filed as exhibits to this report:
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 10.1
     This Separation Agreement and Release ("Agreement") sets forth the mutual agreement of Dell Inc., for itself and its subsidiaries (collectively, "Dell") and Peter Altabef ("Executive") regarding the subject matters addressed below.
     Executive's employment with Dell will end March 31, 2011 ("Separation Date"). Until the Separation Date, Executive will serve in a transitional role and Executive's primary responsibilities will be to complete and/or assist in the transition of ongoing projects as requested by Steve Schuckenbrock. During this period, Executive will act in a professional manner and abide by the Non-Disparagement provision stated below. Nothing in this Agreement confers upon Executive a right to be a continuing employee of Dell, or imposes on Dell an obligation to continue Executive's employment relationship, if Executive violates any of the terms of this Agreement, any of the provisions of Executive's employment or other agreements with Dell, or Dell's Code of Conduct or any other Dell policy generally applicable to employees of Executive's level and position.
1. Separation Date.
     If Executive signs this Agreement and does not revoke it, Dell will provide Executive with the following good and valuable consideration. Executive agrees that, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement and Dell's benefit plans, Executive is not entitled to receive from Dell the payment or distribution of any amounts of pay (including bonuses), benefits, cash, stock, stock options or other type of property. Executive agrees that Dell may withhold all taxes it determines it is legally required to withhold from any payments set forth herein, and acknowledges that Executive is responsible for paying any taxes on amounts Executive receives because Executive signed this Agreement.
2. Consideration from Dell.
 
     . Executive understands and agrees that balances or vested balances Executive has in any Dell benefit plan will be available to Executive consistent with applicable laws, regulations, and the administrative provisions of the various plan documents. Executive further understands that Executive will not receive any grants of stock, stock units, or options from Dell in the future and that any current stock options, stock units, or restricted stock will expire or be exercisable in accordance with the terms and provisions of the applicable equity agreements and the Dell Incentive Plan(s). As of the date of this Agreement, Dell is not aware of Executive engaging any "Conduct Detrimental to the Company" as that term is defined in the Stock Unit Agreement and the Rollover Stock Unit Agreement
3
Treatment of Employee Benefits including Stock and Stock Options.
     Executive hereby fully releases Dell and all of its owners, partners, shareholders, predecessors, successors, assigns, agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives, attorneys, subsidiaries, joint ventures, and affiliates (and agents, directors, officers, employees, representatives, and attorneys of such subsidiaries and affiliates) (collectively, "Released Parties"), from any and all known or unknown claims or demands Executive may have against any of them. Executive expressly waives and opts out of all claims, whether asserted on an individual or class action basis, against any Released Party including but not limited to all claims arising out of any contract, express or implied, and whether executory or not, any covenant of good faith and fair dealing, express or implied, any tort , and any federal, state, or other governmental statute, regulation, or ordinance, including, without limitation, those relating to qui tam, employment discrimination, termination of employment, payment of wages or provision of benefits, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as amended, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act ("OWBPA"), the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification ("WARN") Act, the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act ("COBRA"), and the Occupational Safety and Health Act. Executive
4. Complete Release.
(whether intentional or negligent, including claims arising out of the negligence or gross negligence of any Released Party and claims of express or implied defamation by any Released Party)
 
represents that Executive has not assigned to any other person any of such claims and that Executive has the full right to grant this release. Notwithstanding any other provision herein, Dell and Executive agree that Executive is not waiving any claims that may arise in the future under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, any claim for benefits under Dell's health and welfare or retirement benefit plans, or any future claims based on Dell's obligations and agreements set forth in this Agreement, nor does this release prevent Executive from participating in a Government investigation.
Further, nothing herein shall release, waive or otherwise affect Executive's rights or claims to indemnification under the Indemnification Agreement, effective January 1, 2010, by and between Dell and Executive, the laws of the State of Delaware, Dell's Bylaws or Certificate of Incorporation, or under any other applicable agreement, statute, common law or insurance policy.
Dell hereby releases Executive from any and all known or unknown claims or demands Dell may have against Executive, with the exception of any claims or demands for intentional misconduct or fraud.
     Executive understands and agrees that the complete release in paragraph 4 above also includes claims made under the California Fair Employment and Housing Act and California Labor Code Section 970-972, etc. Executive expressly waives all the rights and benefits of Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, which section reads as follows:
5. Claims under California Law.
     Executive represents, warrants, and agrees that all forms of compensation and other monies, including paychecks, paid to Executive by Dell to date have been accurately calculated, have represented the proper amounts due to Executive, and have been based on Dell's merit-based compensation system. The consideration set forth in this Agreement is in excess of what Executive is entitled to receive. If Executive or someone on Executive's behalf claims any entitlement to further compensation from Dell, Executive agrees that Dell is entitled to full offset of the amounts set forth in this Agreement.
6. Compensation Paid.
     By entering into this Agreement, neither Dell nor Executive admit any liability or wrongdoing.
7. Non-Admission of Liability.
     Executive agrees that Executive has no right to future employment at Dell and that should Executive seek employment with Dell in the future, any decision regarding rehire is at Dell's sole discretion.
8. Future Employment.
     Executive agrees that, on or before the Separation Date, Executive will have returned to Dell any and all documents relating to Dell or its business operations (and any and all copies thereof, whether in paper form or
9. Company Documents, Information, or Property.
 
electronic form), computer equipment, badges, credit cards, and any other Dell property in Executive's possession or control. Executive represents and agrees that Executive will not take, nor has Executive taken, any such documents or property from the control or premises of Dell and that if, at any time after the Separation Date, Executive should come into possession of any such documents or property, Executive will return such documents or property to Dell immediately.
     Executive agrees that, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, the provisions of Executive's Dell Employment Agreement, any performance-based stock unit agreements, stock option agreements, restricted stock agreements, and confidentiality or non-competition agreements that Executive previously entered into with Dell, and that are intended to survive Executive's termination, remain in full force and effect. Moreover, as a material inducement to Dell to enter into this Agreement, Executive reaffirms Executive's intent to cornply with Executive's post-employment obligations to Dell under the foregoing agreements.
10. Employment and Other Agreements.
     Executive agrees that, except as may be required by law or court order Executive will not, directly or indirectly, make any statement, oral or written, or perform any act or omission which is or could be detrimental in any material respect to the reputation or goodwill of Dell or any other Released Party. Executive understands that Executive's compliance with a subpoena or other legally compulsive process or Executive's participation or testimony as a witness in any lawsuit will not be a violation of this provision.
11. Non-disparagement.
     Executive agrees that, upon reasonable notice, Executive will give Dell Executive's full cooperation in connection with any claims, lawsuits, or proceedings that relate in any manner to Executive's conduct or duties at Dell or that are based on facts about which Executive obtained personal knowledge while employed at Dell. In return, Dell agrees to reimburse Executive for direct and reasonable out of pocket expenses (including reasonable attorney's fees) incurred with respect to rendering such cooperation.
12. Cooperation.
     THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE INTERPRETED IN ALL RESPECTS BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF TEXAS, AND THE VENUE FOR THE RESOLUTION OF ANY DISPUTES (LOCATION OF ANY LAWSUIT) SHALL BE SOLELY IN THE STATE AND FEDERAL COURTS OF WILLIAMSON COUNTY, TEXAS.
13. Applicable Law and Venue.
     The fact that one or more paragraphs (or portion thereof) of this Agreement may be deemed invalid or unenforceable by any court shall not invalidate the remaining paragraphs or portions of such paragraphs of this Agreement.
14. Severability.
     Executive acknowledges that Executive is signing this Agreement voluntarily with full knowledge of its contents. If Executive decides not to sign this Agreement, Dell will not retaliate against Executive. Executive is not relying on any promise or representation not specifically and explicitly made in this Agreement. This Agreement may not be amended or modified except by a written agreement signed by Executive and an authorized officer of Dell. Executive understands that any changes that the parties agree to make to this Agreement after it has been presented to Executive, whether such changes are
15. Certain Acknowledgments.
 
material or non-material, will not extend the amount of time Executive has to consider the Agreement.
     Executive understands that Executive may take up to 21 days to consider this Agreement. Executive understands that Executive may use as much or as little of this period as Executive chooses before signing the Agreement. Executive is advised to consult with an attorney before signing this Agreement. If Executive accepts this Agreement, Executive must sign it and return it to Steve Price on or before the expiration of the 21 day period and/or Dell's withdrawal of the offer contained in the Agreement. By signing this Agreement, Executive acknowledges that Executive was afforded a period of at least 21 days from the date DelI's proposal was presented to Executive in which to consider it. Executive understands that Executive has a period of seven days within which to revoke this Agreement after signing it. To revoke this Agreement, Executive understands that Executive must provide written notification of revocation to Steve Price within seven days from the date Executive signed it.
16. Consideration and Revocation Periods.
If the foregoing accurately sets forth Executive's agreement with Dell, please signify by signing below and returning this Agreement in its entirety to Steve Price on or before the close of business on the twenty-first day after this Agreement was presented to Executive. If Dell has not received a signed copy of this Agreement by that time, the offer reflected in this Agreement will automatically terminate and expire without further notice from Dell.

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Expands Dell Services, Consolidates Public and Large Enterprise Business Units
 Dell announced today that Steve Schuckenbrock has been named president of Dell Services. Mr. Schuckenbrock succeeds Peter Altabef, who is leaving Dell after leading the successful integration of Perot Systems into Dell.
ROUND ROCK, Texas, Jan. 13, 2011
The integration of Perot Systems has strengthened Dell Services, expanded its portfolio of capabilities, and established a strong foundation for future growth. The combined Dell Services business unit represents almost $8 billion in annual revenue. With more than 43,000 team members working in 90 countries, Dell Services operates 60 technology support centers around the world, 36 customer data centers and provides technical support for 14 million client systems and 10,000 Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) customers. Over the past year, the Services team met or exceeded all of its integration milestones, achieving more than $100 million in cost savings in fiscal year 2011 and capturing revenue synergies of more than $150 million, both surpassing original estimates.
In a related move, Dell will consolidate its Public and Large Enterprise business units into a single organization focused on supporting the needs of these customers. Paul Bell will serve as president of Dell's newly combined Public-Large Enterprise business unit. Both Mr. Schuckenbrock and Mr. Bell report to Michael Dell, chairman and CEO.
Mr. Schuckenbrock, who has been leading Dell's Large Enterprise business unit, formerly served as CIO of Dell and has held leadership roles at PepsiCo and EDS. He will be responsible for managing Dell Services, Dell IT, the global expansion of Dell's Services operations, the integration of recent services acquisitions and the company's strategic efforts to develop companywide integrated solutions. The company anticipates that moving its solutions organization under the expanded Dell Services function will further accelerate the creation of companywide integrated vertical solutions while enabling quicker expansion of its solutions portfolio and capabilities.
Mr. Bell, the president of Dell's Public-Large Enterprise business unit, is a 15-year Dell veteran who most recently served as president of Dell's public business unit. He has also managed Dell's Europe, Middle East and Africa operations and the commercial business in North and South America.
The creation of a single Public-Large Enterprise business unit is designed to enhance Dell's position as a preferred provider of open, capable and affordable IT technology solutions and services.
"We thank Peter for his contributions to Dell and for his commitment to enabling the successful integration of Perot Systems with our business," said Mr. Dell. "The changes we have announced today represent the continued evolution of Dell's organizational structure. As we continue to provide more differentiated and integrated IT solutions for our customers, it's important that we take steps to further deepen our customer insights and relationships while strengthening our competitive position in the industry."
Steve Felice remains president, Consumer, Small and Medium Business, Dell's other major Business Unit. Dell plans to complete implementation of these organizational changes during the first quarter of its fiscal year 2012.
 
About Dell
Dell (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to its customers and uses that insight to make technology simpler and create innovative solutions that deliver reliable, long-term value. Learn more at .
www.dell.com
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Contact Information Media Contacts: (512) 728-4100


