FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20120221161828.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIO
N
Washington, DC 20549
____________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
____________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  February 21, 2012
____________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 21, 2012, Dell Inc. (Dell) issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended February 3, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) which are furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP. A reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter and fiscal year ended February 3, 2012 and certain prior fiscal periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a discussion of Dell managements reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures, the material limitations associated with the use of the non-GAAP financial measures, and the manner in which Dell management compensates for those limitations is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this current report, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is being furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section. Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell herewith furnishes the following document as an exhibit to this report:
(d)  Exhibits
- 2 -
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- 3 -
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Record Fiscal Year 2012 Highlighted By Enterprise Solutions and Services Strength
Revenue of $62.1 billion for the fiscal year, $16 billion in Q4
Record enterprise solutions and services revenue of $18.6 billion for fiscal year, $4.9 billion in Q4
Cash flow from operations of $5.5 billion for fiscal year, $1.8 billion in Q4
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--February 21, 2012--Dells further expansion as an enterprise solutions and services provider highlighted the companys most successful financial year ever.
New corporate highs were achieved for a full fiscal year with revenue of $62.1 billion, earnings per share of $1.88 (GAAP) and $2.13 (Non-GAAP), and revenue from enterprise solutions and services of $18.6 billion.
Our customers think of Dell in much broader terms now, trusting us with their comprehensive IT needs, from the datacenter to the device, said Michael Dell, chairman and CEO. We are more committed than ever to both developing and investing in innovative solutions that deliver greater value and better outcomes for our customers.
The expanding mix of revenue and earnings from enterprise solutions and services is critical to our future, said Brian Gladden, Dell chief financial officer. Our full-year results are a strong reflection of the significant progress we made this year on our strategic priorities.
Results
in the quarter was $16 billion, a 2 percent increase over the previous year. Dell had an extra week in its fiscal year 2012 that was incorporated into the companys Q4. Revenue for the 2012 fiscal year was $62.1 billion, a 1 percent increase.
Revenue
in the quarter was 43 cents, down 10 percent from the previous year; was 51 cents, down 4 percent. For the fiscal year, GAAP EPS was $1.88, up 39 percent year over year and Non-GAAP EPS was $2.13, up 34 percent, both records.
GAAP earnings per share
non-GAAP EPS
for the quarter was $931 billion, or 5.8 percent of revenue. was $1.1 billion, or 7.1 percent of revenue. For the fiscal year, GAAP operating income was $4.4 billion and non-GAAP operating income was $5.1 billion, both records.
GAAP
operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
in the quarter was $1.8 billion, and Dell ended Q4 with $18.2 billion in cash and investments. For the fiscal year, Dell spent $2.7 billion to purchase 178 million shares of Dell stock.
Cash flow from operations
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility actions and acquisition-related costs, a merger termination fee and certain settlement costs. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Strategic Highlights:
revenue grew 12 percent to $2.2 billion and represented 14 percent of Dells business. The transactional services business increased 14 percent with strong attach rates of Dell premium support services and the outsourcing business grew 8 percent. Services backlog increased 11 percent to $15.5 billion.
Dell Services
grew 33 percent to $463 million, led by offerings based on Dell-owned intellectual property, including Compellent, which had sequential growth of more than 60 percent.
Dell-owned storage
grew 6 percent.
Server and networking revenue
Business Units and Regions:
in the quarter, a 5 percent increase with broad-based growth across both client and enterprise solutions and services. Services revenue increased 18 percent. Operating income for the quarter was $461 million, or 9.4 percent of revenue. Revenue for the full year was $18.5 billion, up 4 percent from the previous year.
Large Enterprise had revenue of $4.9 billion
revenue was $3.9 billion, a 1 percent decrease. The segment was affected by continued weakness in U.S. Federal and Western Europe. Services revenue increased 7 percent and Dell IP storage revenue was up 32 percent. Operating income for the quarter was $327 million, or 8.3 percent of revenue.
Public
revenue grew 6 percent to $4 billion. Enterprise solutions and services revenue was up 18 percent during the quarter to an all-time high of $1.2 billion. Services growth was 28 percent in the quarter. SMB delivered $412 million in operating income, or 10.3 percent of revenue, driven by the better mix of higher-margin enterprise solutions and services.
Small and Medium Business
revenue was $3.2 billion, a 2 percent decline for the quarter. Operating income was $39 million or 1.2 percent of revenue, a 43 percent decline. Revenue weakness was largely concentrated in the United States, while revenue from non-U.S. countries grew 10 percent.
Consumer
revenue grew 10 percent  including 15 percent growth from China  and increased 8 percent in the quarter. was down 3 percent. Revenue in Growth Countries  defined as those outside the U.S., Canada, Western Europe and Japan  increased 8 percent in the quarter and 12 percent for the fiscal year. Revenue in the BRIC countries increased 10 percent in the quarter and 15 percent for the fiscal year.
Asia-Pacific and Japan
EMEA
Americas
Company Outlook:
The company will continue to prioritize operating income and cash flow. For fiscal 2013, the company expects non-GAAP earnings per share to exceed the record $2.13 it delivered in fiscal 2012 and expects to continue strong execution, with cash flow from operations exceeding net income. For Q1, the company expects revenue to decline approximately 7 percent sequentially, which aligns with normal seasonality adjusted for the fourteenth week.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers worldwide innovative technology, business solutions and services they trust and value. For more information, visit . As previously announced, the fourth-quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO; Brian Gladden, CFO; and, Steve Felice, president and chief commercial officer, will be webcast live today at 4:00 CST and archived at . To monitor highlighted facts from the analyst call, follow on the Dell Investor Relations Twitter account at: or hashtag #DellEarnings. To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investor
http://twitter.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/dellshares
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively with non-GAAP gross margin and non-GAAP operating expenses, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and has presented a detailed discussion of its reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells future financial and operating performance, trends relating to enterprise, solutions and services, anticipated customer demand, global macroeconomic uncertainty, and geographic trends, as well as the financial guidance with respect to revenue, cash flow from operations, net income and non-GAAP earnings per share) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: intense competition; Dells cost-cutting measures; Dells ability to effectively manage the growth of its distribution capabilities and add to its product and services offerings; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting Dells financial services activities; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; Dells ability to deliver consistent quality products and services; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; access to the capital markets by Dell or its customers; loss of government contracts; the risk of temporary suspension or debarment from contracting with U.S. federal, state and local governments as a result of settlements of an SEC investigation by Dell and Dells Chairman and CEO; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; information technology and manufacturing infrastructure disruptions or breaches of data security; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; counterparty default; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended Jan. 28, 2011. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to revenue, cash flow from operations, net income and non-GAAP earnings per share for the full fiscal year ending Feb. 1, 2013 assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, that macroeconomic uncertainties do not materialize into significant economic difficulties, no significant change in product mix patterns, continued geographic customer demand trends, continued successful demand planning and forecasting, no supply chain disruptions, and no significant adverse component pricing or supply movements. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow. Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Interest and other, net for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2011 includes Dells receipt of a $72 million merger termination fee.
(1)
Other for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2011 includes amounts for the $100 million settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million settlement for a securities litigation matter.
(2)
Days of sales outstanding (DSO) is based on the ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in the other current assets. At February 3, 2012, October 28, 2011, and January 28, 2011, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 39 and 3 days, 39 and 3 days, 37 and 3 days, respectively.
(1)
SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The tables on the following pages set forth, for the periods indicated, a reconciliation of non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures) to the most comparable GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. See Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures following the tables for additional information regarding Dells reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and for material limitations with respect to the usefulness of these measures.
Other for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2011 includes amounts for the $100 million settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million settlement for a securities litigation matter, which are both recorded in operating expenses, offset by Dell's receipt of a $72 million merger termination fee, which is recorded in Interest and Other, Net.
(1)
USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
Dell uses non-GAAP financial measures to supplement the financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better understand Dells consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of Dells segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of Dell's underlying operating performance. Dell also believes that excluding certain items from Dells GAAP results allows Dells management to better project Dells future consolidated financial performance because Dells forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, Dell believes these non-GAAP financial measures will provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate Dell's operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of Dell's operating performance, and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. Non-GAAP projections for Fiscal 2013, which are forward looking non-GAAP financial measures, exclude acquisition-related charges, severance and facility action costs, and amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions, some of which Dell cannot forecast with certainty or accuracy due to their inherently indefinite and contingent nature, thereby preventing Dell from reconciling its projections to GAAP. The historical non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by Dell, represent the comparable GAAP measures adjusted to exclude these same items as well as amounts for the settlements related to the SEC investigation and a securities litigation matter, which were both incurred during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, and a merger termination fee, which was received during the third quarter of Fiscal 2011. Dell provides more detail below regarding each of these items and our reasons for excluding them. In future fiscal periods, Dell expects that it may again exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in Dells non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual.
The non-GAAP financial measures for the periods indicated in the tables above reflect adjustments related to the following items:
Severance and Facility Actions and Acquisition-related Costs - Severance and facility action costs are primarily related to facilities charges including accelerated depreciation and severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to cost synergies related to strategic acquisitions and actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs. Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of retention payments, integration costs, and other costs. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs primarily include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of employees, costs related to full-time employees who are working on the integration, and consulting expenses. Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of these events. Therefore, although Dell may incur these types of expenses in the future, Dell believes eliminating these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Amortization of Intangible Assets - Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, acquired technology, non-compete covenants, and trade names purchased in connection with business acquisitions. Dell incurs charges relating to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in Dells consolidated financial statements. Amortization charges for Dells purchased intangible assets are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of Dells acquisitions. Consequently, Dell excludes these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance and comparisons to Dells past operating performance.
Other Fees and Settlements - Dell also adjusts its GAAP results for certain fees and settlements. During the third quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell received $72 million from 3PAR inc ("3PAR") for 3PAR's termination of its merger agreement with Dell. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell recorded a $100 million settlement amount for the SEC investigation into certain of Dell's accounting and financial matters, which was initiated in 2005, and also incurred $40 million for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against Dell during Fiscal 2007. Dell is excluding these fees and settlements from the operating results of Fiscal 2011 for the purpose of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because it believes these settlements are outside Dells ordinary course of business and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of Dells current operating performance.
The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. The tax effects are determined based on the tax jurisdictions where the above items were incurred.
There are limitations to the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Dell's non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in Dells industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently than Dell does, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Further, items such as severance and facility action costs and acquisition expenses that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Dells management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying on Dells GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP measures are not available. The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as substitutes for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Dell provides detailed reconciliations of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within the financial information included with this press release and in other written materials that include such non-GAAP historical financial measures, and Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of any historical non-GAAP financial measures.
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or Michael McMullen, 512-724-4448 or David Mehok, 512-728-4225
Media: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations:
robert_williams@dell.com
michael_mcmullen@dell.com
david_mehok@dell.com


