FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20120522162507.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIO
N
Washington, DC 20549
____________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
____________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  May 22, 2012
____________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 22, 2012, Dell Inc. (Dell) issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended May 4, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) which are furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP. A reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter ended May 4, 2012 and certain prior fiscal periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. In addition, a discussion of Dell managements reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures, the material limitations associated with the use of the non-GAAP financial measures, and the manner in which Dell management compensates for those limitations is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this current report, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is being furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section. Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell herewith furnishes the following document as an exhibit to this report:
(d)  Exhibits
- 2 -
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- 3 -
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Revenue of $14.4 billion
GAAP Earnings of $0.36 per share, non-GAAP earnings was $0.43 per share
Dell Enterprise Solutions and Services revenue grew 2 percent year over year to $4.5 billion
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 22, 2012--Dell announced its fiscal 2013 first quarter results today, continuing to show progress in its move to being a total enterprise services and solutions provider. Revenue for the quarter was $14.4 billion, with GAAP operating income of $824 million, and earnings of $0.36 per share.
Were committed to continuing our strategy to re-shape Dells business as an end-to-end IT provider, said Michael Dell, chairman and CEO. We saw continued progress in our first quarter with the innovative IT solutions were providing  notably our latest Dell servers, storage, networking and services that deliver customers enhanced productivity.
We continued to shift the mix of our business during a challenging environment, said Brian Gladden, Dell chief financial officer. Our enterprise solutions and services businesses now account for 50 percent of our gross margin, and well continue to make the necessary investments to maintain our progress.
Results
in the quarter was $14.4 billion, a 4 percent decrease from the previous year.
Revenue
in the quarter was 36 cents, down 27 percent from the previous year; was 43 cents, down 22 percent.
GAAP earnings per share
non-GAAP EPS
for the quarter was $824 million, or 5.7 percent of revenue. was $1 billion, or 7 percent of revenue.
GAAP
operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
in the quarter was $138 million. For the past four quarters, Dell has generated $4.9 billion in cash flow. Dell ended the quarter with $17.2 billion in cash and investments.
Cash used in operations
Fiscal-Year 2013 First Quarter Highlights
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, and acquisition-related charges. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Strategic Highlights:
revenue grew 2 percent year over year to $4.5 billion and contributed half of Dells gross margin. The ESS revenue grew 5 percent excluding third-party storage.
Dell Enterprise Solutions and Services
revenue was $2.1 billion, up 4 percent. Services backlog increased 9 percent to $15.4 billion.
Dell Services
grew 24 percent to $423 million.
Dell-owned storage
grew 2 percent.
Server and networking revenue
Business Units and Regions:
revenuewas $4.4 billionin the quarter, a 3 percent decline. Operating income for the quarter was $402 million, or 9.1 percent of revenue.
Large Enterprise
revenue was $3.5 billion, a 4 percent decrease. Operating income for the quarter was $271 million, or 7.8 percent of revenue.
Public
revenue grew 4 percent to $3.5 billion. Enterprise Solutions and Services revenue increased 17 percent, led by services revenue growth of 23 percent and servers and networking of 16 percent. SMB had $389 million in operating income, or 11.2 percent of revenue.
Small and Medium Business
revenue was $3 billion, a 12 percent decline. Operating income was $32 million or 1.1 percent of revenue.
Consumer
revenue was flat but increased 9 percent. revenue was down 1 percent in the quarter. was down 7 percent. Revenue in the BRIC countries increased 4 percent.
Asia-Pacific and Japan
China
EMEA
Americas
Company Outlook:
The company expects second quarter revenue to be in line with historical seasonal trends and be up 2-4 percent from first-quarter levels.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers worldwide innovative technology, business solutions and services they trust and value. For more information, visit . As previously announced, the first-quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO; Brian Gladden, CFO; and, Steve Felice, Chief Commercial Officer, will be webcast live today at 4:00 CDT and archived at . To monitor highlighted facts from the analyst call, follow on the Dell Investor Relations Twitter account at: or hashtag #DellEarnings. To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investor
http://twitter.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/dellshares
Segment Realignment:
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Dell made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way Dell internally manages segment performance. These realignments affected all of Dell's operating segments, but primarily consisted of the transfer of small office business customers from the Small and Medium Business segment to the Consumer Segment. Dell has recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impacts Dell's previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively with non-GAAP gross margin and non-GAAP operating expenses, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and has presented a detailed discussion of its reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures under the heading Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note on Forward Looking Statements
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells future financial and operating performance, trends relating to mix shift, macroeconomic uncertainty, organic and inorganic investments and success relating to strategic transformation, as well as the financial guidance with respect to cash flow from operations, net income and non-GAAP earnings per share) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: intense competition; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; Dells ability to manage effectively the change involved in implementing strategic initiatives; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells cost-efficiency measures; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; Dells ability to deliver consistent quality products and services; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; the performance of Dells sales channel partners; access to the capital markets by Dell or its customers; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting our financial services activities; counterparty default; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; loss of government contracts; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; infrastructure disruptions; cyber attacks or other data security breaches; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; impairment of portfolio investments; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended February 3, 2012. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to cash flow from operations, net income and non-GAAP earnings per share for the full fiscal year ending Feb. 1, 2013 assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, that macroeconomic uncertainties do not materialize into significant economic difficulties, no significant change in product mix patterns, and continued geographic customer demand trends. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to second quarter revenue amounts assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, that macroeconomic uncertainties do not materialize into significant economic difficulties, no significant change in product mix patterns, and continued geographic customer demand trends. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Segment Results for Fiscal 2012 have been recast to conform to segment realignments that were completed during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. See Supplemental Segment Information at the end of these financial tables for more information.
(1)
Days of sales outstanding (DSO) is based on the ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in other current assets. At May 4, 2012, February 3, 2012, and April 29, 2011, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 39 and 4 days, 39 and 3 days, 37 and 3 days, respectively.
(1)
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Dell made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way Dell internally manages segment performance. These realignments affected all of Dell's operating segments, but primarily consisted of the transfer of small office business customers from the Small and Medium Business segment to the Consumer Segment. Dell has recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impacts Dell's previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share.
(1)
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or Michael McMullen, 512-724-4448 or David Mehok, 512-728-4225
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com
michael_mcmullen@dell.com
david_mehok@dell.com


