FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20120612161225.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
_________
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
_________
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): _________
June 11, 2012
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Dell Inc.
(Address of principal executive offices)     (Zip Code)
One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas 78682
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  (
800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
(e)  In connection with the adoption by the Board of Directors of Dell Inc. (Dell) of the dividend policy described in Item 8.01 of this report, on June 11, 2012, the Leadership Development and Compensation Committee of the Board (the Committee) approved amendments to each outstanding restricted stock unit award (RSU) and performance-based restricted stock unit award (PBU) granted by Dell to its employees and directors under Dells 2002 long-term incentive plan.  The amendments to the awards provide that if Dell pays a cash dividend on its common stock, each holder of RSUs or PBUs will be entitled to receive a dollar amount equal to the per-share cash dividend paid by Dell, multiplied by the total number of shares issued upon the vesting of the stock units.  The amounts that a holder of stock units is entitled to receive, which are cumulative to the extent that multiple cash dividends are paid, are referred to as dividend equivalents.  
Any dividend equivalents credited to either an RSU or PBU award will be subject to the same vesting, payment and other terms and conditions as the related stock units.  Accordingly, no holder of a PBU will receive any dividend equivalent payments with respect to that award unless the PBU vests and is paid out following the achievement of the specified performance goals.  In addition, any employee who forfeits either RSUs or PBUs upon termination of employment also will forfeit the right to receive payment of any dividend equivalents accumulated with respect to those stock units.  Accumulated dividend equivalents will be paid in cash upon delivery of the shares underlying the relevant RSUs and PBUs.
The stock unit awards subject to the amendments include awards held by Dells currently serving named executive officers.  As of the date of this report, Michael S. Dell, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, held no RSUs, Brian T. Gladden, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, held RSUs for 219,895 shares, Stephen J. Felice, President, Chief Commercial Officer, held RSUs for 231,903 shares, and Stephen F. Schuckenbrock, President, Services, held RSUs for 312,642 shares.  Each of these officers also held PBUs for a number of shares that will be fixed upon the vesting of such awards and based on performance.  Although the final numbers of these PBUs will reflect actual performance outcomes, assuming the target performance metrics are achieved, Mr. Dell held PBUs for 1,058,974 shares, Mr. Gladden held PBUs for 407,365 shares, Mr. Felice held PBUs for 464,199 shares and Mr. Schuckenbrock held PBUs for 457,079 shares.
The Committee determined that the amendments were appropriate in light of the Boards adoption of the dividend policy.  As stock units are not outstanding shares of common stock and thus would not otherwise be entitled to participate in any dividends paid by the company, the crediting of dividend equivalents is intended to preserve the equity-based incentives intended by Dell when the awards were granted and to treat the award holders consistently with stockholders.
The information provided in Item 8.01 of this report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference in this Item 5.02.  
On June 12, 2012, Dell issued a press release announcing the matters reported in Item 8.01 of this report.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and incorporated by reference in this Item 7.01.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this Item 7.01 of this current report, and in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is being furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section.  Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
- 2 -
On June 12, 2012, Dell announced that its Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy under which the company intends to pay a quarterly cash dividend on its common stock beginning in the third quarter of the current fiscal year. Dell expects the initial dividend rate to be $0.32 per share per year, or $0.08 per share quarterly. Dells third fiscal quarter ends on November 2, 2012.
The cash dividend policy and the declaration and payment of each quarterly cash dividend will be subject to the Boards continuing determination that the policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interests of Dells stockholders and are in compliance with applicable law.  Dells Board retains the power to modify, suspend or cancel its dividend policy in any manner and at any time that it may deem necessary or appropriate in the future.
The Board did not declare a dividend in connection with its adoption of the dividend policy.
Dell herewith furnishes the following document as an exhibit to this report:
(d)  Exhibits
- 3 -
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- 4 -
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dells Enterprise Solutions Strategy Delivering on Financial Commitments; Company Adopts Quarterly Dividend Beginning in Third Quarter
Company making strategic investments that expand its solutions portfolio
AUSTIN, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--June 12, 2012--Dell has executed on its commitment to grow profitability and operating income while expanding its enterprise solutions and services, Michael Dell, chairman and CEO, will tell analysts at the companys 2012 Analyst Meeting, which starts today.
Dell is an end-to-end solutions provider today as we continue to build out our data center, software and services capabilities, Mr. Dell said. We have changed the conversation were having with our customers. We are a solutions company first, vertically focused, and creating more value for customers with innovative offerings that provide competitive advantage.
In conjunction with the meeting, Dell also announced that its Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy under which the company intends to pay quarterly cash dividends on its common stock beginning in the third quarter of the current fiscal year. Dell expects the initial dividend rate to be $0.32 per share per year, or $0.08 per share quarterly. Based on Mondays closing price of $11.86 for Dell stock, the dividend yield would be 2.7 percent.
Our efforts to streamline our operations and shift the mix of our business over the past several years have resulted in sustainably strong cash flow from operations, enabling us to increase the percentage of capital weve allocated to research and development, capital expenditures and acquisitions while maintaining an ongoing share repurchase program, said Brian Gladden, Dell chief financial officer. The payment of a quarterly cash dividend to Dells shareholders adds another element to our disciplined capital allocation strategy.
The company expects that through the dividend and share repurchases, it will increase its target range for distribution of capital to shareholders from 10-30 percent of free cash flow to 20-35 percent. For the past four quarters, Dell has generated $4.9 billion in cash flow from operations and ended its fiscal 2013 first quarter with $17.2 billion in cash and investments.
Mr. Gladden said that Dell is confident in its continuing ability to make the necessary investments to grow its portfolio of enterprise solutions and services while initiating the quarterly dividend and continuing share repurchases.
At the meeting, Mr. Dell and other company executives will reiterate the companys intent to continue shifting its mix of operating income to Dell-owned enterprise solutions and services that scale vertically and horizontally with customer needs to address both its largest and smallest customers.
Evidence of Dells solutions transition over the past 12 months includes acquiring eight companies providing strategic intellectual property for Dells growth as a solutions provider, creating a software organization, and opening 11 customer solution centers globally. The company also has doubled the number of its engineers developing enterprise solutions and more than tripled the number of its specialists selling solutions over the past five years.
The result has been a shift in Dells sales to higher-margin data center solutions consisting of servers, networking, storage and related software and services. Dell reported in its last fiscal quarter that 50 percent of the companys gross margin and more than 30 percent of its revenue came from the sale of enterprise solutions and services. The company projects its enterprise solutions, software and services business will grow at a 10 percent compounded annual growth rate through fiscal year 2016 and represent an increasing percentage of Dells operating income margin.
Mr. Gladden said that while Dell has become a solutions and services company, it remains committed to a profitable end-user computing business.
By exercising discipline and being selective on the business we pursue, we expect to continue to run a profitable end-user business, Mr. Gladden said. Weve gained share in the high-value portion of the industry for six of the last seven quarters and see this part of our business continuing to contribute operating income in excess of 5 percent of revenue. He also said the company will continue to address opportunities to take cost out of our operations and maintain focus on profit rather than unit growth.
To view the live webcast of the meeting Wednesday starting at 7:30 a.m. CDT, or to view the replay later, go to .
www.dell.com/investor
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers innovative technology and services that give them the power to do more. For more information, visit .
www.dell.com
Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells plans to pay a quarterly cash dividend, share repurchases, mix shift expectations, and enterprise solutions, software and services growth) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: intense competition; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; Dells ability to manage effectively the change involved in implementing strategic initiatives; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells cost-efficiency measures; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; Dells ability to deliver consistent quality products and services; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; the performance of Dells sales channel partners; access to the capital markets by Dell or its customers; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting our financial services activities; counterparty default; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; loss of government contracts; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; infrastructure disruptions; cyber-attacks or other data security breaches; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; impairment of portfolio investments; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended February 3, 2012. The dividend policy and each dividend will be subject to the Boards continuing determination that they are in the best interests of Dells stockholders and are in compliance with applicable law.
Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc.
Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or David Mehok, 512-728-4225
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com
david_mehok@dell.com


