FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20121115161753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIO
N
Washington, DC 20549
____________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
____________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  November 15, 2012
____________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 15, 2012, Dell Inc. (Dell) issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended November 2, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) which are furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP. A reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter ended November 2, 2012, and certain prior fiscal periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. In addition a detailed discussion of Dell's reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures is presented in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in Dell's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2012. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this current report, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is being furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section. Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell herewith furnishes the following document as an exhibit to this report:
-2-
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
-3-
EXHIBIT INDEX
-4-

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Reports Third Quarter Financial Results
Revenue of $13.7 billion
GAAP earnings of $0.27 per share, non-GAAP earnings of $0.39 per share
Cash flow from operations of $1.3 billion
Dell Enterprise Solutions and Services revenue grew 3 percent year over year to $4.8 billion
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--November 15, 2012--Dell announced fiscal 2013 third-quarter results today with revenue of $13.7 billion, GAAP operating income of $589 million, and GAAP earnings of $0.27 per share. Dells enterprise solution strategy continued to show positive results with server and networking revenue increasing 11 percent year over year.
We are consistently executing our end-to-end solutions strategy for the benefit of our customers, said Michael Dell, Chairman and CEO. In the quarter, we completed the acquisition of Quest Software which  along with other recent acquisitions like SonicWALL and Wyse  adds leading management, security, virtualization and cloud capabilities to our expanding portfolio of powerful solutions.
In a difficult global IT spending environment we saw solid proof points that demonstrate progress in our strategy, said Brian Gladden, Dell CFO. A highlight has been the strong progress of our newly introduced servers, with our server and networking business up 11 percent. Were also encouraged by early interest in our new Windows 8 touch portfolio and the opportunities it creates for our commercial and consumer businesses.
Mr. Gladden added that strong cash flow from operations generated over the past two years continued with $1.3 billion in the quarter and, combined with a strong cash position this fiscal year, helped enable Dell to invest in new capabilities and return almost $900 million year to date to shareholders through the companys recently adopted dividend and share repurchases.
Results
in the quarter was $13.7 billion, an 11 percent decrease from the previous year as desktop and mobility revenue contracted.
Revenue
for the quarter was $589 million, or 4.3 percent of revenue. was $886 million, or 6.5 percent of revenue.
GAAP
operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
in the quarter was 27 cents, down 45 percent from the previous year; was 39 cents, down 28 percent.
GAAP earnings per share
non-GAAP EPS
in the quarter was $1.3 billion. Dell ended the quarter with $14.2 billion in cash and investments.
Cash flow from operations
Fiscal-Year 2013 Third Quarter and Year-to-Date Highlights
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, certain settlement costs and acquisition-related charges. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Strategic Highlights:
revenue grew 3 percent year over year to $4.8 billion. The company year to date is 4 percent ahead of last years ES&S revenue at $14.2 billion, accounting for greater than 50 percent of the companys gross margin thus far this year. The ES&S business is on an annual run-rate approaching $20 billion.
Dell Enterprise Solutions and Services
revenue for the quarter grew 11 percent. Dell was the only top-3 server provider to have positive unit growth in the quarter. Dells server growth was driven by its new, line, leadership in hyper-scale infrastructure solutions and an increase in customer adoption of cloud solutions for their IT requirements. Dells differentiated intellectual property and solutions have resulted in solid growth in this business.
Server and networking
12-Generation
th
business continues to execute well, with gross margin percentages improving sequentially for the sixth consecutive quarter, as the company focuses on the most profitable areas of the business. Growth in support, deployment and security services highlighted the quarter.
Dells Services
Business Units and Regions:
revenuewas $4.2 billionin the quarter, an 8 percent decline. Operating income was $325 million, or 7.8 percent of revenue.
Large Enterprise
revenue was $3.8 billion, an 11 percent decrease. Operating income for the quarter was $352 million, or 9.2 percent of revenue.
Public
revenue was $3.3 billion, a 1 percent decline. Operating income was $349 million, or 10.6 percent of revenue.
Small and Medium Business
revenue was $2.5 billion, a 23 percent decline. Operating loss was $65 million or minus 2.7 percent of revenue.
Consumer
Revenue in was down 9 percent;was down 11 percent; and was down 15 percent.
Americas
Asia-Pacific and Japan
EMEA
Company Outlook:
Dell sees the challenging global macro-economic environment continuing in the fourth quarter, which will continue to impact the companys results. The company expects sequential revenue growth of 2 to 5 percent. For the full year, Dell maintains its expectation for at least $1.70 in earnings per share on a non-GAAP basis. Going forward, the company is committed to its end-to-end solutions strategy and creating value over the long term.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers worldwide innovative technology, business solutions and services they trust and value. For more information, visit . The third-quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO, Brian Gladden, CFO, and, Steve Felice, Chief Commercial Officer, will be webcast live today at 4 p.m. CST and archived at . To monitor highlighted facts from the analyst call, follow on the Dell Investor Relations Twitter account at: or hashtag #DellEarnings. To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investor
http://twitter.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/dellshares
Segment Realignment:
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Dell made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way Dell internally manages segment performance. These realignments affected all of Dell's operating segments, but primarily consisted of the transfer of small office business customers from the Small and Medium Business segment to the Consumer Segment. Dell has recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impacts Dell's previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively with non-GAAP gross margin and non-GAAP operating expenses, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note on Forward Looking Statements
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells future financial and operating performance, trends relating to macroeconomic challenges and the IT spending environment, effects of our acquisitions, our server business, our dividends and share repurchases, and consumer demand relating to Windows 8, as well as the financial guidance with respect to revenue and earnings per share) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: intense competition; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; Dells ability to manage effectively the change involved in implementing strategic initiatives; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells cost-efficiency measures; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; Dells ability to deliver consistent quality products and services; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; the performance of Dells sales channel partners; access to the capital markets by Dell or its customers; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting our financial services activities; counterparty default; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; loss of government contracts; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; infrastructure disruptions; cyber-attacks or other data security breaches; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; impairment of portfolio investments; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended February 3, 2012. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to sequential revenue and earnings per share for the full fiscal year ending Feb. 1, 2013 assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, that macroeconomic challenges do not materialize into more significant economic difficulties, no significant change in seasonality patterns, continued strength in server, storage and network products and continued geographic customer demand trends. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Includes the results of Dell's Fiscal 2013 acquisitions from their respective acquisition dates. Servers and Networking includes our Fiscal 2013 Software acquisitions (Quest Software, SonicWALL, and AppAssure).
(1)
Segment Results for Fiscal 2012 have been recast to conform to segment realignments that were completed during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. See Supplemental Segment Information at the end of these financial tables for more information.
(2)
Includes the results of Dell's Fiscal 2013 acquisitions from their respective acquisition dates. Servers and Networking includes our Fiscal 2013 Software acquisitions (Quest Software, SonicWALL, and AppAssure).
(1)
Segment Results for Fiscal 2012 have been recast to conform to segment realignments that were completed during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. See Supplemental Segment Information at the end of these financial tables for more information.
(2)
Days of sales outstanding ("DSO") is based on the ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified as other current assets. At November 2, 2012, August 3, 2012, and October 28, 2011, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 41 and 4 days, 42 and 4 days, and 39 and 3 days, respectively.
(1)
SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The following tables include information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Dell has provided a reconciliation of the historical non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the below tables. A detailed discussion of Dell's reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures is presented in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in Dell's annual report on Form 10-K for the financial year ended February 3, 2012. Dell encourages investors to review the historical reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Includes the results of Dell's Fiscal 2013 acquisitions from their respective acquisition dates.
(1)
Includes the results of Dell's Fiscal 2013 acquisitions from their respective acquisition dates.
(1)
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Dell made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way Dell now internally manages segment performance. These realignments affected all of Dell's operating segments, but primarily consisted of the transfer of small office business customers from the Small and Medium Business segment to the Consumer Segment. Dell has recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impacts Dell's previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share.
(1)
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Dell made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way Dell now internally manages segment performance. These realignments affected all of Dell's operating segments, but primarily consisted of the transfer of small office business customers from the Small and Medium Business segment to the Consumer Segment. Dell has recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impacts Dell's previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share.
(1)
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or David Mehok, 512-728-4225
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com
david_mehok@dell.com


