FILE:DELL/DELL-8K-20120821161354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSIO
N
Washington, DC 20549
____________
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
____________
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  August 21, 2012
____________
Dell Inc.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(800) 289-3355
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 21, 2012, Dell Inc. (Dell) issued a press release announcing its financial results for its fiscal quarter ended August 3, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
To supplement Dells condensed consolidated financial statements presented on the basis of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) which are furnished in Exhibit 99.1 to this report, Dell has presented information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP. A reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP financial measure for Dells fiscal quarter ended August 3, 2012 and certain prior fiscal periods is included in the tables set forth under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in Exhibit 99.1. In addition a detailed discussion of Dell's reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures is presented in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in Dell's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2012. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, operating income, gross margin, operating expenses, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2 to Form 8-K, the information contained in this current report, including Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is being furnished with the Securities and Exchange Commission and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under such section. Furthermore, such information shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, unless specifically identified as being incorporated therein by reference.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Dell herewith furnishes the following document as an exhibit to this report:
(d)  Exhibits
- 2 -
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- 3 -
EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 99.1
Dell Reports Second Quarter Financial Results
Revenue of $14.5 billion
GAAP earnings of $0.42 per share, non-GAAP earnings of $0.50 per share
Dell Enterprise Solutions and Services revenue grew 6 percent year over year to $4.9 billion; now represents more than 50 percent of company margin and more than a third of revenue
ROUND ROCK, Texas--(BUSINESS WIRE)--August 21, 2012--Dell announced fiscal 2013 second-quarter results today with revenue of $14.5 billion, GAAP operating income of $901 million, and earnings of $0.42 per share. Consistent with its strategy, Dell saw growth in its server, services and networking businesses.
Were transforming our business, not for a quarter or a fiscal year, but to deliver differentiated customer value for the long term, said Michael Dell, chairman and CEO. Were clear on our strategy and were building a leading portfolio of solutions to help our customers achieve their goals.
Our performance in the second quarter provided another proof-point that our long-term strategy is right, said Brian Gladden, Dell chief financial officer. We continued our progress in shifting the mix of our business to higher-margin enterprise solutions, led by solid growth in our server, networking, services, and Dell IP storage businesses.
Growth in our PC business was challenging, as we saw a tough macroeconomic and competitive environment, and continued to focus on higher-value solutions in this business, Mr. Gladden said.
Results
in the quarter was $14.5 billion, an 8 percent decrease from the previous year as desktop and mobility revenue contracted.
Revenue
for the quarter was $901 million, or 6.2 percent of revenue. was $1.1 billion, or 7.8 percent of revenue. Gross margins for the quarter benefitted by approximately $70 million, or 50 basis points, primarily resulting from a vendor settlement.
GAAP
operating income
Non-GAAP operating income
in the quarter was 42 cents, down 13 percent from the previous year; was 50 cents, down 7 percent.
GAAP earnings per share
non-GAAP EPS
in the quarter was $637 million. Dell ended the quarter with $14.6 billion in cash and investments.
Cash flow from operations
Information about Dells use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Non-GAAP financial information excludes costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, severance and facility-action costs, certain settlement costs and acquisition-related charges. All comparisons in this press release are year over year unless otherwise noted.
Strategic Highlights:
revenue grew 6 percent year over year to $4.9 billion and comprised 34 percent of Dells consolidated revenue and more than 50 percent of its margin. This business is now approaching a $20 billion annual run rate.
Dell Enterprise Solutions and Services
revenue grew 14 percent.
Server and networking
Revenue of increased 6 percent.
Dell-owned storage
revenue was $2.1 billion, up 3 percent, with new signings of more than $1 billion in the first half of the year, and $1.8 billion over the last 12 months.
Dell Services
Year to date Dell has , all of which will help drive a higher-value mix of solutions with more predictable revenue and margin streams. The company expects to close the pending acquisition of Quest Software in the second half of the third quarter.
announced six acquisitions and closed five
Business Units and Regions:
revenuewas $4.5 billionin the quarter, a 3 percent decline. Operating income was $433 million, or 9.5 percent of revenue. Enterprise Solutions and Services revenue increased 9 percent on 17 percent growth in server and networking revenue and 5 percent increase in services.
Large Enterprise
revenue was $4.1 billion, a 6 percent decrease. Operating income for the quarter was $379 million, or 9.3 percent of revenue. Server and networking revenue increased 4 percent.
Public
revenue was $3.3 billion, a 1 percent decline. Operating income was $382 million, or 11.7 percent of revenue. Enterprise solutions and services grew 15 percent led by an increase of 27 percent in services revenue and 16 percent in servers and networking.
Small and Medium Business
revenue was $2.6 billion, a 22 percent decline. Operating income was $14 million or 0.5 percent of revenue.
Consumer
Revenue in was down 6 percent; was down 7 percent, andrevenue was down 12 percent.Revenue in countries was down 15 percent.
Americas
EMEA
Asia-Pacific and Japan
BRIC
Company Outlook:
Dell expects continued solid growth in Enterprise Solutions, Services and Software and also a challenging end-user computer environment in the second half of the year. Given the uncertain economic environment, competitive dynamics and soft Consumer business, Dell expects third-quarter revenue to be down 2-5 percent from second-quarter levels. In addition, the company is modifying its full-year earnings outlook to at least $1.70 per share on a non-GAAP basis, which includes a 2-to-3 cent dilutive impact from its pending acquisition of Quest Software.
About Dell
Dell Inc. (NASDAQ: DELL) listens to customers and delivers worldwide innovative technology, business solutions and services they trust and value. For more information, visit . The second-quarter analyst call with Michael Dell, chairman and CEO, and Brian Gladden, CFO, will be webcast live today at 4 p.m. CDT and archived at . To monitor highlighted facts from the analyst call, follow on the Dell Investor Relations Twitter account at: or hashtag #DellEarnings. To communicate directly with Dell, go to .
www.dell.com
www.dell.com/investor
http://twitter.com/dellshares
www.dell.com/dellshares
Segment Realignment:
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Dell made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way Dell internally manages segment performance. These realignments affected all of Dell's operating segments, but primarily consisted of the transfer of small office business customers from the Small and Medium Business segment to the Consumer Segment. Dell has recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impacts Dell's previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
This press release includes information about non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively with non-GAAP gross margin and non-GAAP operating expenses, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In the following tables, Dell has provided a reconciliation of each historical non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure under the heading Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Dell encourages investors to review the reconciliation in conjunction with Dells presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures.
Special Note on Forward Looking Statements
:
Statements in this press release that relate to future results and events (including statements about Dells future financial and operating performance, trends relating to mix shift, macroeconomic challenges, effects of our acquisitions and success relating to strategic transformation, as well as the financial guidance with respect to revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share) are forward-looking statements and are based on Dell's current expectations. In some cases, you can identify these statements by such forward-looking words as anticipate, believe, could, estimate, expect, intend, confidence, may, plan, potential, should, will and would, or similar expressions. Actual results and events in future periods may differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements because of a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors, including: intense competition; Dells reliance on third-party suppliers for product components, including reliance on several single-sourced or limited-sourced suppliers; Dells ability to achieve favorable pricing from its vendors; weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets; Dells ability to manage effectively the change involved in implementing strategic initiatives; successful implementation of Dells acquisition strategy; Dells cost-efficiency measures; Dells ability to effectively manage periodic product and services transitions; Dells ability to deliver consistent quality products and services; Dells ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue; Dells product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends; the performance of Dells sales channel partners; access to the capital markets by Dell or its customers; weak economic conditions and additional regulation affecting our financial services activities; counterparty default; customer terminations of or pricing changes in services contracts, or Dells failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts; loss of government contracts; Dells ability to obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms; infrastructure disruptions; cyber-attacks or other data security breaches; Dells ability to hedge effectively its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other compliance matters; impairment of portfolio investments; unfavorable results of legal proceedings; Dells ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel; Dells ability to maintain strong internal controls; changing environmental and safety laws; the effect of armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, and public health issues; and other risks and uncertainties discussed in Dells filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended February 3, 2012. In particular, Dells expectations with regard to revenue and non-GAAP earnings per share for the full fiscal year ending Feb. 1, 2013 assume, among other matters, that there is no significant decline in economic conditions generally or demand growth specifically, that macroeconomic challenges do not materialize into more significant economic difficulties, no significant change in product mix patterns, and continued geographic customer demand trends. Dell assumes no obligation to update its forward-looking statements.
Consolidated statements of income, financial position and cash flows and other financial data follow.
Dell is a trademark of Dell Inc. Dell disclaims any proprietary interest in the marks and names of others.
Note: Percentage growth rates and ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
Segment Results for Fiscal 2012 have been recast to conform to segment realignments that were completed during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. See Supplemental Segment Information at the end of these financial tables for more information.
(1)
Note: Percentage growth rates and ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
Segment Results for Fiscal 2012 have been recast to conform to segment realignments that were completed during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. See Supplemental Segment Information at the end of these financial tables for more information.
(1)
Note: Ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
Days of sales outstanding ("DSO") is based on the ending net trade receivables and most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified as other current assets. At August 3, 2012, May 4, 2012, and July 29, 2011, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 42 and 4 days, 39 and 4 days, and 39 and 3 days, respectively.
(1)
SUPPLEMENTAL NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The following tables include information about non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share (collectively, the non-GAAP financial measures), which are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Dell has provided a reconciliation of the historical non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in the below tables. A detailed discussion of Dell's reasons for including the non-GAAP financial measures and the limitations associated with those measures is presented in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations - Non-GAAP Financial Measures" in Dell's annual report on Form 10-K for the financial year ended February 3, 2012. Dell encourages investors to review the historical reconciliation and the non-GAAP discussion in conjunction with the presentation of non-GAAP financial measures.
Note: Percentage growth rates and ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
Note: Percentage growth rates and ratios are calculated based on underlying data in thousands.
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Dell made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way Dell now internally manages segment performance. These realignments affected all of Dell's operating segments, but primarily consisted of the transfer of small office business customers from the Small and Medium Business segment to the Consumer Segment. Dell has recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impacts Dell's previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share.
(1)
In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Dell made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way Dell now internally manages segment performance. These realignments affected all of Dell's operating segments, but primarily consisted of the transfer of small office business customers from the Small and Medium Business segment to the Consumer Segment. Dell has recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impacts Dell's previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share.
(1)
CONTACT: Dell David Frink, 512-728-2678 or Jess Blackburn, 512-728-8295 or Robert Williams, 512-728-7570 or David Mehok, 512-728-4225
Media Contacts: 512-728-4100
david_frink@dell.com
jess_blackburn@dell.com
Investor Relations Contacts:
robert_williams@dell.com
david_mehok@dell.com


