ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW The Company develops, markets, sells and supports comprehensive corporate application and information infrastructure software and services that enable effective and efficient enterprise wide deployment and management of applications and information, including those designed for Microsoft Windows operating systems,UNIX operating systems and for Web based information systems. The Companys largest source of revenue consists of the MetaFrame(R) products and related options. The MetaFrame products, which began shipping in the second quarter of 1998, permit organizations to provide virtual access to Windows based and UNIX applications without regard to location, network connection or type of client hardware platforms. The Company also provides portal software and services that are designed to provide personalized, secure Web based access to a wide variety of business information from any location, device or connection. The Company markets its products through multiple direct and indirect channels such as distributors, value added resellers and original equipment manufacturers worldwide. On May 9, 1997, the Company and Microsoft entered into a License, Development and Marketing Agreement (as amended, the "Development Agreement"), which provides for the licensing to Microsoft of certain of the Companys multi user software enhancements to Microsofts Windows NT Server and for the Windows NT Server, Terminal Server Edition and Microsoft Windows 2000 (collectively, "Windows Server Operating Systems"). The Development Agreement also provides for each party to develop its own enhancements to the jointly developed products, which may provide access to Windows Server Operating Systems base platforms from a wide variety of computing devices. In June 1998, the Company released its MetaFrame product, a Company developed enhancement that implements the Independent Computing Architecture ("ICA(R)") on the Windows Server Operating Systems. In addition, Microsoft and the Company have agreed to engage in certain joint marketing efforts to promote the use of Windows Server Operating Systems based multi user software and the Companys ICA protocol. Pursuant to the terms of the Development Agreement, in May 1997, the Company received $75 million as a non refundable royalty payment for engineering and support services to be rendered by the Company. Under the terms of the Development Agreement, the Company received additional payments totaling $100 million in April 1998. No additional payments are due pursuant to the Development Agreement. The initial fee of $75 million relating to the Development Agreement is being recognized ratably over the five year term of the contract, which began in May 1997. The additional $100 million received pursuant to the Development Agreement is being recognized ratably over the remaining term of the contract, effective April 1998. As a result of the Development Agreement, the Company continues to support the Microsoft Windows NT platform, but the MetaFrame products and later releases no longer directly incorporate Windows NT technology. The Company currently plans to continue developing enhancements to its MetaFrame products and currently expects that these products and associated options will constitute a majority of its revenues for the foreseeable future. The term of the Development Agreement expires in May 2002. ACQUISITIONS The Company has acquired technology related to its strategic objectives. In July 1999 and April 2001, the Company completed the acquisitions of ViewSoft, Inc. ("Viewsoft") and Sequoia Software Corporation ("Sequoia") for approximately $33.5 million and $182.6 million, respectively. In February 2000, the Company acquired all of the operating assets of the Innovex Group, Inc. ("Innovex") for approximately $47.8 million. At the date of acquisition, the Company paid approximately $28.9 million in consideration and closing costs. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, the remaining purchase consideration, plus interest, was contingently payable based on future events. During 2001, these contingencies were met, resulting in approximately $16.2 million of additional purchase price and $2.9 million in compensation to the former owners. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, payment of the contingent amounts and associated interest were made in August 2001 and February 2002 for $10.5 million and $10.7 million, respectively. There are no remaining contingent obligations. 14 These acquisitions were accounted for under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 16, Accounting for Business Combinations. The Company allocated the cost of the acquisitions to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Except for Innovex, the acquired intangible assets included in process technology projects, among other assets, which were related to research and development that had not reached technological feasibility and for which there was no alternative future use. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The Companys discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon its consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including those that relate to product returns, multiple element revenue arrangements, customer programs, bad debts, investments, intangible assets, income tax contingencies and litigation. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. If actual results significantly differ from managements estimates, the Companys financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted. The Company believes the following critical accounting policies affect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial statements. The Company records estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs and incentive offerings including volume based incentives and price protection. If market conditions were to decline, the Company may take actions to increase customer incentive offerings and possibly result in an incremental reduction to revenue at the time the incentive is offered. The Company also records a reduction in revenue for estimated sales returns and stock rotations. These estimates are based on historical sales returns, analysis of credit memo data and other known factors. If the historical data the Company uses to calculate these estimates does not properly reflect future returns, revenue may be misstated. Revenue is recognized when earned. The Companys revenue recognition policies are in compliance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position ("SOP") 97 2 (as amended by SOP 98 4 and SOP 98 9) and related interpretations, Software Revenue Recognition. Product revenues are recognized upon shipment of the software product only if no significant Company obligations remain, the fee is fixed or determinable, and collection of the resulting receivable is deemed probable at the outset of the arrangement. In the case of non cancelable product licensing arrangements under which certain original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") have software reproduction rights, initial recognition of revenue also requires delivery and customer acceptance of the product master or first copy. Subsequent recognition of revenues is based upon reported royalties from the OEMs. Revenue from packaged product sales to distributors and resellers is recorded when related products are shipped. Revenues from enterprise and corporate licensing arrangements are recognized when the related products are shipped and the customer has been electronically provided with the licenses that include the activation keys that allow the customer to take immediate possession of the software pursuant to an agreement or purchase order. In software arrangements that include rights to multiple software products, post contract customer support ("PCS"), and or other services, the Company allocates the total arrangement fee among each deliverable based on the relative fair value of each of the deliverables determined based on vendor specific objective evidence ("VSOE"). The Company sells software and PCS separately and VSOE is determined by the price charged when each element is sold separately. Product returns and sales allowances, including stock rotations, are estimated and provided for at the time of sale. Non recurring engineering fees are recognized ratably as the work is performed. Revenues from training and consulting are recognized when the services are performed. Service and PCS revenues from customer maintenance fees for ongoing customer support and product updates and upgrades are based on the price charged or derived value of the undelivered elements and are recognized 15 ratably over the term of the contract, which is typically 12 to 24 months. Service revenues are included in net revenues on the face of the consolidated statements of income. The Company adopted the provisions of the Securities and Exchange Commissions Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements ("SAB101") in October 2000. SAB 101 does not supersede the software industry specific revenue recognition guidance, but provides current interpretations of revenue recognition requirements. The adoption of SAB 101 did not have a significant effect on the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Company provides for potential uncollectible accounts receivable based on customer specific information and historical collection experience. If market conditions decline, actual collection experience may not meet expectations and may result in increased bad debt expenses. The carrying value of the Companys net deferred tax assets assumes that the Company will be able to generate sufficient future taxable income in certain tax jurisdictions, based on estimates and assumptions. If these estimates and assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record valuation allowances against its deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expenses. In assessing the recoverability of the Companys goodwill and other intangible assets, the Company must make estimates of expected future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. If these estimates and their related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record impairment charges. The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, on January 1, 2002 and will be required to analyze its goodwill for impairment on an annual basis. The Company does not expect to record any impairment charges as a result of the adoption of this statement. The fair value of certain of the Companys cash equivalents and investments is dependent on the performance of the companies or funds in which the Company has invested, as well as the volatility inherent in the external markets for these investments. In assessing the potential impairment for these investments, the Company considers these factors as well as forecasted financial performance of its investees. During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company recorded $7.7 million of losses resulting from other than temporary declines in fair value of certain of the Companys equity investments. The following discussion relating to the individual financial statement captions, the Companys overall financial performance, operations and financial position should be read in conjunction with the factors and events described in " Overview" and " Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results" which may impact the Companys future performance and financial position. 16 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth the consolidated statements of income data of the Company expressed as a percentage of net revenues and as a percentage of change from period to period for the periods indicated: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 2000 COMPARED TO COMPARED TO 2001 2000 1999 2000 1999 Net revenues.................................. 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 25.8% 16.7% Cost of revenues (excluding amortization, presented separately below)................. 5.1 6.2 3.6 0.3 99.3 Gross margin.................................. 94.9 93.8 96.4 27.3 13.6 Operating expenses: Research and development.................... 11.4 10.8 9.3 33.7 35.5 Sales, marketing and support................ 37.9 38.3 30.1 24.2 48.7 General and administrative.................. 14.4 12.5 9.4 45.2 55.4 Amortization of intangible assets........... 8.3 6.5 4.6 60.7 64.5 In process research and development......... 0.4 0.5 * * Write down of technology.................... 1.9 * * Total operating expenses................. 72.4 70.0 53.9 30.2 51.5 Income from operations........................ 22.5 23.8 42.5 18.8 (34.6) Interest income............................... 7.1 8.8 6.3 1.7 63.3 Interest expense.............................. (3.5) (3.6) (3.1) 20.2 36.4 Other expense, net............................ (0.3) (0.3) (0.4) 58.4 (8.2) Income before income taxes.................... 25.8 28.7 45.3 13.0 (26.1) Income taxes.................................. 8.0 8.6 16.3 16.8 (38.4) Net income.................................... 17.8% 20.1% 29.0% 11.4 (19.2) * not meaningful. Net Revenues. The Companys operations consist of the design, development, marketing and support of corporate application and information infrastructure software and services for enterprise wide deployment and management of applications and information. Previously, the company presented revenues in the following five categories: Application Servers, Management Products, Computing Appliances Products, Microsoft Royalties and Services and Other Revenue. Application Servers revenue primarily represented fees related to the licensing of the Companys MetaFrame products, Subscription Advantage, the Companys terminology for PCS, and additional user licenses. Management Products consisted of load balancing services, resource management services and other options. Computing Appliances Products revenue consisted of license fees and royalties from OEMs who are granted a license to incorporate and or market the Companys multi user technologies in their own product offerings. Microsoft Royalties represented fees recognized in connection with the Development Agreement. Services and Other Revenue consisted primarily of customer support, as well as consulting in the delivery of implementation services and systems integration solutions. Certain of the Companys software management products such as load balancing services and resource management services, traditionally included in Management Products, have been bundled into the MetaFrame XP products introduced in the first quarter of 2001. As a result, the Company has reclassified net revenues into the following three categories as presented below: License Revenue, Services Revenue, and Royalty Revenue. License Revenue primarily represents fees related to the licensing of the Companys MetaFrame products, Subscription Advantage, additional user licenses, unbundled management products (such as load balancing services and resource management services), and license fees from OEMs who are granted a license to incorporate and or market the Companys multi user technologies in their own product 17 offerings. Services Revenue consists primarily of customer support and consulting in the delivery of implementation services and systems integration solutions. Royalty Revenue represents the fees recognized in connection with the Development Agreement. The increase in net revenues in 2001 was primarily attributable to an increase in License Revenue resulting from an increase in the number of MetaFrame licenses sold for Windows operating systems, specifically due to market acceptance of the Companys MetaFrame XP family of products introduced in February 2001. The Company expects that License Revenues will continue to represent a large percentage of net revenues. The increase in net revenues in 2001 was also due to an increase in Services Revenue due primarily to an increase in larger scale corporate and enterprise licensing arrangements that typically require professional services to ensure successful implementation of Citrix technologies. The revenue from the Development Agreement with Microsoft will terminate in May 2002 upon the expiration of the term of the Development Agreement. The increase in net revenues in 2000 was primarily attributable to an increase in License Revenue resulting from an increase in the number of MetaFrame licenses sold. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from the WinFrame(R) product line. WinFrame is the Companys Windows application server software based on Windows NT 3.51. The increase in net revenues in 2000 was also due to an increase in the volume of shipments of certain management products included in License Revenue, specifically, load balancing services and resource management services, and to a lesser extent an increase in Services Revenue due to consulting revenue resulting from the Companys corporate and enterprise customers and initiatives utilizing personnel acquired in the Innovex acquisition. An analysis of the Companys net revenues is presented below: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, REVENUE REVENUE GROWTH GROWTH 2001 2000 1999 2000 TO 2001 1999 TO 2000 License Revenue............................... 86.4% 85.0% 86.2% 27.7% 15.1% Services Revenue.............................. 6.9 6.5 3.9 33.8 93.0 Royalty Revenue............................... 6.7 8.5 9.9 (0.2) 0.2 Net Revenues.................................. 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 25.8 16.7 International and Segment Revenues. International revenues (sales outside of the United States) accounted for approximately 48.0%, 40.3% and 38.7% of net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The increase in international revenues as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to the Companys increased sales and marketing efforts and continued demand for the Companys products in Europe and Asia, as well as the economic impact of slower IT spending in the United States during 2001. The Company is unable to determine if slower IT spending will continue in the United States during 2002. Geographic segment revenues have notably increased in the Asia Pacific segment, particularly due to increased sales in Japan, and in the EMEA segment, particularly due to increased sales in Europe. The increased market acceptance overseas during 2001 represents the result of the Companys investment in global operations and development of international markets over the past two years. The Company currently anticipates that international revenues will account for an increasing percentage of net revenues in the future as the Company continues to invest in overseas markets. For additional information on international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to the Companys Consolidated Financial Statements appearing in Item 8 of this Annual Report. 18 An analysis of geographic segment net revenue is presented below: YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, REVENUE REVENUE GROWTH GROWTH 2001 2000 1999 2000 TO 2001 1999 TO 2000 Americas(1)................................... 48.9% 52.8% 53.0% 16.4% 16.3% EMEA(2)....................................... 36.6 33.7 32.1 36.6 22.4 Asia Pacific.................................. 7.8 5.0 5.0 95.8 16.2 Other(3)...................................... 6.7 8.5 9.9 (0.2) 0.2 Consolidated net revenues..................... 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 25.8 16.7 (1) The Americas segment is comprised of the United States, Canada and Latin America. (2) Defined as Europe, Middle East and Africa. (3) Represents royalty fees in connection with the Development Agreement. The Company currently expects to continue investing in international markets and expanding its international operations by establishing additional foreign locations, hiring personnel, expanding its international sales force and adding new third party channel partners. International revenues may fluctuate in future periods as a result of difficulties in staffing, dependence on an independent distribution channel, competition, variability of foreign economic and political conditions and changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, localized product release timing and related issues of marketing such products in foreign countries. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues consisted primarily of compensation and other personnel related costs for consulting services, as well as, the cost of royalties, product media and duplication, manuals, packaging materials and shipping expense. All development costs incurred in connection with the Development Agreement are expensed as incurred and are reported as cost of revenues. The Companys cost of revenues exclude amortization of core technology. The increases in cost of revenues for 2001 and 2000 was due to the overall increase in packaged product sales and increases in compensation and other costs of providing services revenues. These increases were offset in part by a reduction of the level of inventory necessary to fulfill customer orders due to increased market acceptance of corporate and enterprise licenses. As previously mentioned, corporate and enterprise license sales are typically fulfilled with a nominal level of product media and the licenses are delivered electronically. The cost of fulfilling such sales is less than traditional packaged product sales, thereby reducing costs of revenues as a percentage of revenue. Gross Margin. The increase in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to larger reserves for obsolete inventory recorded in 2000. To a lesser extent, this increase was also due to an increase in sales of corporate and enterprise licensing, which have a higher gross margin versus traditional packaged product as a percentage of product revenue. The Company currently anticipates that gross margin as a percentage of net revenues will remain relatively stable as compared with current levels. However, gross margin may fluctuate from time to time based on these factors. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of net revenues from 1999 to 2000 was primarily due to obsolescence charges and the impact of higher consulting services revenue, which has a lower gross profit margin than that associated software licenses. The identified obsolete inventory was destroyed in 2000. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses consisted primarily of personnel related costs. All development costs included in the research and development of software products and enhancements to existing products have been expensed as incurred except for certain intangible assets related to the acquisitions described herein. Increases in research and development expenses in 2001 and 2000 resulted primarily from additional staffing, associated salaries and related expenses. The increase in 2001 was also due to costs incurred for third party software and external consultants and developers used to expand and enhance the Companys product lines, including feature releases of MetaFrame and research and development efforts on anticipated future product offerings. 19 Sales, Marketing and Support Expenses. The increase in sales, marketing and support expenses in 2001 and 2000 resulted primarily from increased personnel for sales, services and marketing and associated salaries, commissions and related expenses in order to increase the Companys sales, consulting and marketing efforts. Included in such marketing efforts in 2001 was the Companys expansion of its end customer sales force in connection with marketing to large corporate enterprise accounts. The increase was also due to a higher level of marketing programs directed at customer and business partner acquisition and retention, and additional promotional activities related to specific products, such as MetaFrame XP introduced in February 2001. General and Administrative Expenses. Increases in general and administrative expenses in 2001 and 2000 resulted primarily from increased staff, associated salaries and related expenses necessary to support overall increases in the scope of the Companys operations. The increase during 2001 was also due to increased depreciation from the Companys enterprise resource planning system implemented in 2001, as well as the reallocation of certain overhead costs from other departments into certain general and administrative cost centers and an increase in consulting and accounting fees. The increase in 2000 was also due to an increase in legal fees relating to litigation and general corporate matters. Amortization of Intangible Assets. The increases in amortization of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in 2001 and 2000 are primarily due to the acquisitions of ViewSoft in July 1999, Innovex in February 2000 and Sequoia in April 2001. These acquisitions resulted in additional goodwill and identifiable intangible assets of approximately $31.1 million, $26.7 million and $169.9 million, respectively, at their respective dates of acquisition. Additionally, for 2001, the increase was also due to additional goodwill of approximately $16.2 million associated with purchase price contingencies related to the acquisition of Innovex. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had net goodwill and identifiable intangible assets of $185.9 million, associated with these transactions. In July 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, which were adopted by the Company on July 1, 2001 and January 1, 2002, respectively. Under the new rules, goodwill (and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives) will no longer be amortized but will be subject to an annual impairment test. Other intangibles will continue to be amortized over their useful lives. The Company will apply the new rules on accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets beginning in the first quarter of 2002. At the date of adoption, the Company had unamortized goodwill, including acquired work force, in the amount of $152.4 million, which will not be amortized in the future and which will be subject to the annual impairment test of SFAS 142. At January 1, 2002, the Company had unamortized identified intangibles with estimable useful lives in the amount of $36.6 million, which will continue to be amortized in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 141 and 142. For the quarter ended March 31, 2002, the Company expects to record amortization expense of approximately $3.5 million related to these assets. The Company has completed the required impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets as of January 1, 2002 and does not anticipate an impairment charge during 2002 upon the adoption of this statement. See "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results." In Process Research and Development. In 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of certain in process software technologies from ViewSoft, in which it allocated $2.3 million of the purchase price to in process research and development ("IPR&D"). In April 2001, the Company acquired Sequoia, of which $2.6 million of the purchase price was allocated to IPR&D. The amounts allocated to IPR&D in the respective acquisitions had not reached technological feasibility, had no alternative future use and were written off at the acquisition dates. The Companys efforts with respect to the acquired technologies currently consist of integration work and any associated design, development or rework that may be required to support the integration of the technologies into the Companys anticipated future product offerings. The nature of the efforts required to develop and integrate the acquired in process technology into commercially viable products or features and functionalities within the Companys suite of existing products principally relate to the completion of all planning, designing and testing activities that are necessary to establish that the products can be produced to meet design requirements, including functions, features and technical performance requirements. The 20 Company currently expects that it will successfully develop products utilizing the acquired in process technology, but there can be no assurance that commercial viability of any of these products will be achieved. Furthermore, future developments in the software industry, particularly in the server based computing environment, changes in technology, changes in other products and offerings or other developments may cause the Company to alter or abandon product plans. Write Down of Technology. The Company periodically reviews its goodwill and other intangible assets to determine if any impairment exists. In June 1998, the Company completed its acquisition of APM Ltd. ("APM"). The acquired core technology consisted primarily of a Java software product that would operate in a MetaFrame server environment. At the time of the acquisition, it was anticipated that there was a growing demand for Java client applications. Since the acquisition, the market has not developed as originally anticipated. In the second quarter of 2000, management changed the Java application server product to a Java Performance Pack product, which adds performance enhancements and management tools to other Citrix products. By the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company had developed a Java Performance Pack and was assessing the market demand for this technology. As of December 31, 2000, the Company did not believe that there were sufficient projected cash flows to support the net book value of the core technology associated with the APM acquisition. In addition, the Company determined that there was no alternative future use for the acquired technology. As a result, the Company recorded a write down of $7.3 million, representing the net book value of the APM core technology as of December 31, 2000. In July 1998, the Company completed its acquisition of VDOnet Corporation Ltd. ("VDOnet"). The acquired core technology consisted primarily of the ICA Video Services project which allowed video applications and applications containing videos to be viewed on an ICA client. Subsequent development efforts resulted in the VideoFrame(TM) 1.0 product, which was shipped in the third quarter of 1999, but has resulted in few sales to end customers. Since the acquisition, the Company has explored alternative uses for the acquired technology. By the third quarter of 2000, the Company was exploring uses related primarily to delivering video applications in a server based computing environment and video streaming with ICA devices. In the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company reviewed potential modifications to its cash flow projections based on identified alternative uses for the technology. As a result of its evaluation, the Company did not believe that there were sufficient projected cash flows to support the carrying value of the core technology. As a result, the Company recorded a write down of $1.8 million, representing the net book value of the VDOnet core technology as of December 31, 2000. Interest Income. Interest income increased in 2001 as compared to 2000 principally from the Company changing the composition of its investment portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2000 from tax exempt and taxable to predominantly taxable securities, partially offset by a decrease in interest rates during 2001. The increase in 2000 was primarily due to the full year effect of interest earned on the invested net proceeds from the issuance of the zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures in March 1999 and interest from the increase in cash from operations. Interest Expense. The increase in interest expense for 2001 as compared to 2000 was primarily due to interest on contingent payments associated with the Innovex acquisition, as well as the accretion of the original issue discount related to the zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures issued in March 1999. The increase in interest expense in 2000 compared to 1999 was due primarily to accretion of the original issue discount related to the convertible subordinated debentures. Other Expense, Net. The change in other expense, net for 2001 compared to 2000 was the result of $7.7 million of losses recorded in 2001 resulting from other than temporary declines in the fair value of certain of the Companys equity investments, as well as approximately $2.4 million of foreign exchange losses partially offset by realized gains of $8.0 million associated with purchases and sales of available for sale securities and associated contracts. Income Taxes. The increase in the effective tax rate from 30% in 2000 to 31% in 2001 resulted primarily from non deductible goodwill associated with the acquisition of Sequoia offset in part by a rate decrease resulting from increased foreign earnings which were taxed at lower foreign tax rates. In July 1999, the Company changed its organizational structure whereby it moved certain operational and administrative 21 processes to overseas subsidiaries. The repositioning resulted in foreign earnings being taxed at lower foreign tax rates, as the Companys foreign earnings are considered permanently reinvested overseas. As a result of these organizational changes, the Companys effective tax rate decreased to 30% in 2000 from 36% in 1999. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES During 2001, the Company generated positive operating cash flows of $229.8 million related primarily to net income of $105.3 million, adjusted for non cash items including tax benefits from the exercise of non statutory stock options and disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options of $28.0 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $79.6 million, provisions for product returns of $22.5 million (primarily due to the Companys stock rotation program) and the accretion of original issue discount and amortization of financing costs on the Companys convertible subordinated debentures of $17.9 million. These cash inflows were partially offset by an aggregate decrease in cash flow from operating assets and liabilities of $39.4 million. Cash used in investing activities of $382.2 million related primarily to net cash paid for acquisitions (primarily in connection with the acquisition of Sequoia), of $183.8 million, the net purchase of investments of $137.9 million and $60.6 million for the purchase of property and equipment and costs associated with the Companys enterprise resource planning ("ERP") system implementation. Approximately $11.9 million has been capitalized through December 31, 2001 related to the Companys ERP system, and no future capital expenditures are planned in connection with the Companys ERP system. Cash used in financing activities of $83.0 million related primarily to the expenditure of $210.2 million for stock repurchase programs, partially offset by the proceeds from the issuance of common stock under the Companys stock option plans of $117.4 million and $12.0 million generated from premiums received upon the sale of put warrants. During 2000, the Company generated positive operating cash flows of $243.2 million related primarily to net income of $94.5 million, adjusted for non cash items including tax benefits from the exercise of non statutory stock options and disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options of $63.9 million, depreciation and amortization expenses of $50.2 million, and provisions for product returns and inventory obsolescence of $34.8 million (primarily due to the Companys stock rotation program). These cash inflows were partially offset by an aggregate decrease in cash flow from operating assets and liabilities of $26.6 million. Cash used in investing activities of $1.8 million for 2000 related primarily to the expenditure of $43.5 million for the purchase of computer equipment, leasehold improvements and office equipment to support the Companys growth and expansion, and net cash paid for acquisitions, primarily Innovex of $30.1 million, partially offset by cash inflows from the net sale of investments totaling $73.2 million. Cash used in financing activities of $82.6 million related primarily to the expenditure of $157.9 million for stock repurchase programs, partially offset by $70.5 million from the issuance of common stock under the Companys stock option and employee stock purchase plans and $4.9 million generated from premiums charged in the sale of put warrants. At December 31, 2001, the Companys working capital was $153.6 million compared to $427.3 million at December 31, 2000. The decrease in working capital is primarily due to a shift of cash and investments from short to long term investments. At December 31, 2001, the Company had $65.0 million in accounts receivable, mostly due under normal 30 day payment terms, net of allowances. The increase in accounts receivable compared to 2000 is primarily attributed to the increase in the Companys revenues. From time to time, Citrix may maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances from its distributors or customers, which are comprised of large business enterprises, governments and small and medium sized businesses. If the financial condition of its distributors or customers deteriorates, the Companys operating results could be adversely affected. One such distributor accounted for approximately 14% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2001. In 2000, this distributor accounted for 17% of accounts receivable. During these periods, no other distributor or customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable. At December 31, 2001, the Company had $746.7 million in cash and investments, including $139.7 million in cash and cash equivalents. The Companys cash and cash equivalents are generally invested in investment grade, highly liquid securities to minimize interest rate risk and allow for flexibility in the event of immediate cash needs. The Companys short and long term investments consist primarily of corporate 22 securities, municipal securities and commercial paper. The Companys investments are classified as available for sale or as held to maturity; therefore, the Company does not recognize changes in the fair value of these investments in earnings unless a decline in the fair value of the investments is other than temporary. From time to time, the Company makes equity investments that are accounted for under the cost method due to the limited extent of the Companys ownership interest and lack of the Companys ability to exert significant influence over the investees. As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, such investments were recorded at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. During 2001, the Company recorded $7.7 million of losses resulting from other than temporary declines in fair value of certain of the Companys equity investments. At December 31, 2001, the Companys remaining equity investments were not material. The Company leases a significant portion of its worldwide facilities under non cancelable operating leases. Future payments due under these non cancelable operating leases are $20.8 million, $18.4 million, $14.7 million, $13.4 million and $11.6 million for the years ending December 31, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Thereafter, payments due total $76.6 million. During 2001, the Company purchased Sequoia for approximately $182.6 million in cash. In order to improve the overall credit quality and rebalance the short and long term maturity of its investment portfolio subsequent to the cash expenditure, the Company sold corporate debt securities that were previously designated as held to maturity and purchased higher credit quality corporate debt securities with interest rates that reset quarterly. Additionally, during 2001, the Company terminated a forward bond purchase agreement previously designated as a hedge of forecasted purchases of corporate security investments. The sale of securities and the termination of the forward bond purchase agreement resulted in a realized gain of approximately $8.0 million, which is included in other expense, net on the accompanying consolidated statements of income. In March 1999, the Company sold $850 million principal amount at maturity of its zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures (the "Debentures") due in March 2019, in a private placement. The Debentures were priced with a yield to maturity of 5.25% and resulted in net proceeds to the Company of approximately $291.9 million, net of original discount and net of debt issuance costs of $9.6 million. Except under limited circumstances, no interest will be paid prior to maturity. The Debentures are convertible at the option of the security holder at any time on or before the maturity date at a conversion rate of 14.0612 shares of the Companys Common Stock for each $1,000 principal amount at maturity of the Debentures, subject to adjustment in certain events. The Company may redeem the Debentures on or after March 22, 2004, and holders may require the Company to repurchase the Debentures, on fixed dates and at set redemption prices (equal to the issue price plus accrued original discount), beginning on March 22, 2004. The Companys investment program considered the possible redemption of the Debentures in 2004, and it is the current intention of the Company to maintain sufficient liquidity in the event that redemption is required, or the Debentures are otherwise repurchased at the Companys option. In December 2000, the Company invested $158.1 million in a trust ("Trust") managed by an investment advisor. The Companys investment comprises all of the Trusts assets. The Trust assets primarily consist of AAA rated zero coupon corporate securities that mature on March 22, 2004. The Trust entered into a credit risk swap agreement with the investment advisor, which effectively increased the yield on the Trust assets and for which value the Trust assumed the credit risk of ten investment grade companies. The effective yield of the Trust, including the credit risk swap agreement, is 6.72% and the principal balance will accrete to $195 million in March 2004. In addition, in November 2001, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of approximately $175 million which has the effect of converting a like amount of floating rate notes in the Companys investment portfolio to a synthetic zero coupon investment due in March 2004 with a maturity value of approximately $190 million. The Company believes that the combined proceeds of these investment transactions will be sufficient to substantially fund the redemption of the Debentures in 2004, if required. In October 2000, the Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $25 million of the Debentures in open market purchases. As of December 31, 2001, 4,500 units of the Companys Debentures representing $1.8 million in principal amount at maturity, had been repurchased under 23 this program for $2.1 million. The Board of Directors limited authorization to repurchase the Debentures allows the Company to repurchase Debentures when market conditions are favorable. On April 15, 1999, the Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to $200 million of the Companys Common Stock. On April 26, 2001, the Board of Directors increased the scope of the repurchase program by authorizing the Company to repurchase up to $400 million of the Companys Common Stock (inclusive of the $200 million approved in April 1999). In January 2002, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $200 million of repurchase authority under the program, bringing the aggregate amount authorized for repurchase to $600 million. The objective of the Companys stock repurchase program is to minimize the dilutive effect of its stock option programs. Pursuant to the Companys stock repurchase program, the Company is authorized to make open market purchases. Purchases will be made from time to time in the open market and paid out of general corporate funds. During 2001 and 2000, the Company purchased 3,135,500 and 2,750,000 shares, respectively, of outstanding Common Stock on the open market for approximately $90.7 million and $57.9 million, respectively. These shares have been recorded as treasury stock. Additionally, pursuant to the stock repurchase program, the Company entered into two agreements, with a single counterparty in private transactions to purchase approximately 7.3 million shares of the Companys Common Stock at various times through December 2003. Pursuant to the terms of the agreements, $100 million was paid to the counterparty in 2000 and $50 million was paid in 2001. The ultimate number of shares repurchased will depend on market conditions. During 2001 and 2000, the Company repurchased 2,307,450 shares and 1,067,108 shares, respectively, under this agreement at a total cost of $50.3 million and $18.2 million, respectively. The shares have been recorded as treasury stock. In connection with the Companys stock repurchase program, in October 2000, the Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the Company to sell put warrants that entitle the holder of each warrant to sell to the Company, generally by physical delivery, one share of the Companys Common Stock at a specified price. During 2001, the Company sold 3,190,000 put warrants at an average strike price of $28.95 and received premium proceeds of $12.0 million. During 2001, the Company paid $69.5 million for the purchase of 2,190,000 shares upon the exercise of outstanding put warrants, while 1,000,000 put warrants expired unexercised. The Common Shares purchased upon exercise of these put warrants have been recorded as treasury stock. As of December 31, 2001, 1,300,000 put warrants were outstanding, and expired or will expire on various dates between January and March 2002, with exercise prices ranging from $20.75 to $26.42. As of December 31, 2001, the Company has a total potential repurchase obligation of approximately $30.8 million associated with the outstanding put warrants, of which $16.6 million is classified as a put warrant obligation on the consolidated balance sheet. The remaining $14.2 million of outstanding put warrants permit a net share settlement at the Companys option and do not result in a put warrant obligation on the consolidated balance sheet. The outstanding put warrants classified as a put warrant obligation on the consolidated balance sheet will be reclassified to stockholders equity when the warrant is exercised or when it expires. Under the terms of the put warrant agreements, the Company must maintain certain levels of cash and investments balances. As of December 31, 2001, the Company had approximately $246.7 million of cash and investments in excess of those required levels. During 2001 and 2000, the Company expended an aggregate of $198.2 million and $153.0 million, net of put warrant premiums received, respectively, under all stock repurchase transactions. On April 30, 2001, the Company completed the acquisition of Sequoia, a provider of XML pure portal software, for approximately $182.6 million in cash, including approximately $2.7 million in transaction costs, all of which were paid during 2001. The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase. In February 2000, the Company acquired all of the operating assets of Innovex for approximately $47.8 million. At the date of acquisition, the Company paid approximately $28.9 million in consideration and closing costs. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, the remaining purchase consideration, plus interest, was contingently payable based on future events. During 2001, these contingencies were met, resulting in approximately $16.2 million of additional purchase price and $2.9 million in compensation to the former 24 owners. Pursuant to the acquisition agreement, payment of the contingent amounts and associated interest were made in August 2001 and February 2002 for $10.5 million and $10.7 million, respectively. There are no remaining contingent obligations. During 2001 and 2000, a significant portion of the Companys cash inflows were generated by operations. Although the Company believes existing cash and investments together with cash flow expected from operations will be sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements through 2002, there can be no assurance that future operating results will not vary if the Company experiences a decrease in customer demand or acceptance of future product offerings. The Company may from time to time seek to raise additional funds through public or private offerings of debt or equity securities. There can be no guarantee that such financings will be available when needed or desired or that, if available, such financings will be at terms favorable to the Company or its stockholders. The Company continues to search for suitable acquisition candidates and may acquire or make investments in companies it believes are related to its strategic objectives. Such investments may reduce the Companys available working capital. CERTAIN FACTORS WHICH MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The Companys operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by the Company or statements made by its employees may contain "forward looking" information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Form 10 K, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to statements concerning new prospects, goals, products, product pricing, hiring and marketing plans, license revenues, development of the MetaFrame enhancements and the contribution of MetaFrame to license revenues, the Development Agreement, growth of international revenues, investments in foreign operations and markets, reinvestment of foreign earnings, gross margins, goodwill, intangible assets, impairment charges, amortization, in process research and development, obsolescence of acquired technologies, anticipated operating and capital expenditure requirements, upgrading of Companys systems, acquisitions, debt redemption obligations, stock repurchases, and potential debt or equity financings constitute forward looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. The Companys actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and may in the future vary significantly from those stated in any forward looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements made in this Form 10 K, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K or presented elsewhere by management from time to time. Such factors, among others, may have a material adverse effect upon the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. Reliance Upon Strategic Relationship with Microsoft Microsoft is the leading provider of desktop operating systems. The Company depends upon the license of key technology from Microsoft, including certain source and object code licenses and technical support. The Company also depends upon its strategic alliance agreement with Microsoft pursuant to which the Company and Microsoft have agreed to cooperate to develop advanced operating systems and promote Windows application program interfaces. The Companys relationship with Microsoft is subject to the following risks and uncertainties, which individually, or in the aggregate, could cause a material adverse effect in the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition: Competition with Microsoft. Microsoft Windows NT Server, Terminal Server Edition and Microsoft Windows 2000 (collectively "Windows Server Operating Systems") are, and future product offerings by Microsoft may be, competitive with the Companys current MetaFrame products, and any future product offerings by the Company. Expiration of Microsofts Endorsement of the ICA Protocol. Microsofts obligation to endorse only the Companys ICA protocol as the preferred method to provide multi user Windows access for devices other than Windows clients expired in November 1999. Microsoft may market or endorse other 25 methods to provide multi user Windows access to non Windows client devices, including Microsofts Remote Desktop Protocol ("RDP"). Dependence on Microsoft for Commercialization. The Companys ability to successfully commercialize certain of its MetaFrame products depends on Microsofts ability to market Windows Server Operating Systems products. The Company does not have control over Microsofts distributors and resellers and, to the Companys knowledge, Microsofts distributors and resellers are not obligated to purchase products from Microsoft. Product Release Delays. There may be delays in the release and shipment of future versions of Windows Server Operating Systems. Termination of Development Agreement Obligations. The Companys Development Agreement with Microsoft expires in May 2002. Upon expiration, Microsoft may change its Windows Server Operating Systems to render them inoperable with the Companys MetaFrame product offerings. Further, upon termination of the Development Agreement, Microsoft may help third parties compete with the Companys MetaFrame products. Finally, future product offerings by Microsoft may not provide for interoperability with the Companys products. The lack of interoperability between present or future Microsoft products and the Companys products could cause a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. Termination of the Development Agreement Revenues. Upon the expiration of the Companys Development Agreement with Microsoft, the Company will no longer recognize any royalty revenue from the Development Agreement. There can be no assurances that the Companys agreements with Microsoft will be extended or renewed by Microsoft upon their respective expirations or that, if renewed or extended, such agreements will be on terms favorable to the Company or its stockholders. Fluctuations in Economic and Market Conditions The demand for the Companys products depends in part upon the general demand for computer hardware and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of the Companys current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. Fluctuations in the demand for the Companys products could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the impact of slower IT spending in the future, if any, could impact the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The Companys short and long term investments with various financial institutions are subject to risks inherent with fluctuations in general economic and market conditions. Such fluctuations could cause an adverse effect in the value of such investments and could even result in a total loss of certain of the Companys investments. A total loss of one or more investments could result in an adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. New Products and Technological Change The markets for the Companys products are relatively new and are characterized by: rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; changes in end customer requirements; and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. These market characteristics will require the Company to continually enhance its current products and develop and introduce new products to keep pace with technological developments and respond to evolving end customer requirements. As is common in the computer software industry, the Company may experience 26 delays in the introduction of new products. Moreover, the Company may experience delays in market acceptance of any new products or new releases of its current products. Additionally, the Company and others may announce new product enhancements or technologies that could replace or shorten the life cycle of the Companys existing product offerings. For example, there can be no guarantee that the Companys development stage, channel ready portal software product, NFuse Elite, will be introduced when anticipated or desired by the Company, or that upon introduction, NFuse Elite will be accepted by the Companys channel and strategic partners, customers or prospective customers. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If the Company experiences material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to new products or new releases of its current products, such delays and shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company believes it will incur additional costs and royalties associated with the development, licensing or acquisition of new technologies or enhancements to existing products. This will increase the Companys cost of revenues and operating expenses. The Company cannot currently quantify such increase with respect to transactions that have not occurred. The Company may use a substantial portion of its cash and investments to fund these additional costs. The Company believes that it will continue to rely, in part, on third party licensing arrangements to enhance and differentiate the Companys products. Such licensing arrangements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties such as undetected errors in third party software, disagreement over the scope of the license and other key terms, such as royalties payable, and infringement actions brought by third party licensees. In addition, the loss or inability to maintain any of these third party licenses could result in delays in the shipment or release of the Company products, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. The Company may need to hire additional personnel to develop new products, product enhancements and technologies and to fulfill the Companys responsibilities under the terms of the Development Agreement. If the Company is unable to add the necessary staff and resources, future enhancement and additional features to its existing or future products may be delayed, which may have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. Charges in the Event of Impairment In January 2002, the Company adopted SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As a result, the Company no longer amortizes goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives. However, the Company will continue to have amortization related to certain product and core technologies, trademarks, patents and other intangibles, and the Company must evaluate its intangible assets, including goodwill, at least annually for impairment. If the Company determines that any of its intangible assets are impaired, the Company will be required to take a related charge to earnings. Furthermore, at January 1, 2002, the Company had unamortized identified intangibles with estimable useful lives in the amount of $36.6 million, of which $34.0 million consists of product and core technology purchased by the Company in its acquisition of Sequoia. The Company currently intends to commercialize such technology through its new access portal line of products that includes NFuse Elite. If the Companys new access portal line of products is not accepted by the Companys channel and strategic partners, customers or prospective customers, the Company may determine that the value of such purchased technology is impaired and may be required to take a related charge to earnings. Such a charge to earnings could result in a material adverse effect on the Companys results of operations and financial condition. Competition The markets in which the Company competes are intensely competitive. Certain of its competitors and potential competitors, including Microsoft and Novell, Inc., have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than the Company. The announcement of the release and the actual release of products competitive with the Companys existing and future product lines, such as Windows Server 27 Operating Systems and related enhancements, could cause existing and potential customers of the Company to postpone or cancel plans to license the Companys products. This would adversely impact the Companys business, operating results and financial condition. Further, the Companys ability to market ICA, MetaFrame and other future product offerings may be affected by Microsofts licensing and pricing scheme for client devices implementing the Companys product offerings, which attach to Windows Server Operating Systems. In addition, alternative products exist for Web applications in the Internet software market that directly or indirectly compete with the Companys current products and anticipated future product offerings. Existing or new products that extend Internet software to provide database access or interactive computing (including but not limited to, Microsoft products) can materially impact the Companys ability to sell its products in this market. As markets for the Companys products continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software and networking industries may enter the markets in which the Company competes and further intensify competition. Competitors in this market include Microsoft, AOL Time Warner, ORACLE, Sun Microsystems and other makers of Web server application and browser software. Finally, although the Company believes that price has historically been a less significant competitive factor than product performance, reliability and functionality, the Company believes that price competition may become more significant in the future. The Company may not be able to maintain its historic prices and margins, and any inability to do so could adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. Dependence Upon Strategic Relationships In addition to its relationship with Microsoft, the Company has strategic relationships with IBM, Compaq, Hewlett Packard and others. The Company depends upon its strategic partners to successfully incorporate the Companys technology into their products and to market and sell such products. If the Company is unable to maintain its current strategic relationships or develop additional strategic relationships, or if any of its key strategic partners are unsuccessful at incorporating the Companys technology into their products or marketing or selling such products, the Companys business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Dependence on Proprietary Technology The Company relies primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect its proprietary rights. The Companys efforts to protect its proprietary technology rights may not be successful. The loss of any material trade secret, trademark, trade name, or copyright could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Despite the Companys precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy certain portions of the Companys products or to obtain and use information regarded as proprietary. A significant portion of the Companys sales are derived from the licensing of its packaged products under "shrink wrap" license agreements that are not signed by licensees and electronic licensing agreements that may be unenforceable under the laws of certain foreign jurisdictions. In addition, the Companys ability to protect its proprietary rights may be affected by the following: Differences in International Law. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect the Companys intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. Third Party Infringement Claims. Third parties may assert infringement claims against the Company in the future. This may result in costly litigation or require the Company to obtain a license to intellectual property rights of such third parties. Such licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Product Concentration The Company anticipates that its MetaFrame product line and related enhancements will constitute the majority of its revenue for the foreseeable future. The Companys ability to generate revenue from its MetaFrame product will depend upon market acceptance of Windows Server Operating Systems and or 28 UNIX Operating Systems. Declines in demand for products based on MetaFrame technology may occur as a result of new competitive product releases, price competition, new products or updates to existing products, lack of success of the Companys strategic partners, technological change or other factors. Need to Attract and Penetrate Large Enterprise Customers The Company intends to expand its ability to reach and penetrate large enterprise customers by adding channel partners and expanding its offering of consulting services. The Companys inability to attract and penetrate large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and generally have longer sales cycles, which could negatively impact the Companys revenues. Additionally, as the Company attempts to attract and penetrate large enterprise customers, it may need to increase corporate branding activities, which will increase the Companys operating expenses, but may not proportionally increase its operating revenues. Need to Expand Channels of Distribution The Company intends to leverage its relationships with hardware and software vendors and systems integrators to encourage them to recommend or distribute the Companys products. In addition, an integral part of the Companys strategy is to expand its ability to reach large enterprise customers by adding channel partners and expanding its offering of consulting services. The Company is currently investing, and intends to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these channels, which could reduce the Companys profits. Reliance Upon Indirect Distribution Channels and Major Distributors The Company relies significantly on independent distributors and resellers for the marketing and distribution of its products. The Company does not control its distributors and resellers. Additionally, the Companys distributors and resellers are not obligated to purchase products from the Company and may also represent other lines of products. Further, the Company may maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances with certain distributors. For example, one such distributor accounted for approximately 14% of accounts receivable as of December 31, 2001. In 2000, the same distributor accounted for 17% of accounts receivable. If the financial condition of such distributors deteriorates and such distributors significantly delay or default on their payment obligations, such delays or defaults could result in a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. Dependence Upon Broad Based Acceptance of ICA Protocol The Company believes that its success in the markets in which it competes will depend upon its ability to make ICA protocol a widely accepted standard for supporting Windows and UNIX applications. If another standard emerges or if the Company otherwise fails to achieve wide acceptance of the ICA protocol as a standard for supporting Windows or UNIX applications, the Companys business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Microsoft includes as a component of Windows Server Operating Systems its Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), which has certain of the capabilities of the Companys ICA protocol, and may offer customers a competitive solution. The Company believes that its success is dependent on its ability to enhance and differentiate its ICA protocol, and foster broad acceptance of the ICA protocol based on its performance, scalability, reliability and enhanced features. In addition, the Companys ability to win broad market acceptance of its ICA protocol will depend upon the degree of success achieved by its strategic partners in marketing their respective platforms, product pricing and customers assessment of its technical, managerial service and support expertise. If another standard emerges or if the Company fails to achieve wide acceptance of the ICA protocol as a standard for supporting Windows and UNIX applications, the Companys business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 29 Potential for Undetected Errors Despite significant testing by the Company and by current and potential customers, new products may contain errors after commencement of commercial shipments. Additionally, the Companys products depend upon certain third party products, which may contain defects and could reduce the performance of the Companys products or render them useless. Since the Companys products are often used in mission critical applications, errors in the Companys products or the products of third parties upon which the Companys products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by the Companys customers. Maintenance of Growth Rate The Companys revenue growth rate in 2002 may not approach the levels attained in recent years. The Companys growth during recent years is largely attributable to the introduction of MetaFrame for Windows in mid 1998. There can be no assurance that the markets in which the Company operates, including the application server market and the Internet products market, will grow in the manner predicted by independent third parties. In addition, to the extent revenue growth continues, the Company believes that its cost of revenues and certain operating expenses will also increase. Due to the fixed nature of a significant portion of such expenses, together with the possibility of slower revenue growth, the Companys income from operations and cash flows from operating and investing activities may decrease as a percentage of revenues in 2002. In Process Research and Development Valuation The Company has in the past re evaluated the amounts charged to in process research and development in connection with certain acquisitions and licensing arrangements. The amount and rate of amortization of such amounts are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the effects of any changes in accounting standards or guidance adopted by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission or the accounting profession. Any changes in accounting standards or guidance adopted by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, may materially adversely affect future results of operations through increased amortization expense. Moreover, no assurance can be given that actual revenues and operating profit attributable to acquired in process research and development will not deviate from the projections used to initially value in process research and development when acquired. Ongoing operations and financial results for acquired assets and licensed technology, and the Company as a whole, are subject to a variety of factors, which may not have been known or estimable at the date of such transactions. Additionally, in 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of certain in process software technologies from ViewSoft, in which it allocated $2.3 million of the purchase price to in process research and development. In April 2001, the Company acquired Sequoia, of which $2.6 million of the purchase price was allocated to in process research and development. The Companys efforts with respect to the acquired technologies currently consist of integration work and any associated design, development or rework that may be required to support the integration of the technology into the Companys anticipated future product offerings. Failure to complete the development of the Companys anticipated future product offerings in their entirety, or in a timely manner, could have a material adverse impact on the Companys financial condition and results of operations. The Company is currently unable to determine the impact of such delays on its business, future results of operations and financial condition. There can be no assurance that the Company will not incur additional charges in subsequent periods to reflect costs associated with completing such projects or that the Company will be successful in its efforts to integrate and further develop these technologies. Role of Mergers and Acquisitions Mergers and acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: difficulties in integration of the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; the risk of diverting managements attention from normal daily operations of the business; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in process research and development; 30 risks of entering markets in which the Company has no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions; the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and an uncertain sales and earnings stream from the acquired entity, which may result in unexpected dilution to the Companys earnings. Mergers and acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that the Companys previous, including the Companys acquisition of Sequoia, or future acquisitions will be successful and will not have a material adverse affect on the Companys business, operating results or financial condition. In addition, there can be no assurance that the combined company resulting from any such acquisition can continue to support the growth achieved by the companies separately. The Company must also focus on its ability to manage and integrate any such acquisition. Failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquired companies could adversely affect the Companys business and operating results. Revenue Recognition Process The Company continually re evaluates its programs, including specific license terms and conditions, to market its current and future products and services. The Company may implement new programs, including offering specified and unspecified enhancements to its current and future product lines. The Company may recognize revenues associated with such enhancements after the initial shipment or licensing of the software product or over the products life cycle. The Company has implemented a new licensing model associated with the release of MetaFrame XP in February 2001. The Company may implement a different licensing model, in certain circumstances, which would result in the recognition of licensing fees over a longer period, which may result in decreasing revenue. The timing of the implementation of such programs, the timing of the release of such enhancements and other factors may impact the timing of the Companys recognition of revenues and related expenses associated with its products, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect the Companys business and operating results. Dependence on Key Personnel The Companys success will depend, in large part, upon the services of a number of key employees. The Company does not have long term employment agreements with any of its key personnel. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with the Company at any time. The effective management of the Companys anticipated growth will depend, in a large part, upon the Companys ability to (i) retain its highly skilled technical, managerial and marketing personnel; and (ii) to attract and maintain replacements for and additions to such personnel in the future. Competition for such personnel may affect the Companys ability to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Product Returns and Price Reductions The Company provides certain of its distributors with product return rights for stock balancing or limited product evaluation. The Company also provides certain of its distributors with price protection rights. To cover these product returns and price protections, the Company has established reserves based on its evaluation of historical trends and current circumstances. These reserves may not be sufficient to cover product returns and price protections in the future, in which case the Companys operating results may be adversely affected. International Operations The Companys continued growth and profitability will require further expansion of its international operations. To successfully expand international sales, the Company must establish additional foreign 31 operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. Such international operations are subject to certain risks, such as: difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; dependence on independent distributors and resellers; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements; variability of foreign economic and political conditions; changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by United States export laws; costs of localizing products and marketing such products in foreign countries; longer accounts receivable payment cycles; potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; and burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. Volatility of Stock Price The market price for the Companys Common Stock has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly to date. The trading price of the Common Stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results, anticipated revenue or earnings growth, analyst reports or recommendations and other events or factors, many of which are beyond the Companys control. In addition, the stock market in general, and The Nasdaq National Market and the market for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock, regardless of the Companys actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such companies. For example, several class action lawsuits were instituted against the Company, its directors, and certain of its officers in 2000 following a decline in the Companys stock price. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of managements attention and resources, which would have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. Management of Growth and Higher Operating Expenses The Company has recently experienced rapid growth in the scope of its operations, the number of its employees and the geographic area of its operations. In addition, the Company has completed certain domestic and international acquisitions. Such growth and assimilation of acquired operations and personnel of such acquired companies has placed and may continue to place a significant strain on the Companys managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage its growth effectively, the Company must continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. The Company believes that it has made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with these expansions. However, its systems, procedures or controls may not be adequate to support its current or future operations. In addition, the Company may not be able to effectively manage this expansion and still achieve the rapid execution necessary to fully exploit the market opportunity for its products and services in a timely and cost effective manner. The Companys future operating results will also depend on its ability to manage its expanding product line, expand its sales and marketing organizations and expand its support organization commensurate with the increasing base of its installed product. 32 The Company plans to increase its professional staff during 2002 as it expands sales, marketing and support and product development efforts, as well as associated administrative systems, to support planned growth and business objectives. As a result of this planned growth in the size of its staff, the Company believes that it may require additional domestic and international facilities during 2002. Although the Company believes that the cost of such additional facilities will not significantly impact its financial position or results of operations, the Company anticipates that operating expenses will increase during 2002 as a result of its planned growth in staff. Such an increase in operating expenses may reduce its income from operations and cash flows from operating activities in 2002. 33 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following discussion about the Companys market risk includes "forward looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements. The analysis methods used by the Company to assess and mitigate risk discussed below should not be considered projections of future events, gains or losses. The Company is exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates which may adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. To mitigate foreign currency and interest rate risk, the Company utilizes derivative financial instruments. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes. The counter parties to the Companys derivative instruments are major financial institutions. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on the Companys financial position at December 31, 2001. Actual results may differ materially. Discussions of the Companys accounting policies for derivatives and hedging activities are included in Notes 2 and 13 of "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements," which appears in Item 8 of this report. Exposure to Exchange Rates A substantial majority of the Companys overseas expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in local currencies, primarily British pounds sterling, Euros, Swiss francs, and Australian dollars. To protect against increases in expenses and the volatility of resulting future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, the Company has established a hedging program. The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency expenditures. The Companys hedging program reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. At December 31, 2001 and 2000, the Company had in place foreign currency forward contracts with a notional amount of $47.9 million and $53.0 million, respectively. The fair value of these contracts at December 31, 2001 and 2000 were $0.2 million and $1.1 million, respectively. Based on a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2001 market rates the fair value of the Companys foreign currency forward contracts would decrease by $4.8 million. Conversely, a hypothetical 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2001 market rates would increase the fair value of the Companys foreign currency forward contracts by $4.8 million. This calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates quantified above, changes in exchange rates may also change the dollar value of sales and affect the volume of sales as competitors products become more or less attractive. The Companys sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates does not factor in a potential change in levels of local currency prices or sales reported in U.S. dollars. The Company does not anticipate any material adverse impact to its consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as a result of these forward foreign exchange contracts. Exposure to Interest Rates In order to better manage its exposure to interest rate risk, in November 2001 the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement. The swap agreement, with a notional amount of $174.6 million converts the floating rate return on the Companys non trading investment portfolio, to a fixed rate. The fair value of the interest rate swap at December 31, 2001 was $0.1 million. Based upon a hypothetical 1% increase in the market interest rate as of December 31, 2001, the fair value of this asset would have decreased by approximately $3.6 million. The Company also maintains a non trading investment portfolio of investment grade, highly liquid, debt securities, which limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer, or type of instrument. The securities in the Companys investment portfolio are not leveraged. The securities classified as available for sale are subject to interest rate risk. The modeling technique used measures the change in fair values arising from an immediate hypothetical shift in market interest rates and assumes that ending fair values include principal plus accrued interest, dividends and reinvestment income. If market interest rates 34 were to increase by 100 basis points from December 31, 2001 and 2000 levels, the fair value of the portfolio would decline by approximately $1.1 million and $10.4 million, respectively. These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on the Companys interest rate swap agreements and non trading investment portfolio. This analysis does not consider the effect of credit risk as a result of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. 
 
