ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We develop, market, license and support access infrastructure software and services that enable effective and efficient enterprise wide deployment and management of applications and information, including those designed for Microsoft Windows operating systems, for UNIX operating systems, such as Sun Solaris, HP UX or IBM AIX, or collectively UNIX operating systems, and for Web based information systems. Our largest source of revenue is the MetaFrame XPTM Presentation Server products. Our MetaFrame products, which we began shipping in the second quarter of 1998, permit organizations to provide access to Windows based, Web based, and UNIX applications without regard to location, network connection or type of client hardware platforms. We market and license our products through multiple channels such as value added resellers, distributors, system integrators and independent software vendors, managed by our worldwide sales force. We also promote our products through relationships with a wide variety of industry participants, including Microsoft Corporation. In May 1997, we entered into a five year joint license, development and marketing agreement with Microsoft, which expired in May 2002. Under that agreement, or the Microsoft Development Agreement, we licensed our multi user Windows NT extensions to Microsoft for inclusion in certain versions of its Windows NT server software. We recognized revenue from the Microsoft Development Agreement ratably over the five year term of the contract in other revenues in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. In May 2002, we signed an agreement with Microsoft to formalize continued access to Microsoft Windows Server source code. Under this agreement, we will have access to source code for current and future Microsoft server operating systems from Windows 2000 Server and beyond, including access to terminal services source code, during the three year term of the agreement. This agreement does not provide for payments to or from Microsoft. Acquisitions We have acquired technology related to our strategic objectives. In April 2001, we acquired Sequoia Software Corporation for $182.6 million in cash. Sequoia provided XML based portal software. The Sequoia technology is a core component of our MetaFrame Secure Access Manager software that was launched in June 2002 as NFuse Elite. In February 2000, we acquired all of the operating assets of Innovex Group, Inc. for approximately $47.8 million. On the date of the acquisition, we paid approximately $28.9 million in cash, including closing costs. Under the terms of the acquisition agreement, we were required to pay the remaining purchase price, plus interest, if certain events occurred. During 2001, these events occurred and, as a result, we paid the remaining purchase price and the associated interest of $10.5 million in cash in August 2001 and $10.7 million in cash in February 2002. We have no remaining contingent obligations. We accounted for these acquisitions under the purchase method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board, or APB, Opinion No. 16, Accounting for Business Combinations. We allocated the cost of the acquisitions to the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Except for the Innovex acquisition, a portion of the acquired intangible assets were related to research and development that had not reached technological feasibility and for which there was no alternative future use. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on our historical experience and on various 14 Table of Contents other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and these estimates form the basis for our judgments concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We periodically evaluate these estimates and judgments based on available information and experience. Actual results could differ from our estimates under different assumptions and conditions. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted. We believe that the accounting policies described below are critical to understanding our business, results of operations and financial condition because they involve more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We have discussed the development, selection and application of our critical accounting policies with the audit committee of our board of directors, and our audit committee has reviewed our disclosure relating to our critical accounting policies in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Other significant accounting policies, primarily those with lower levels of uncertainty than those discussed below, are also critical to understanding our consolidated financial statements. The notes to our consolidated financial statements contain additional information related to our accounting policies and should be read in conjunction with this discussion. Cash Equivalents and Investments. The fair value of certain of our cash equivalents and investments is dependent on the performance of the companies or funds in which we invest, including equity investments that are accounted for under the cost method due to the limited extent of our ownership interest and lack of our ability to exert significant influence, and the volatility inherent in these investment markets. We periodically evaluate the carrying value of our investments to determine if there has been any impairment of value that is other than temporary, which would require us to write down the investments. In assessing potential impairment, we consider the extent to which recorded costs exceed market values, the duration of any decline in market values and the forecasted financial performance of the issuers. During the year ended December 31, 2002, we recorded $1.3 million and during the year ended December 31, 2001, we recorded $7.7 million of write downs resulting from other than temporary declines in fair value of certain of our investments. At December 31, 2002, we had $0.2 million in remaining equity investments classified as long term investments in our consolidated balance sheet. For further information regarding risks related to our cash and investments balances, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and note 2 to our consolidated financial statements. We rely on third party valuations in order to adjust the carrying value of certain of our investments and derivative instruments to fair value at the end of each period. Fair values are based on valuation models that use market quotes and, for certain investments, assumptions as to the creditworthiness of the entities issuing those underlying investments. At December 31, 2002, approximately $63 million in investment securities were pledged as collateral for specified obligations under our synthetic lease. In addition, at December 31, 2002, approximately $109 million in investment securities were pledged as collateral for our credit default contracts. We maintain the ability to manage the composition of the pledged investments and accordingly, these securities are not reflected as restricted investments in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. For further information see notes 10 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements. Provision for Doubtful Accounts Receivable. Our judgment is required in the assessment of the collectibility of our customer accounts and other receivables. We provide for potential uncollectible accounts receivable based on an evaluation of customer specific information, historical collection experience and economic market conditions. If market conditions decline, or if the financial condition of our customers or distributors deteriorates, actual collection experience may not meet our prior expectations and could result in increased bad debt expenses. The allowance for doubtful accounts receivable was $6.1 million at December 31, 2002 and $3.7 million at December 31, 2001. The increase during 2002 represents reserves based on the financial condition of certain distributors, none of which are individually significant. In previous years our bad debt write offs have not been significant. 15 Table of Contents Long lived Assets. The determination of the useful lives of our long lived assets and whether an assets value is impaired involves significant judgment. These judgments include, but are not limited to obsolescence, market conditions and contract life. Useful lives of internal use software, property and equipment are generally from three to seven years. We depreciate buildings over a 40 year period. We review for impairment of long lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be held and used whenever we believe that events or changes in circumstances indicate that we may not fully recover the carrying amount of such assets. Determination of recoverability is based on an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows resulting from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. We base measurement of an impairment loss for long lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets that our management expects to hold and use on the fair value of the asset. We report long lived assets and certain identifiable intangible assets to be disposed of at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value minus the costs to sell such assets. During 2002, we recognized $2.0 million in asset impairment charges primarily due to the consolidation of certain of our offices that resulted in the abandonment of certain leasehold improvements. As of December 31, 2002, we have determined that there were no other triggering events requiring additional impairment analysis. Effective January 1, 2002, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard, or SFAS, No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, which establishes a single accounting model for the impairment or disposal of long lived assets, including discontinued operations. SFAS No. 144 supersedes SFAS No. 121 and APB Opinion No. 30, Reporting the Results of Operations Reporting the Effects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and Transactions. Our adoption of these policies did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations and financial position. Core and Product Technology Assets. We review acquired core and product technology assets for impairment on a periodic basis by comparing the estimated net realizable value to the unamortized cost of the technology. The core and product technology assets acquired in our Sequoia acquisition form the basis for our MetaFrame Secure Access Manager product, launched in June 2002 as NFuse Elite. The recoverability of this technology is primarily dependent upon our ability to commercialize these products. The estimated net realizable value of the purchased Sequoia technology is based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows associated with our MetaFrame Secure Access Manager. Our revenues are forecasted based on data received from pilot evaluations and early adopters, rate projections on our installed customer base, and estimates from our sales channels and end customer sales force. Our assumptions about future revenues and expenses require significant judgment associated with the forecast of MetaFrame Secure Access Manager. Due to the lack of historical data related to MetaFrame Secure Access Manager, actual revenues and costs could vary significantly from these forecasted amounts. As of December 31, 2002, we estimated that the net realizable value of these core and product technology assets is greater than the $24.5 million unamortized cost of these assets. If these products are not ultimately accepted by our channel or entities with which we have technology relationships or customers, and there is no alternative future use for this technology, we could determine that some or all of the remaining $24.5 million carrying value of the related core and product technology assets are impaired. In the event of impairment, we could be required to incur a charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Goodwill and Other Intangibles. At December 31, 2002, we had $152.4 million in indefinite lived goodwill and other intangibles primarily related to our acquisition of Sequoia. We operate in a single market consisting of the design, development, marketing and support of access infrastructure software and services for enterprise applications. Our revenues are derived from sales in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, and Asia Pacific regions. These three geographic regions constitute our reportable segments. See note 12 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our geographic segments. We evaluate goodwill along these geographic segments. Substantially all of our goodwill at December 31, 2002 was associated with our Americas reportable segment. On January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As a result of adopting SFAS No. 142, our goodwill and certain intangible assets are no longer amortized but are subject to an annual impairment test. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, we ceased amortizing goodwill with a net book 16 Table of Contents value at January 1, 2002 of $152.4 million, including $10.1 million of acquired workforce previously classified as purchased intangible assets. Excluding goodwill, we have no intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives. We use judgment in assessing goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value. Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. As of December 31, 2002, we concluded that we could realize our goodwill and other intangibles based upon projected discounted cash flows. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy and product portfolio, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill and other intangible assets could change in the future, which could result in non cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Current and Deferred Tax Assets. We are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. We determined the $55.1 million carrying value of our net deferred tax assets based upon certain estimates and assumptions, including the assumption that we will be able to generate enough future tax deductions in certain tax jurisdictions. If these estimates and assumptions change in the future, we could be required to record valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets resulting in additional income tax expenses. Revenue Recognition. The accounting related to revenue recognition in the software industry is complex and affected by interpretations of the rules and an understanding of industry practices, both of which are subject to change. As a result, revenue recognition accounting rules require us to make significant judgments. In addition, our judgment is required in assessing the probability of collection, which is generally based on evaluation of customer specific information, historical collection experience and economic market conditions. We market and license software products through value added resellers, channel distributors, system integrators and independent software vendors, managed by our worldwide sales force. Our software licenses are generally perpetual, and are delivered by means of traditional packaged products and electronically, typically under volume based licensing programs. Our packaged products are typically purchased by medium and small sized businesses with fewer locations and the software license is delivered with the packaged product. Volume based license arrangements are used with more complex multi server environments typically found in larger business enterprises that deploy our products on a department or enterprise wide basis, which could require differences in product features and functionality at various customer locations. The end customer license agreement with enterprise customers is typically customized based on these factors. Once we receive a purchase order from the channel distributor, the volume based licenses are electronically delivered to the customer with software activation keys that enable the feature configuration ordered by the end customer. Depending on the size of the enterprise, software may be delivered indirectly by the channel distributor or directly by us pursuant to a purchase order from the channel distributor. We recognize revenue when it is earned. Our revenue recognition policies are in compliance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Statement of Position, or SOP, 97 2 (as amended by SOP 98 4 and SOP 98 9) and related interpretations, Software Revenue Recognition. We recognize revenue when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of the arrangement exists; delivery has occurred and we have no remaining obligations; the fee is fixed or determinable; and collectibility is probable. We define these four criteria as follows: Persuasive evidence of the arrangement exists. We recognize revenue on packaged product upon shipment to distributors and resellers. For packaged product sales, it is our customary practice to require a purchase order from distributors who have previously negotiated a master packaged product distribution or resale agreement. For volume based licensing, we typically require a purchase order from the distributor or reseller and an executed standard software license agreement from the end customer. We require a purchase order for training and services. 17 Table of Contents Delivery has occurred and we have no remaining obligations. Our standard delivery method is free on board shipping point. Consequently, we consider delivery of our packaged product to have occurred when the products are shipped to distributors pursuant to an agreement and purchase order. We consider delivery of licenses under electronic licensing agreements to have occurred when the related products are shipped and the end customer has been electronically provided with the licenses that include the activation keys that allow the end customer to take immediate possession of the software. For training and service revenue recognition, we fulfill our obligation when the services are performed. The fee is fixed or determinable. In the normal course of business, we do not provide end customers the right to a refund of any portion of their license fees or extended payment terms. When we sell our software products separately, we determine vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, by the price charged for each product. In software arrangements that include the rights to multiple software products, post contract customer support, or PCS, and or other services, we allocate the total arrangement fee among each deliverable based on the relative fair value of each of the deliverables based on VSOE. If we cannot objectively determine the fair value of each undelivered element based on VSOE, we defer revenue until all elements are delivered, all services have been performed, or until fair value can be objectively determined. Collectibility is probable. We determine collectibility on a customer by customer basis. We typically sell to distributors or resellers for whom there are histories of successful collection. New customers are subject to a credit review process that evaluates the customers financial position and ultimately their ability to pay. Customers are subject to an ongoing credit review process. If we determine from the outset of an arrangement that collectibility is not probable, we defer revenue recognition until customer payment is received and the other parameters of revenue recognition described above have been achieved. Our judgment is required in assessing the probability of collection, which is generally based on evaluation of customer specific information, historical experience and economic market conditions. If market conditions decline, or, if the financial condition of our distributors or end customers deteriorates, we may be unable to determine that collectibility is probable, and we could be required to defer the recognition of revenues until we receive customer payment. For certain software products that are only sold bundled with PCS, we allocate revenue to the delivered software product using the residual method. Under the residual method, we do not sell the software products separately and thus we are generally unable to determine VSOE of fair value for the product. Therefore, we allocate discounts inherent in the arrangement entirely to the software product and the portion of the fee initially allocated to PCS and deferred is generally higher than in arrangements with established VSOE for the software product. Depending on future product releases or changes in customer demand, we may offer additional products that are only sold bundled with PCS. If we do this, the use of the residual method will become more prevalent, which could impact the timing of our revenue recognition since more of the sales proceeds would be allocated to the PCS portion of the arrangement and recognized over the PCS period. We also sell PCS separately through our Citrix Subscription Advantage renewal program, and we determine VSOE by the renewal price charged. We base technical service and PCS revenues from customer maintenance fees for ongoing customer support and product updates and upgrades on the price charged or derived value of the undelivered elements and are recognized ratably over the term of the contract, which is typically 12 to 24 months. We include technical service revenues in net revenues in the consolidated statements of income. In the normal course of business, we do not permit product returns, but we do provide most of our distributors and value added resellers with stock balancing and price protection rights. Stock balancing rights permit distributors to return products to us, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of our products. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors or resellers if we lower our prices for such products. We establish provisions for estimated returns for stock balancing and price protection rights, as well as other sales allowances, concurrently with the recognition of revenue. The provisions are established based upon consideration of a variety of factors, including, among other things, historical return rates for both specific products and distributors, estimated distributor inventory levels by product, the impact of any new product releases and projected economic conditions. Actual product returns for stock balancing and price protection provisions incurred are, however, 18 Table of Contents dependent upon future events, including the amount of stock balancing activity by our distributors and the level of distributor inventories at the time of any price adjustments. We continually monitor the factors that influence the pricing of our products and distributor inventory levels and makes adjustments to these provisions when we believe actual returns and other allowances could differ from established reserves. Our ability to recognize revenues upon shipment to our distributors is predicated on our ability to reliably estimate future product returns and rotation. If actual return experience or changes in market condition impairs our ability to estimate returns and rotation, we would be required to defer the recognition of revenue until the delivery of the product to the end user customer. Allowances for estimated product returns amounted to approximately $10.5 million at December 31, 2002 and $8.3 million at December 31, 2001. We have not reduced and have no current plans to reduce our prices for inventory currently held by distributors or resellers. Accordingly, there were no reserves required for price protection at December 31, 2002 or 2001. We record estimated reductions to revenue for customer programs and incentive offerings including volume based incentives. If market conditions were to decline, we could take actions to increase our customer incentive offerings and possibly result in an incremental reduction to our revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, defines a fair value method of accounting for issuance of stock options and other equity instruments. Under the fair value method, compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized over the service period, which is usually the vesting period. Pursuant to SFAS No. 123, companies are not required to adopt the fair value method of accounting for employee stock based transactions. Companies are permitted to account for such transactions under APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, but are required to disclose in a note to the consolidated financial statements pro forma net income and per share amounts as if a company had applied the methods prescribed by SFAS No. 123. We apply APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations, which do not require us to recognize compensation cost, in accounting for stock options granted to employees and non employee directors, and we have complied with the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123. Except for non employee directors, we have not granted any options to non employees. For further information regarding our stock option plans, see note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. The following discussion relating to the individual financial statement captions, our overall financial performance, operations and financial position should be read in conjunction with the factors and events described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results which could impact our future performance and financial position. 19 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of income data and presentation of that data as a percentage of change from period to period. Year Ended December 31, 2002 2001 Compared to Compared to 2002 2001 2000 2001 2000 Net revenues $ 527,448 $ 591,629 $ 470,446 (10.8 )% 25.8 % Cost of revenues (excluding amortization, presented separately below) 19,030 29,848 29,054 (36.2 ) 2.7 Gross margin 508,418 561,781 441,392 (9.5 ) 27.3 Operating expenses: Research and development 68,923 67,699 50,622 1.8 33.7 Sales, marketing and support 235,393 224,108 180,384 5.0 24.2 General and administrative 88,946 85,212 58,685 4.4 45.2 Amortization of intangible assets 11,296 48,831 30,395 (76.9 ) 60.7 In process research and development 2,580 * * Write down of technology 9,081 * * Total operating expenses 404,558 428,430 329,167 (5.6 ) 30.2 Income from operations 103,860 133,351 112,225 (22.1 ) 18.8 Interest income 30,943 42,006 41,313 (26.3 ) 1.7 Interest expense (18,163 ) (20,553 ) (17,099 ) (11.6 ) 20.2 Other expense, net (3,483 ) (2,253 ) (1,422 ) 54.6 58.4 Income before income taxes 113,157 152,551 135,017 (25.8 ) 13.0 Income taxes 19,237 47,291 40,505 (59.3 ) 16.8 Net income $ 93,920 $ 105,260 $ 94,512 (10.8 ) 11.4 * not meaningful. Net Revenues. Our operations consist of the design, development, marketing and support of access infrastructure software and services that enable effective and efficient enterprise wide deployment and management of applications and information. We present net revenues in the following three categories outlined below: License Revenue, Technical Services Revenue, and Royalty Revenue. License Revenue primarily represents fees related to the licensing of our MetaFrame products, Subscription Advantage (our terminology for PCS), additional user licenses and management products (such as load balancing and resource management products). Technical Services Revenue consists primarily of technical support services, product training and certification, and consulting services related to implementation of our software products. We recognize Technical Services and PCS revenues from customer maintenance fees or ongoing customer support ratably over the term of the contract, which is typically 12 to 24 months. Royalty Revenue represents the fees recognized in connection with the Microsoft Development Agreement, which expired in May 2002. The decrease in net revenues in 2002 was due primarily to a decrease in the number of MetaFrame licenses sold, which resulted from a decrease in packaged product sales due to an overall weakness in information technology spending and a reduction in packaged product inventory held by our distributors. In the near term, we do not anticipate further material reductions in packaged product inventory held by our distributors. The decrease in packaged product sales was partially offset by an increase in volume based licensing sales, mainly to medium and large customers. In addition, the decrease in net revenue also resulted 20 Table of Contents from a significant decline in Royalty Revenue due to the expiration of the Microsoft Development Agreement in May 2002. The increase in net revenues in 2001 was primarily attributable to an increase in License Revenue resulting from an increase in the number of MetaFrame licenses sold for Windows operating systems, specifically due to market acceptance of our MetaFrame XP access infrastructure software introduced in February 2001. The increase in net revenues in 2001 also resulted from an increase in Technical Services Revenue due primarily to an increase in larger scale volume based licensing arrangements that typically require professional services to ensure successful implementation of our technologies. Deferred revenues as of December 31, 2002 primarily related to Citrix Subscription Advantage and Technical Services revenues. Excluding those deferred revenues associated with the Microsoft Development Agreement, deferred Citrix Subscription Advantage and Technical Services Revenues increased approximately $32 million as compared to December 31, 2001. This increase was due primarily to increased renewals of Citrix Subscription Advantage. An analysis of our net revenues is presented below: Year Ended December 31, Revenue Revenue Growth Growth 2002 2001 2000 2001 to 2002 2000 to 2001 License Revenue $ 468,827 $ 511,147 $ 400,156 (8.3 )% 27.7 % Technical Services Revenue 44,539 40,652 30,392 9.6 33.8 Royalty Revenue 14,082 39,830 39,898 (64.6 ) (0.2 ) Net Revenues $ 527,448 $ 591,629 $ 470,446 (10.8 ) 25.8 International and Segment Revenues. International revenues (sales outside of the United States) accounted for approximately 53.7% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2002, 48.0% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 40.3% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2000. During 2002, the significant increase in our international revenues as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to a weakness in packaged product sales in the United States and the expiration of the Microsoft Development Agreement in May 2002. During 2001, the significant increase in our international revenues as a percentage of net revenues was primarily the result of increased sales and marketing efforts and continued demand for our products in Europe and Asia, as well as the economic impact of slower information technology spending in the United States during 2001. We expect that the difficult economic conditions that existed in 2002 will persist in 2003. An analysis of our geographic segment net revenue as a percentage of net revenue is presented below: Year Ended December 31, Revenue Revenue Growth Growth 2002 2001 2000 2001 to 2002 2000 to 2001 Americas(1) 48.4 % 48.9 % 52.8 % (11.6 )% 16.4 % EMEA(2) 39.7 36.6 33.7 (3.3 ) 36.6 Asia Pacific 9.2 7.8 5.0 5.2 95.8 Other(3) 2.7 6.7 8.5 (64.6 ) (0.2 ) Consolidated net revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (10.8 ) 25.8 (1) Our Americas segment is comprised of the United States, Canada and Latin America. (2) Defined as Europe, Middle East and Africa. (3) Represents royalty fees in connection with the Microsoft Development Agreement, which expired during May 2002. With respect to our geographic segment revenues, the decrease in net revenues during 2002 as compared to 2001 was due primarily to the factors mentioned above, as well as a decline in packaged product sales in Europe. During 2001, revenues notably increased in our Asia Pacific segment, particularly due to increased 21 Table of Contents sales in Japan, and in our EMEA segment, particularly due to increased sales in Europe. For additional information on international revenues, please refer to note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. Cost of Revenues. Cost of revenues consisted primarily of the cost of royalties, product media and duplication, manuals, packaging materials and shipping expense. Cost of revenues also consisted of compensation and other personnel related costs of providing consulting services. We expensed all development costs incurred in connection with the Microsoft Development Agreement as incurred in cost of other revenues. Our cost of revenues excludes amortization of core technology, which is shown as a component of amortization expense in our consolidated statements of income. During 2001, we implemented a new enterprise resource planning system. As a result of this implementation, we have an enhanced ability to obtain information regarding personnel related costs of providing consulting services revenues. The decrease in the cost of revenues for 2002 as compared to 2001, is primarily attributable to our ability to identify certain non revenue generating services expenses and classify such costs as operating expenses. Volume based license sales are typically fulfilled with a nominal level of product media and the licenses are delivered electronically. The cost of fulfilling such sales is less than traditional packaged product sales, thereby reducing costs of revenues as a percentage of revenue. The increase in cost of revenues for 2001 was due to an overall increase in our packaged product sales and increases in compensation and other costs of providing services revenues. These increases were offset in part by a reduction of the level of inventory necessary to fulfill customer orders due to increased market acceptance of volume based licenses. Gross Margin. Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 96.4% for 2002, 95.0% for 2001 and 93.8% for 2000. The increase in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue from 2001 to 2002 was primarily due to the decrease in cost of revenues as discussed above. The increase in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to larger reserves for obsolete inventory recorded in 2000. To a lesser extent, the increase in gross margin during 2001 was also due to an increase in volume based licensing, as discussed above. We currently anticipate that in the next 12 months, gross margin as a percentage of net revenues will remain relatively unchanged as compared with current levels. However, gross margin could fluctuate from time to time based on a number of factors attributable to the cost of revenues as described above. As further discussed below, during 2002 we reduced our worldwide workforce by approximately 10% (approximately 200 employees) and consolidated certain functions from our Salt Lake City, Utah and Columbia, Maryland facilities into our Fort Lauderdale, Florida facility. As a result of such actions, we incurred expenses of approximately $10.9 million, primarily for severance and related facility expenses, of which approximately $7.0 million were included in research and development expenses, $2.8 million were included in sales, marketing and support expenses and $1.1 million were included in general and administrative expenses. We currently expect that increases in insurance premiums and higher foreign currency expenses, impacted by a weaker dollar exchange rate, and investments in new products, will offset savings from these actions. Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses consisted primarily of personnel related costs. We expensed all development costs included in the research and development of software products and enhancements to existing products as incurred except for core technologies acquired. Research and development expenses increased during 2002 primarily from an increase in staffing and associated salaries that primarily related to the Sequoia acquisition in the second quarter of 2001, additional costs for severance for the worldwide workforce reduction, and relocation and facility related charges associated with the consolidation of our Salt Lake City, Utah and Columbia, Maryland development teams into our remaining engineering facilities during 2002. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in costs for third party software, external consultants and developers and a decrease in personnel costs due to the worldwide workforce reduction. Research and development expenses increased in 2001 primarily from additional staffing, associated salaries and related expenses. The increase in 2001 was also due to costs incurred for third party software and 22 Table of Contents external consultants and developers used to expand and enhance our product lines, including feature releases of MetaFrame and research and development efforts on anticipated future product offerings. Sales, Marketing and Support Expenses. Sales, marketing and support expenses increased during 2002 primarily from additional end customer sales personnel hired during 2001 and 2002 particularly for medium to large customers, an increase in staffing and associated salaries related to the Sequoia acquisition during 2001, and severance charges associated with our worldwide workforce reduction. To a lesser extent, the reallocation of certain non revenue generating services expense from cost of revenues to operating expenses also contributed to the increase. The increase was partially offset by a reduction in marketing costs due to a refocus in marketing programs spending based on the current operating environment, and the reallocation of certain overhead expenses to other departments, primarily depreciation expense to certain general and administrative cost centers. Sales, marketing and support expenses increased in 2001 primarily from increased personnel for sales, services and marketing and associated salaries, commissions and related expenses focused on our sales, consulting and marketing efforts. Included in such marketing efforts in 2001 was the expansion of our end customer sales force in connection with marketing to large corporate enterprise accounts. The increase was also due to a higher level of marketing programs directed at customer and business partner acquisition and retention, and additional promotional activities related to specific products, such as MetaFrame XP introduced in February 2001. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased in 2002 primarily from a reallocation of certain overhead expenses from other departments to general and administrative expenses, primarily depreciation expense from certain sales, marketing and support cost centers into certain general and administrative cost centers. General and administrative expenses increased in 2001 primarily from increased staff, associated salaries and related expenses necessary to support overall increases in the scope of our operations. The increase during 2001 also resulted from increased depreciation from our enterprise resource planning system implemented in 2001, as well as the reallocation of certain overhead costs from other departments into certain general and administrative cost centers and an increase in consulting and accounting fees. Amortization of Intangible Assets. On January 1, 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Under the new rules, we no longer amortize goodwill and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives but subject them to an annual impairment test. At the date of adoption, we had unamortized goodwill, including acquired workforce, in the amount of $152.4 million, which is no longer amortized. The decrease in amortization of intangible assets during 2002 was substantially due to the adoption of SFAS No. 142. Other intangibles of $36.6 million at January 1, 2002 continue to be amortized over their useful lives. As of December 31, 2002, we had unamortized identified intangible assets with estimable useful lives in the net amount of $30.8 million. We recorded $11.3 million during 2002 and $48.8 million, during 2001 in amortization expense. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, we completed the required impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets at the date of adoption and again during the fourth quarter of 2002. There were no impairment charges recorded as a result of the adoption of SFAS No. 142 or impairment tests. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results. The increase in amortization of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets in 2001 was primarily due to our acquisition of Sequoia in April 2001. This acquisition resulted in additional goodwill and identifiable intangible assets of approximately $169.9 million at the date of acquisition. Additionally, for 2001, the increase was also due to additional goodwill of approximately $16.2 million associated with contingent purchase price payments related to the acquisition of Innovex. In Process Research and Development. In April 2001, we acquired Sequoia, of which $2.6 million of the purchase price was allocated to in process research and development, or IPR&D. The amounts allocated to 23 Table of Contents IPR&D had not yet reached technological feasibility, had no alternative future use and were written off at the time of the acquisition. There were no write offs of IPR&D during 2002. Write Down of Technology. We periodically review our finite lived intangible assets to determine if any impairment exists. In June 1998, we completed the acquisition of APM Ltd., or APM. The acquired core technology consisted primarily of a Java software product that would operate in a MetaFrame server environment. At the time of the acquisition, we anticipated that there would be a growing demand for Java client applications. After the acquisition, the market did not develop as we originally anticipated. In the second quarter of 2000, we changed the Java application server product to a Java Performance Pack product, which adds performance enhancements and management tools to our other products. By the fourth quarter of 2000, we had developed a Java Performance Pack and had assessed the market demand for this technology. As of December 31, 2000, we did not believe that there were sufficient projected cash flows to support the net book value of the core technology associated with the APM acquisition. In addition, we determined that there was no alternative future use for the acquired technology. As a result, we recorded a write down of $7.3 million, representing the net book value of the APM core technology as of December 31, 2000. In July 1998, we completed the acquisition of VDOnet Corporation Ltd., or VDOnet. The acquired core technology consisted primarily of the ICA Video Services project, which allowed video applications and applications containing videos to be viewed on an ICA client. Subsequent development efforts resulted in the VideoFrame 1.0 product, which shipped in the third quarter of 1999, but resulted in few sales to end customers. After the acquisition, we explored alternative uses for the acquired technology. By the third quarter of 2000, we had explored uses related primarily to delivering video applications in a server based computing environment and video streaming with ICA devices. In the fourth quarter of 2000, we reviewed potential modifications to our cash flow projections based on identified alternative uses for the technology. As a result of our evaluation, we did not believe that there were sufficient projected cash flows to support the carrying value of the core technology. As a result, we recorded a write down of $1.8 million, representing the net book value of the VDOnet core technology as of December 31, 2000. Interest Income. Interest income decreased during 2002 primarily due to a decrease in interest rates. During 2002, we terminated an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of $174.6 million and in December 2002, we sold the investments underlying this swap agreement. As a result, the decrease in interest income during 2002 was partially offset by interest income of approximately $3.4 million recognized as a result of the termination of this interest rate swap and the hedging relationship. For more information see Liquidity and Capital Resources and note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. Interest income increased in 2001 as compared to 2000 principally from our decision to change the composition of our investment portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2000 from tax exempt and taxable to predominantly taxable securities, partially offset by a decrease in interest rates during 2001. Interest Expense. The decrease in interest expense for 2002 as compared to 2001 was due primarily to interest expense incurred during 2001 on contingent payments associated with the Innovex acquisition. The increase in interest expense for 2001 as compared to 2000 was primarily due to interest on contingent payments associated with the Innovex acquisition, as well as the accretion of the original issue discount related to the zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures issued in March 1999. Other Expense, Net. Other expense, net is primarily comprised of other than temporary declines in the value of our equity investments and realized gains (losses) on the sale of available for sale investments, as well as, remeasurement and foreign currency transaction gains (losses). The increase in other expense, net for 2002 as compared to other expense, net in 2001 was the result of $2.1 million of losses from other than temporary declines in the fair value of certain of our equity investments and realized losses on the sale of available for sale securities, as well as approximately $1.1 million in remeasurement and foreign currency transaction losses. The change in other expense, net for 2001 as compared to other expense, net for 2000 was the result of $7.7 million of losses recorded in 2001 resulting from other than temporary declines in the fair value of certain of our equity investments, as well as approximately $2.4 million in remeasurement and foreign currency 24 Table of Contents transaction losses partially offset by realized gains of $8.0 million associated with purchases and sales of available for sale securities and associated contracts. Income Taxes. The decrease in the effective tax rate from 31% in 2001 to 17% in 2002 was due primarily to the adoption of SFAS No. 142, pursuant to which amortization of goodwill, which previously increased taxable income in the determination of our effective tax rate, ceased. The reduction in the tax rate was also due to higher tax credits related to our foreign operations and research and development, and the cessation of revenues from the Microsoft Development Agreement, which expired in May 2002. The increase in the effective tax rate from 30% in 2000 to 31% in 2001 resulted primarily from non deductible goodwill associated with the acquisition of Sequoia offset in part by a rate decrease resulting from increased foreign earnings which were taxed at lower foreign tax rates. Liquidity and Capital Resources During 2002, we generated positive operating cash flows of $187.1 million. These cash flows related primarily to net income of $93.9 million, adjusted for, among other things, tax benefits from the exercise of non statutory stock options and disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options of $25.7 million, non cash charges, including depreciation and amortization expenses of $41.4 million, provisions for product returns of $25.3 million (primarily due to our stock rotation program) and the accretion of original issue discount and amortization of financing costs on our convertible subordinated debentures of $17.7 million. These cash inflows were partially offset by an aggregate decrease in cash flow from our operating assets and liabilities of $16.9 million. Our investing activities provided $0.1 million of cash consisting primarily of the net proceeds, after reinvestment, from sales and maturities of investments of $29.0 million, offset by the expenditure of $19.1 million for the purchase of property and equipment and net cash paid for acquisitions (a contingent payment resulting from the February 2000 Innovex acquisition) of approximately $10.7 million. Our financing activities used cash of $184.2 million related primarily to the expenditure of $192.1 million for the stock and debt repurchase programs, partially offset by the proceeds received from employee stock compensation plans and the sale of put warrants of $8.0 million. During 2001, we generated positive operating cash flows of $229.8 million. These cash flows related primarily to net income of $105.3 million, adjusted for, among other things, tax benefits from the exercise of non statutory stock options and disqualifying dispositions of incentive stock options of $28.0 million, non cash charges, including depreciation and amortization expenses of $79.6 million, provisions for product returns of $22.5 million (primarily due to our stock rotation program) and the accretion of original issue discount and amortization of financing costs on our convertible subordinated debentures of $17.9 million. These cash inflows were partially offset by an aggregate decrease in cash flow from our operating assets and liabilities of $38.3 million. Our investing activities used $382.2 million of cash consisting primarily of net cash paid for acquisitions (primarily in connection with the acquisition of Sequoia) of $183.8 million, the net purchase of investments of $137.9 million and $60.6 million for our purchase of property and equipment and costs associated with our enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system implementation. Approximately $12.0 million was capitalized through December 31, 2001, related to our ERP system. We used $83.0 million in cash in financing activities related primarily to our expenditure of $210.2 million for stock repurchase programs, partially offset by the proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock compensation plans of $117.4 million and $12.0 million generated from premiums received upon the sale of put warrants. Cash and Investments As of December 31, 2002, we had $719.4 million in cash and investments, including $142.7 million in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we had $186.4 million in working capital at December 31, 2002. The $27.3 million decrease in cash and investments as compared to December 31, 2001, is due primarily to continued common stock and debt repurchases, capital expenditures and a contingent acquisition payment as discussed above, partially offset by positive cash flow from operations. We generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in investment grade, highly liquid securities to allow for flexibility in the event of immediate cash 25 Table of Contents needs. Our short and long term investments, other than $0.2 million of equity investments, consist of interest bearing securities. In December 2000, we invested $158.1 million in a trust managed by an investment advisor. The purpose of the trust is to maintain sufficient liquidity in the event that our debentures are redeemed in March 2004. Our investment in the trust matures on March 22, 2004, and comprises all of the trusts assets. The trusts assets primarily consist of AAA rated zero coupon corporate securities. The trust entered into a credit risk swap agreement with the investment advisor, which effectively increased the yield on the trusts assets and for which value the trust assumed the credit risk of ten investment grade companies. The effective yield of the trust, including the credit risk swap agreement, is 6.72% and the principal balance will accrete to $195 million in March 2004. Therefore, beginning with the quarter ending March 31, 2003, we will classify the investment as a short term investment in our consolidated balance sheet to reflect the amount that will be due within one year of the balance sheet date. We record our investment in the trust and the underlying investments and swap as held to maturity zero coupon corporate security in our consolidated financial statements. We do not recognize changes in the fair value of the held to maturity investment unless a decline in the fair value of the trust is other than temporary, in which case we would recognize a loss in earnings. Our investment is at risk to the extent that one of the underlying corporate securities has a credit event resulting in non payment to the counterparty that may include bankruptcy, dissolution, or insolvency of the issuers. There have been no losses associated with the trusts underlying corporate securities to date. The amortized cost of our investment in the trust was approximately $180.4 million at December 31, 2002 and $169.0 million at December 31, 2001, which we classified as long term corporate investments in our consolidated balance sheets. At December 31, 2002, the fair value of the trusts assets was $180.2 million. In addition, we have invested in other instruments with similar credit risk features. This means that these investments are at risk to the extent that the entities issuing the underlying corporate securities have credit events above specified amounts that result in a loss to the counterparty. There have been no credit events associated with the entities issuing the underlying corporate securities to date. For more information see notes 4 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements. In November 2001, we entered into an interest rate swap agreement with a notional amount of approximately $174.6 million. The interest rate swap agreement effectively converted a like amount of floating rate notes in our investment portfolio to a synthetic zero coupon investment due in March 2004 with a maturity value of approximately $190 million. In October 2002, we terminated this interest rate swap agreement. Upon termination, we received a cash payment of $9.2 million as settlement under the swap agreement, and gained approximately $2.4 million in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes. We previously accounted for the interest rate swap as a cash flow hedge in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 133. During December 2002, certain investments underlying the swap were sold, and hedge accounting was terminated and the associated other comprehensive income was recognized through earnings. Accounts Receivable, Net At December 31, 2002, we had approximately $69.5 million in accounts receivable, net of allowances. The modest increase in accounts receivable as compared to 2001 is primarily attributed to an increase in sales in the Asia Pacific region for the fourth quarter of 2002 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2001, partially offset by an increase in worldwide allowances. From time to time, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances from our distributors or customers, which are comprised of large business enterprises, governments and small and medium sized businesses. If the financial condition of our distributors or customers deteriorates, our operating results could be adversely affected. One such distributor accounted for approximately 7% of gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2002. In 2001, this distributor accounted for 14% of gross accounts receivable. During these periods, no other distributor or customer accounted for more than 10% of accounts receivable. 26 Table of Contents Convertible Subordinated Debentures In March 1999, we sold $850 million principal amount at maturity of our zero coupon convertible subordinated debentures due in March 2019, in a private placement. The debentures were priced with a yield to maturity of 5.25%. Our net proceeds were approximately $291.9 million, net of original issue discount and net of debt issuance costs of $9.6 million. Except under limited circumstances, we will pay no interest prior to maturity. The security holders can convert the debentures at any time on or before the maturity date at a conversion rate of 14.0612 shares of our common stock for each $1,000 principal amount at maturity of the debentures, subject to adjustment in certain events. We can redeem the debentures on or after March 22, 2004, and the holders of the debentures can require us to repurchase the debentures on fixed dates and at set redemption prices (equal to the issue price plus accrued original issue discount) beginning on March 22, 2004. Accordingly, beginning with the quarter ended March 31, 2003, we will classify the debentures as a current liability on our consolidated balance sheet to reflect the amount that will be payable on demand within one year of the balance sheet date. We will maintain sufficient liquidity in the event that holders of the debentures require us to redeem or we elect to repurchase the debentures. In October 2000, our board of directors approved a program authorizing us to spend up to $25 million to repurchase debentures in open market purchases. Additionally, in April 2002 our board of directors granted us the additional authority to repurchase up to $100 million in debentures through private transactions, bringing our total repurchase authority up to $125 million. As of December 31, 2002, we have repurchased 76,000 units for approximately $29.9 million, which represents $76.0 million in principal amount at maturity. During 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 145, Rescission of FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and Technical Corrections earlier than required, and therefore we recorded an operating gain of approximately $1.6 million during 2002 as a result of our debenture repurchases. The board of directors limited authorization to repurchase the debentures allows us to repurchase debentures when market conditions are favorable. In December 2000, we invested $158.1 million in investments accounted for as held to maturity corporate securities to maintain sufficient liquidity in the event that our debentures are redeemed in March 2004. Based on the $195.0 million expected maturity value of the investments in March 2004, the proceeds of the investments will be sufficient to fund the redemption of approximately 55% of the debentures, if required. We believe that we will have sufficient cash and investments to fund the redemption of the remaining debentures in 2004, if required. Stock Repurchase Program Our board of directors has authorized $600 million of repurchase authority under our stock repurchase program, in order to manage actual and anticipated dilution. We record all repurchased shares as treasury stock. We are authorized to make open market purchases of our common stock using general corporate funds. During 2002, we purchased 9,300,000 shares of outstanding common stock on the open market for approximately $75.7 million (at an average per share price of $8.14). From time to time, we enter into arrangements with financial institutions as part of our share repurchase program in order to lower our average cost to acquire shares. These arrangements are described below. We were party to two agreements, executed during 2001 and 2000, with a large financial institution, to purchase approximately 7.3 million shares of our common stock at various times in private transactions. Under the terms of the agreements, we paid this institution an aggregate of $150 million, with the ultimate number of shares repurchased dependent on market conditions. In May 2002, the agreements were terminated and, upon termination, we received 3.0 million of the remaining shares. We received a total of 7,209,286 shares pursuant to these agreements. During 2002, we entered into a new agreement, as amended, with this financial institution in a private transaction to purchase up to 3.8 million shares of our common stock at various times through February 2003. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we paid $25 million to this institution during the third quarter of 2002. During 2002, we received 2,655,469 shares under this agreement with a total value of 27 Table of Contents $18.5 million. The agreement matured in February 2003 and we received 390,830 of the remaining shares with a total value of $6.5 million. During 2002, we entered into two private structured stock repurchase transactions with a large financial institution. Under the terms of the first agreement and in exchange for an up front payment of $25 million, we were entitled to receive shares of our common stock or a predetermined cash amount at the expiration of the agreement dependent upon the closing price of our common stock at maturity. Upon expiration of the agreement in December 2002, we received approximately $29.3 million in cash. Under the terms of the second agreement and in exchange for an up front payment of $25 million, we are entitled to receive approximately 2.2 million shares of our common stock or a predetermined cash amount at expiration of the agreement in March 2003. The form of settlement at maturity of the second transaction will be dependent upon the closing market price of our common stock. We sell put warrants that entitle the holder of each warrant to sell to us, generally by physical delivery, one share of our common stock at a specified price. During 2002, we sold 2,300,000 put warrants at an average strike price of $11.10 and received premium proceeds of $3.3 million. During 2002, we paid $42.9 million for the purchase of 2,050,000 shares upon the exercise of outstanding put warrants, and 600,000 put warrants expired unexercised. As of December 31, 2002, 950,000 put warrants with exercise prices ranging from $7.18 to $12.58 were outstanding, and expired on various dates between January and March 2003. As of December 31, 2002, we had a total potential repurchase obligation of approximately $9.9 million associated with the outstanding put warrants, of which $7.3 million is classified as a put warrant obligation on our consolidated balance sheet. The remaining $2.6 million of outstanding put warrants permit a net share settlement at our option and are not recorded as a put warrant obligation in our consolidated balance sheet. The outstanding put warrants classified as a put warrant obligation in our consolidated balance sheet will be reclassified to stockholders equity when the warrant is exercised or when it expires. Under the terms of the put warrant agreements, we must maintain certain levels of cash and investment balances. As of December 31, 2002, we were in compliance with those required levels. In December 2002, we entered into an agreement with a counterparty, which required that the counterparty sell to us up to 1,560,000 shares of our common stock at fixed prices if our common stock trades at designated levels between December 16, 2002 and January 23, 2003. As of December 31, 2002, we had a potential remaining repurchase obligation associated with this agreement of approximately $9.1 million, which is classified as common stock subject to repurchase in our consolidated balance sheet. During January 2003, this agreement expired and no shares were repurchased. We expended an aggregate of $161.1 million during 2002 and $198.2 million during 2001, net of premiums received under all stock repurchase transactions. Since inception of our stock repurchase programs, the average cost of shares acquired was $16.41 per share compared to an average close price during open trading windows of $20.26 per share. Due to the fact that the amount of certain shares received will not be determined until contract maturity, these per share amounts exclude up front payments under structured stock repurchase contracts that had a maturity subsequent to December 31, 2002. Commitments In April 2002, we entered into a synthetic lease with a substantive lessor totaling approximately $61.0 million for our corporate headquarters office space in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The synthetic lease represents a form of off balance sheet financing under which an unrelated third party lessor funded 100% of the costs of acquiring the property and leases the asset to us. The synthetic lease qualifies as an operating lease for accounting purposes and as a financing lease for tax purposes. We do not include the property or the lease debt as an asset or a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Consequently, we include payments made pursuant to the lease as operating expenses in our consolidated statements of income. We entered into the synthetic lease in order to lease our headquarters properties under more favorable terms than under our previous lease arrangements. The initial term of the synthetic lease is seven years. Upon approval by the lessor, we can renew the lease twice for additional two year periods. The lease payments vary based on the London Interbank Offered Rate, 28 Table of Contents or LIBOR, plus a margin. At any time during the lease term, we have the option to sublease the property, and upon thirty days written notice, we have the option to purchase the property for an amount representing the original property cost and transaction fees of approximately $61.0 million plus any lease breakage costs and outstanding amounts owed. Upon at least 180 days notice prior to the termination of the initial lease term, we have the option to remarket the property for sale to a third party. If we choose not to purchase the property at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a residual value to the lessor of approximately $51.9 million and possession of the buildings will be returned to the lessor. If the fair value of the building were to decline below $51.9 million, we would have to make up the difference under our residual value guarantee, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The synthetic lease includes certain financial covenants including a requirement for us to maintain a pledged balance of approximately $63.0 million in cash and or investment securities as collateral. We manage the composition of the pledged investments and investment earnings are available for operating purposes. Additionally, we must maintain a minimum cash and investment balance of $100.0 million, excluding our debentures, collateralized investments and equity investments, as of the end of each fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2002, we had approximately $113.5 million in cash and investments in excess of those required levels. The synthetic lease includes non financial covenants including the maintenance of the properties and adequate insurance, prompt delivery of financial statements to the lender of the lessor and prompt payment of taxes associated with the properties. As of December 31, 2002 we were in compliance with all material provisions of the arrangement. Estimated future payments due under this lease are $1.4 million for 2003, $2.6 million for 2004, $3.6 million for 2005, $3.7 for 2006 million and $3.7 million for 2007. Estimated lease payments thereafter total $4.8 million. We have subleased to other entities some of our leased real property under the synthetic lease. We lease a significant portion of our worldwide facilities under non cancelable operating leases. Future payments due under these non cancelable operating leases are $18.2 million for the year ending December 31, 2003, $15.7 million for the year ending December 31, 2004, $15.2 million for the year ending December 31, 2005, $14.3 million for the year ending December 31, 2006 and 11.6 million for the year ending December 31, 2007. Thereafter, payments due total $41.2 million. Capital expenditures were $19.1 million during 2002, $60.6 million during 2001 and $43.5 million during 2000. During 2002, capital expenditures were primarily related to leasehold improvements on newly occupied buildings. The decrease, as compared to 2001, is due to expenditures in 2001 for buildings, land and our ERP system. In the normal course of business, we enter into commitments related to capital expenditures, however, we currently have no material contractual commitments for capital expenditures over the next 12 months. During 2002 and 2001, we took actions to consolidate certain of our offices, including the exit of certain leased office space and the abandonment of certain leasehold improvements. Lease obligations related to these existing operating leases continue to October 2018 with a total remaining obligation of approximately $28.5 million, of which $6.8 million, net of anticipated sublease income, was accrued for as of December 31, 2002, and is reflected in accrued expenses in our consolidated financial statements. In calculating this accrual, we made estimates, based on market information, including the estimated vacancy periods and sublease rates and opportunities. If actual circumstances prove to be materially worse than management has estimated, the total charges for these vacant facilities could be significantly higher. During 2002 and 2001, significant portions of our cash inflows were generated by operations. Although we believe existing cash and investments together with cash flow expected from operations will be sufficient to meet operating and capital expenditures requirements for the next 12 months, future operating results and expected cash flow from operations could vary if we experience a decrease in customer demand or a decrease in customer acceptance of future product offerings. We could from time to time seek to raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities. We continue to search for suitable acquisition candidates and could acquire or make investments in companies we believe are related to our strategic objectives. Such 29 Table of Contents investments could reduce our available working capital. We currently expect that the difficult economic conditions that existed during 2002 will persist in 2003. Certain Factors Which May Affect Future Results Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and could in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. From time to time, information provided by us or statements made by our employees could contain forward looking information that involves risks and uncertainties. In particular, statements contained in this Form 10 K, and in the documents incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K, that are not historical facts, including, but not limited to statements concerning new products, product development and offerings, product and price competition, deferred revenues, the Microsoft source licensing agreement, economic and market conditions, revenue recognition, growth of revenues, product concentration, market competition, marketing efforts, technology relationships, investments in foreign operations and markets, reinvestment of foreign earnings, gross margins, goodwill, intangible assets, impairment charges, accounts receivable, amortization, reserves, in process research and development valuation, foreign currency hedging transactions, interest income, anticipated operating and capital expenditure requirements, reductions in operating expenses, expenses related to workforce reductions, leasing and subleasing activities, acquisitions, debt redemption obligations, stock repurchases, investment transactions, litigation matters, intellectual property matters, including proprietary technology protection, distribution channels, packaged product inventories, stock price, deferred tax assets, licensing models, sales cycles, trading plans and potential debt or equity financings constitute forward looking statements and are made under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees. Our actual results of operations and financial condition have varied and could in the future vary significantly from those stated in any forward looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward looking statements made in this Form 10 K, in the documents incorporated by reference into this Form 10 K or presented elsewhere by our management from time to time. Such factors, among others, could have a material adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. If Microsoft terminates or fails to renew our license agreement, fails to continue to commercialize Windows or designs Windows so that it is no longer interoperable with our products, our business could be adversely affected. Microsoft is the leading provider of desktop operating systems. We depend upon the license of key technology from Microsoft, including certain source and object code licenses and technical support. In May 2002, we signed an agreement with Microsoft to formalize continued access to Microsoft Windows Server source code. Under this agreement, we will have access to source code for current and future Microsoft server operating systems, including access to terminal services source code, during the three year term of the agreement. Our relationship with Microsoft is subject to the following risks and uncertainties, which individually, or in the aggregate, could cause a material adverse effect in our business, results of operations and financial condition: Dependence on Microsoft for Commercialization. Our ability to successfully commercialize Citrix MetaFrame access infrastructure depends on Microsofts ability to market Windows NT Server 4.0, Terminal Server Editions and Windows 2000 Servers and the upcoming Windows Server 2003, or collectively Windows Server Operating Systems, products. We do not have control over Microsofts distributors and resellers and, to our knowledge, Microsofts distributors and resellers are not obligated to purchase products from Microsoft. Additionally, there could be delays in the release and shipment of future versions of Windows Server Operating Systems. Termination of the Microsoft Source Licensing Agreement. Microsoft could terminate the current agreement before the expiration of the three year term for breach and upon our change of control. If Microsoft does terminate the current agreement, our restricted access to source code for current and future Microsoft server operating systems could negatively impact our ability to release future products and enhancements. 30 Table of Contents Interoperability. Future product offerings by Microsoft may not provide for interoperability with our products. The lack of interoperability between present or future Microsoft products and our products, could cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our agreements with Microsoft are short in duration. There can be no assurances that our current agreements with Microsoft will be extended or renewed by Microsoft after their respective expirations or that, if renewed such agreements will be on terms favorable to us. Our failure to renew certain terms of these agreements with Microsoft could result in an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the information technology market in particular. The demand for our products depends substantially upon the general demand for business related computer hardware and software, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels, the spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers and general economic conditions. Fluctuations in the demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2002, adverse economic conditions decreased demand for our products and negatively impacted our financial results. If the current trend of decreased and slower informational technology spending continues, it could continue to negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our long sales cycle for enterprise wide sales could make it difficult to predict our quarterly operating results. In recent quarters, a growing number of our large and medium sized customers have decided to implement our volume based licensing programs on a department or enterprise wide basis. For convenience, the licenses under these arrangements are electronically delivered to our customers. Our long sales cycle for these large scale deployments makes it difficult to predict when these sales will occur, and we may not be able to sustain these sales on a predictable basis. For example, our electronically delivered licensing arrangements constituted 39% of our product sales in the year ended December 31, 2002, a portion of which has been deferred. We have a long sales cycle for these enterprise wide sales because: our sales force generally needs to explain and demonstrate the benefits of a large scale deployment of our product to potential and existing customers prior to sale; our service personnel typically spend a significant amount of time assisting potential customers in their testing and evaluation of our product; our customers are typically large and medium size organizations that carefully research their technology needs and the many potential projects prior to making capital expenditures for software infrastructure; and before making a purchase, our potential customers usually must get approvals from various levels of decision makers within their organizations, and this process can be lengthy. The continued long sales cycle for these large scale deployment sales could make it difficult to predict the quarter in which sales will occur. Delays in sales could cause significant variability in our revenue and operating results for any particular period. Our accounting policies could require us to take an impairment charge to earnings, particularly during difficult economic conditions. We have adopted accounting policies that could require us to take a charge to earnings related to our Sequoia acquisition. In July 2001, we adopted SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations, and in January 2002, we adopted SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. As a result, we no longer amortize goodwill 31 Table of Contents and intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives. However, we continue to amortize certain product and core technologies, trademarks, patents and other intangibles. We periodically evaluate our intangible assets, including goodwill, for impairment. If we determine that any of our intangible assets are impaired, we could be required to take a related charge to earnings. In particular, at December 31, 2002, we had $30.8 million, net, of unamortized identified intangibles with estimable useful lives, of which $24.5 million consists of product and core technology we purchased in the acquisition of Sequoia. We commercialized and currently market the Sequoia technology through our secure access infrastructure software, which includes Citrix MetaFrame Secure Access Manager. However, our channel distributors and entities with which we have technology relationships, customers or prospective customers may not purchase or widely accept our new line of products. If we are unsuccessful in selling this new line of products, we could determine that the value of the purchased technology is impaired in whole or in part and take a charge to earnings. An impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If we do not develop new products and enhancements to our existing products, we may not be successful. The markets for our products are characterized by: rapid technological change; evolving industry standards; fluctuations in customer demand; changes in customer requirements; and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. Our future success depends on our ability to continually enhance our current products and develop and introduce new products that our customers choose to buy. If we are unable to keep pace with technological developments and customer demands by introducing new products and enhancements, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our future success could be hindered by: delays in our introduction of new products; delays in market acceptance of new products or new releases of our current products; and our, or a competitors, announcement of new product enhancements or technologies that could replace or shorten the life cycle of our existing product offerings. For example, we cannot guarantee that our secure access infrastructure software, Citrix MetaFrame Secure Access Manager, will achieve the broad market acceptance by our channel and entities with which we have a technology relationship, customers and prospective customers necessary to generate significant revenue. In addition, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes or new product announcements by others. If we experience material delays or sales shortfalls with respect to our new products or new releases of our current products, those delays or shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe that we could incur additional costs and royalties as we develop, license or buy new technologies or enhancements to our existing products. These added costs and royalties could increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses. However, we cannot currently quantify the costs for such transactions that have not yet occurred. In addition, we may need to use a substantial portion of our cash and investments to fund these additional costs. We face intense competition, which could result in fewer customer orders and reduced revenues and margins. We compete in intensely competitive markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing and other resources than us. 32 Table of Contents Microsoft includes its Remote Desktop Protocol, or RDP, as a component in certain Windows Server Operating Systems, which has certain of the capabilities of our ICA protocol, and offers customers a competitive solution. Further, our ability to market the MetaFrame product suite, the MetaFrame Secure Access Manager products and other future product offerings could be affected by Microsofts licensing and pricing scheme for client devices, which attach to Windows Server Operating Systems and utilize our products. Moreover, the announcement of the release, and the actual release, of new Window based server operating systems or products incorporating similar features to our products could cause our existing and potential customers to postpone or cancel plans to license certain of our existing and future product offerings, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Future product offerings by Microsoft could be competitive with our current MetaFrame software suite, and any of our future product offerings. Furthermore, the Microsoft Development Agreement expired in May 2002. Consequently, Microsoft is no longer contractually restricted from changing its Windows Server Operating Systems to render them inoperable with our MetaFrame product offerings. Further, Microsoft is no longer restricted from assisting third parties to compete with our MetaFrame products. In addition, alternative products for Web applications in the Internet software market directly and indirectly compete with our current products and anticipated future product offerings. Existing or new products that extend Internet software to provide Web based information access or interactive computing (such as Microsoft Windows Server 2003 products) can materially impact our ability to sell our products in this market. Our competitors in this market include Microsoft, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, and other makers of Web application server software. As the markets for our products continue to develop, additional companies, including companies with significant market presence in the computer hardware, software and networking industries could enter the markets in which we compete and further intensify competition. In addition, we believe price competition could become a more significant competitive factor in the future. As a result, we may not be able to maintain our historic prices and margins, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We could change our licensing models or the percentage of our revenue represented by deferred revenues could increase, which could negatively impact our recognition of revenue. We continually re evaluate our licensing programs, including specific license models, delivery methods, and terms and conditions, to market our current and future products and services. We could implement new licensing programs, including offering specified and unspecified enhancements to our current and future product and service lines. For example, on October 1, 2002, we implemented new volume based licensing programs. We could recognize revenues associated with those enhancements after the initial shipment or licensing of the software product or over the products life cycle. We could implement different licensing models in certain circumstances, for which we would recognize licensing fees over a longer period, which could decrease our current revenue. For example, we recognize Citrix Subscription Advantage and Technical Services revenues from customer maintenance fees or ongoing customer support ratably over the term of the contract, which is typically 12 to 24 months. Deferred revenues from Citrix Subscription Advantage and Technical Services increased by approximately $32 million in 2002 as compared to 2001. The timing of the implementation of new licensing programs, the timing of the release of such enhancements and other factors could impact the timing of our recognition of revenues and related expenses associated with our products, related enhancements and services and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As our international sales and operations grow, we could become increasingly subject to additional risks that could harm our business. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2002, we derived 53.7% of our revenues from sales outside the United States. Our continued growth and profitability could require us to further expand our international operations. 33 Table of Contents To successfully expand international sales, we must establish additional foreign operations, hire additional personnel and recruit additional international resellers. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, which could cause international revenues to fluctuate. These risks include: fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including our ability to adequately hedge our foreign exchange risks; compliance with foreign regulatory and market requirements; variability of foreign economic, political and labor conditions; changing restrictions imposed by regulatory requirements, tariffs or other trade barriers or by United States export laws; longer accounts receivable payment cycles; potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on repatriation of earnings; difficulties in protecting intellectual property; and burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and address these risks. We cannot guarantee that these or other factors will not adversely affect our business or operating results. In particular, a decrease in demand for software and services in any particular region could adversely affect our future operating results. Our results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in the value of foreign currencies in 2002 relative to the value of the U.S. dollar were generally hedged to minimize adverse impacts on our operating profit. However, since we generally hedge only one year in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses, operations will be impacted adversely in fiscal 2003. The U.S. dollar weakened during 2002 relative to other currencies. If the value of the U.S. dollar continues to weaken relative to other currencies in which we do business, our results could be adversely affected in 2004 as well when these currencies are remeasured for the purposes of converting them to U.S. dollars for our financial statements. Sales of our MetaFrame product suite constitutes a substantial majority of our revenue. We anticipate that sales of our MetaFrame product suite and related enhancements will constitute a substantial majority of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our ability to continue to generate revenue from our MetaFrame product line will depend on market acceptance of Windows Server Operating Systems and or UNIX Operating Systems. Declines in demand for our MetaFrame products could occur as a result of: new competitive product releases and updates to existing products, price competition, technological change, decreasing or stagnant information technology spending levels, general economic conditions, or lack of success of entities with which we have a technology relationship. If our customers do not continue to purchase our MetaFrame products as a result of these or other factors, our revenue would decrease and our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our synthetic lease is an off balance sheet arrangement that could negatively affect our financial condition and results. In April 2002, we entered into a seven year synthetic lease with a substantive lessor for our headquarters office buildings in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The synthetic lease qualifies for operating lease accounting 34 Table of Contents treatment under SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, so we do not include the property or the lease debt on our consolidated balance sheet. If new or proposed accounting standards are adopted by accounting standards organizations and governmental authorities, we may be required to include the property and the lease debt in our consolidated financial statements, and as a result we would incur additional depreciation expenses. Under the lease, we must maintain a pledged balance of approximately $63 million in cash and or investment securities with an affiliate of the lessor, serving as collateral agent. We are able to manage the composition of the pledged investments and investment earnings are available for operating purposes. If we default on our commitments under the synthetic lease and cannot remedy the default in a timely manner, the lessor could take the pledged assets and transfer ownership of the real estate to us. We could purchase the property at any time during the lease term, with thirty days written notice, for the original property cost plus transaction fees and lease breakage fees. If we purchase the property, we will be required to add the property to our consolidated balance sheet. At any time during the lease term, we could also re lease the property or remarket the property for sale to a third party. If we remarket the property for sale to a third party, we could be required to find alternate headquarter facilities on terms that may not be as favorable as the current arrangement. If we elect not to purchase the property at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a minimum residual value of approximately $51.9 million to the lessor. Therefore, if the fair value of the property declines below $51.9 million, we would have to make up the difference under our residual value guarantee, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For further information on our synthetic lease, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources and note 10 to our consolidated financial statements. Our proprietary rights could offer only limited protection. Our products could infringe third party intellectual property rights, which could result in material costs. Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may not be successful. We rely primarily on a combination of copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary rights. The loss of any material trade secret, trademark, trade name, patent or copyright could have a material adverse effect on our business. Despite our precautions, it could be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy or reverse engineer certain portions of our products or to otherwise obtain and use our proprietary information. If we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. Any patents owned by us could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope we seek, if at all, and if issued, may not provide any meaningful protection or competitive advantage. In addition, our ability to protect our proprietary rights could be affected by: Differences in International Law; Enforceability of Licenses. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States and Canada. For example, we derive a significant portion of our sales from licensing our packaged products under shrink wrap license agreements that are not signed by licensees and electronic volume based licensing agreements that could be unenforceable under the laws of certain foreign jurisdictions. Third Party Infringement Claims. As the number of products and competitors in our industry segments increases and the functionality of these products overlap, we could become increasingly subject to infringement claims. Companies and inventors are more frequently seeking to patent software and business methods because of developments in the law that could extend the ability to obtain such patents. As a result, we could receive patent infringement claims. Responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could result in costly litigation or require us to obtain a license to intellectual property rights of those third parties. Licenses may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, attention to these claims could divert our managements time and attention from developing our business. If a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license 35 Table of Contents a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with our technology relationships. Our business depends on technology relationships. We cannot assure you that those relationships will continue in the future. In addition to our relationship with Microsoft, we rely on technology relationships with IBM, HP, Dell and others. We depend on the entities with which we have technology relationships to successfully test our products, to incorporate our technology into their products and to market and sell those products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current technology relationships or to develop additional technology relationships. If any entities in which we have a technology relationship are unable to incorporate our technology into their products or to market or sell those products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we lose access to third party licenses, shipments of our products could be delayed. We believe that we will continue to rely, in part, on third party licenses to enhance and differentiate our products. Third party licensing arrangements are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: undetected errors in the third partys software; disagreement over the scope of the license and other key terms, such as royalties payable; and infringement actions brought by third party licensees. If we lose or are unable to maintain any of these third party licenses, it could delay the shipment or release of our products. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain large enterprise customers. We must retain and continue to expand our ability to reach and penetrate large enterprise customers by adding effective channel distributors and expanding our consulting services. Our inability to attract and retain large enterprise customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Large enterprise customers usually request special pricing and generally have longer sales cycles, which could negatively impact our revenues. Additionally, as we attempt to attract and penetrate large enterprise customers, we could need to increase corporate branding and marketing activities, which could increase our operating expenses. These efforts may not proportionally increase our operating revenues and could reduce our profits. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to expand and diversify our distribution channels. We intend to continue to expand our distribution channels by leveraging our relationships with independent hardware and software vendors and system integrators to encourage them to recommend or distribute our products. In addition, an integral part of our strategy is to diversify our base of channel relationships by adding more channel members with abilities to reach larger enterprise customers. This will require additional resources as we will need to expand our internal sales and service coverage of these customers. If we fail in these efforts and cannot expand or diversify our distribution channels, our business could be adversely affected. In addition to this diversification of our base, we will need to maintain a healthy mix of members who cater to smaller customers. We could need to add and remove distribution members to maintain customer satisfaction and a steady adoption rate of our products, which could increase our operating expenses. We are currently investing, and intend to continue to invest, significant resources to develop these channels, which could reduce our profits. 36 Table of Contents If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, we may not be able to fund our operations and fulfill our future obligations. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our product development and offerings and make payments on our debt and other obligations depends on a range of economic, competitive and business factors, many of which are outside our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or at all, or that we will be able to liquidate our investments, sell assets or raise equity when needed or desirable. In December 2000, we invested $158.1 million in a trust managed by an investment advisor in order to maintain sufficient liquidity in the event that our debentures are redeemed in March 2004. If the value of the investments in the trust significantly decreases, the proceeds of the trust combined with our other cash and investments may not be sufficient to fund the redemption of our outstanding debentures in 2004, if required. An inability to fund our operations or fulfill outstanding obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For further information, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources. We rely on indirect distribution channels and major distributors that we do not control. We rely significantly on independent distributors and resellers to market and distribute our products. We do not control our distributors and resellers. Additionally, our distributors and resellers are not obligated to buy our products and could also represent other lines of products. Some of our distributors and resellers maintain inventories of our packaged products for resale to our smaller end user customers. If distributors and resellers reduce their inventory of our packaged products, our business could be adversely affected. In the quarter ended December 31, 2002, we believe that our distributors and resellers held smaller inventories of packaged products as compared to inventories they held in prior quarters. Further, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances with certain distributors. For example, one of our distributors accounted for approximately 7% of gross accounts receivable as of December 31, 2002. As of December 31, 2001, the same distributor accounted for 14% of gross accounts receivable. The financial condition of our distributors could deteriorate and distributors could significantly delay or default on their payment obligations. Any significant delays or defaults could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products could contain errors that could delay the release of new products and may not be detected until after our products are shipped. Despite significant testing by us and by current and potential customers, our products, especially new products or releases, could contain errors. In some cases, these errors may not be discovered until after commercial shipments have been made. Errors in our products could delay the development or release of new products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Additionally, our products depend on third party products, which could contain defects and could reduce the performance of our products or render them useless. Because our products are often used in mission critical applications, errors in our products or the products of third parties upon which our products rely could give rise to warranty or other claims by our customers. Our research and development purchased in acquisitions is subject to certain risks. In the past we have re evaluated the amounts charged to in process research and development in connection with acquisitions and licensing arrangements. The amount and rate of amortization of those amounts are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties include the effects of any changes in accounting standards or guidance adopted by the SEC or the accounting profession. Any changes in accounting standards or guidance adopted by the SEC could materially adversely affect our future results of operations through increased amortization expense. We cannot assure you that actual revenues and operating profit attributable to acquired in process research and development will match the projections we used to initially value in process research and development when we acquired it. Ongoing operations and 37 Table of Contents financial results for acquired assets and licensed technology, and for our business as a whole, are subject to a variety of risks, which we may not have known or been able to estimate at the time of the transactions. Furthermore, we cannot guarantee that we will succeed in our efforts to integrate and further develop our acquired technologies. In 1999 and 2001, we acquired certain in process software technologies from ViewSoft and Sequoia. We are currently working on integrating some of the acquired technologies into our anticipated future product offerings and on associated design, development and rework required to integrate the technologies. However, we cannot guarantee we will be successful in our efforts to integrate and further develop these technologies. If we fail to complete the development of our anticipated future product offerings, or if we fail to complete them in a timely manner, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We cannot currently determine the impact those delays could have on our business, future results of operations and financial condition. We could incur additional charges in later periods to reflect costs associated with completing those projects. Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals we anticipate at the time of an acquisition. Acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky. We cannot assure anyone that our previous acquisitions, including the purchase of Sequoia, or any future acquisitions will be successful. The risks we commonly encounter are: difficulties integrating the operations, technologies, and products of the acquired companies; the risk of diverting managements attention from normal daily operations of the business; potential difficulties in completing projects associated with purchased in process research and development; risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and where competitors have stronger market positions; the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company; and an uncertain sales and earnings stream from the acquired company, which could unexpectedly dilute our earnings. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot guarantee that the combined company resulting from any acquisition can continue to support the growth achieved by the companies separately. We must also focus on our ability to manage and integrate any acquisition. Our failure to manage growth effectively and successfully integrate acquired companies could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we lose key personnel or cannot hire enough qualified employees, our ability to manage our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in large part, upon the services of a number of key employees. We do not have long term employment agreements with any of our key personnel. Any officer or employee can terminate his or her relationship with us at any time. The effective management of our growth, if any, could depend upon our ability to retain our highly skilled technical, managerial, finance and marketing personnel. If any of those employees leave, we will need to attract and retain replacements for them. We could also need to add key personnel in the future. The market for these qualified employees is competitive. We could find it difficult to successfully attract, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. Also, we could need to hire additional personnel to develop new products, product enhancements and technologies. If we cannot add the necessary staff and resources, our ability to develop future enhancements and features to our existing or future products could be delayed. Any delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 38 Table of Contents If product returns or price adjustments exceed our reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. We provide most of our distributors with product return rights only for the purpose of stock balancing, which generally permit our distributors to return products to us, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of our products. We also provide price protection rights to most of our distributors. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors if we lower our prices for those products within a specified time period. To cover our exposure to these product returns and price adjustments, we establish reserves based on our evaluation of historical product trends and current marketing plans. However, we cannot assure you that our reserves will be sufficient to cover our future product returns and price adjustments. If we inadequately forecast reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. Increased political and social turmoil could adversely impact our business. Increasing political and social turmoil, such as terrorist and military actions, can be expected to put further pressure on economic conditions in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. These conditions make it difficult for us, and our customers, to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price could be volatile, and you could lose the value of your investment. Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly to date. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Your investment in our stock could lose value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include: actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; analyst reports or recommendations; changes in interest rates; and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market in general, The Nasdaq National Market and the market for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. If we fail to manage our operations and control expenses effectively, our future operating results could be adversely affected. Historically, the scope of our operations, the number of our employees and the geographic area of our operations have grown rapidly. In addition, we have acquired both domestic and international companies. This growth and the assimilation of acquired operations and their employees could continue to place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. To manage our growth, if any, effectively, we need to continue to implement and improve additional management and financial systems and controls. We may not be able to manage the current scope of our operations or future growth effectively and still exploit market opportunities for our products and services in a timely and cost effective way. Our future operating results could also depend on our ability to manage: our expanding product line, our marketing and sales organizations, and our client support organization as installations of our products increase. 39 Table of Contents We took steps to reduce operating expenses commencing in the fourth quarter of 2002, however our operating expenses in 2003 could exceed our operating expenses in 2002. An increase in operating expenses could reduce our income from operations and cash flows from operating activities in the future. Our business and investments could be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic conditions. General economic and market conditions, and other factors outside our control, could adversely affect our business and impair the value of our investments. Any further downturn in general economic conditions could result in a reduction in demand for our products and services and could harm our business. In addition, an economic downturn could result in an impairment in the value of our investments requiring us to record losses related to such investments. An impairment in the value of these investments may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management. As of December 31, 2002, we had $576.7 million of short and long term investments with various issuers and financial institutions. In many cases we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these investments and could incur losses related to the impairment of these investments. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely effect the value of our investments, and we could lose some of our investment portfolio. A total loss of an investment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For further information on these investments, please refer to Liquidity and Capital Resources. Our revenue may not grow, and if we do not successfully manage our expenses, our business could be negatively impacted. We attribute most of our growth during recent years to the introduction of the MetaFrame software for Windows operating systems in mid 1998. We cannot assure you that the infrastructure software markets in which we operate, will grow. We cannot assure that the release of our secure access infrastructure software suite, including the MetaFrame Secure Access Manager, or other new products will increase our revenue growth rate. In addition, to the extent our revenue grows, if at all, we believe that our cost of revenues and certain operating expenses could also increase. In the third quarter of 2002, we took actions to reduce operating expenses starting in the fourth quarter of 2002. We cannot assure you that our operating expenses will be lower than our estimated or actual revenues in any given quarter. If we experience a shortfall in revenue in any given quarter, we likely will not be able to further reduce operating expenses quickly in response. Any significant shortfall in revenue could immediately and adversely affect our results of operations for that quarter. Also, due to the fixed nature of many of our expenses and our current expectation for revenue growth, our income from operations and cash flows from operating and investing activities could be lower than in recent years. 40 Table of Contents ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following discussion about our market risk includes forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements. The analysis methods we used to assess and mitigate risk discussed below should not be considered projections of future events, gains or losses. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. To mitigate foreign currency and interest rate risk, we utilize derivative financial instruments. The counter parties to our derivative instruments are major financial institutions. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of December 31, 2002. Actual results could differ materially. Discussions of our accounting policies for derivatives and hedging activities are included in notes 2 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements. Exposure to Exchange Rates A substantial majority of our overseas expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in local currencies, primarily British pounds sterling, Euros, Swiss francs, Japanese yen and Australian dollars. To reduce exposure to reduction in U.S. dollar value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we have established a hedging program. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency expenditures. Our hedging program significantly reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, we had in place foreign currency forward sale contracts with a notional amount of $48.9 million and $13.1 million, respectively, and foreign currency forward purchase contracts with a notional amount of $128.4 million and $60.9 million, respectively. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, these contracts had an aggregate fair value of $3.6 million and $0.2 million, respectively. Based on a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2002 market rates the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts would decrease by $8.3 million. Conversely, a hypothetical 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2002 market rates would increase the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts by $8.3 million. Foreign operating costs in these hypothetical movements would move in the opposite direction. This calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates quantified above, changes in exchange rates could also change the dollar value of sales and affect the volume of sales as competitors products become more or less attractive. Our sensitivity analysis of the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates does not factor in a potential change in levels of local currency prices or sales reported in U.S. dollars. We do not anticipate any material adverse impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as a result of these forward foreign exchange contracts. Exposure to Interest Rates In order to better manage our exposure to interest rate risk, in December 2002 we entered into 12 interest rate swap agreements. The swap agreements, with an aggregate notional amount of $208.0 million convert the fixed rate return on 12 of our available for sale securities, to a floating rate. The aggregate fair value of the interest rate swaps at December 31, 2002 was a liability of $3.4 million. Based upon a hypothetical 1% increase in the market interest rate as of December 31, 2002, the fair value of these aggregated liabilities would have decreased by approximately $8.2 million. Based on a hypothetical 1% decrease in the market interest rate as of December 31, 2002, the fair value of these aggregated liabilities would have increased by approximately $8.4 million. The underlying assets would experience offsetting gains and losses. We also maintain available for sale and held to maturity investments in debt securities, which limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issue, issuer, or type of instrument. The securities in our investment portfolio are not leveraged. The securities classified as available for sale are subject to interest rate risk. The modeling technique used measures the change in fair values arising from an immediate hypothetical shift in market interest rates and assumes that ending fair values include principal plus accrued interest, dividends and reinvestment income. If 41 Table of Contents market interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points from December 31, 2002 and 2001 levels, the fair value of the available for sale portfolio would decline by approximately $0.6 million and $1.1 million, respectively. This sensitivity analysis on our available for sale portfolio excludes the underlying investments to our 12 interest rate swaps discussed above, as the interest rate risk related to those investments has been effectively hedged. For more information see note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rates on our interest rate swap agreements and its available for sale and held to maturity investment portfolios. This analysis does not consider the effect of credit risk as a result of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. In April 2002, we entered into a synthetic lease with a substantive lessor totaling approximately $61 million related to office space utilized for our corporate headquarters. Payments under this synthetic lease are indexed to a variable interest rate (LIBOR plus a margin). Based upon our interest rate exposure under this synthetic lease at December 31, 2002, a 100 basis point change in the current interest rate would have an immaterial effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition to interest rate exposure, if the fair value of our headquarters building in Fort Lauderdale, Florida were to significantly decline, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 
 
