Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included therein, in the fourth quarter of 2006, the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors commenced a voluntary independent investigation of certain of our stock option granting practices and the related accounting during the period from January 1996 through December 2006. This investigation was conducted by the Audit Committee with the assistance of independent outside legal counsel and outside forensic accounting consultants. In addition to those grants evaluated as part of the Audit Committees investigation, we also evaluated all grants (consisting of two employee new hire grants) in December 1995, which was the month the Company completed its initial public offering, and all grants to non employee directors. The Audit Committee completed its investigation in the second quarter of 2007. Based on the facts obtained in connection with the Audit Committees investigation and managements supplemental review, we concluded that stock options granted during the period from December 1995 to March 2005, were accounted for using incorrect measurement dates, which required a restatement of our previously filed financial statements. We incurred significant expenses related to legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with the investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and the related restatements, and may incur significant expenses in the future with respect to such matters, including as a result of litigation matters or additional cash and non cash charges. For example, as described in Part I, Item 3 Legal Proceedings, purported stockholder derivative actions have been filed relating to certain of our historical stock option grants. Even if resolved favorably, these matters may be time consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the impact and outcomes of current or future litigation matters are difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, as described in the Explanatory Note to our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2006, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II Item 7 and in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2006 in Part IV Item 15, after the Audit Committee completed its investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and our review of the accounting treatment for our historical stock option grants, we recorded additional stock based compensation expenses and related tax effects with regard to certain past stock option grants, and we restated previously issued financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2006. Although we believe we made appropriate judgments in determining the financial and tax impacts of our historical stock option granting practices and have consulted with the Office of the Chief Accountant of the SEC on certain interpretive matters, we cannot provide assurance that regulatory authorities, including the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, will agree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial and tax impacts. Specifically, in light of the significant judgment used in establishing revised measurement dates, alternate approaches to those used by us could have resulted in different compensation expense charges than those reported in our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and those differences could be considered material. We considered various alternative approaches and believe that the approaches used by us were appropriate under the circumstances. For a complete discussion of the judgments underlying the revised measurement dates, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2006. If regulatory authorities disagree with our financial or tax adjustments and such disagreements result in material changes to our historical financial statements, we may be required to further restate our prior financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC or take other action that is not currently contemplated. In addition, other adjustments for non operating cash charges may be required in connection with the resolution of stock option related matters arising under any litigation commenced against us. If stock balancing returns or price adjustments exceed our reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. We provide most of our distributors with stock balancing return rights, which generally permit our distributors to return products to us by the forty fifth day of a fiscal quarter, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of our products prior to the last day of the same fiscal quarter. We also provide price protection rights to most of our distributors. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors if we lower our prices for those products within a specified time period. To cover our exposure to these product returns and price adjustments, we establish reserves based on our evaluation of historical product trends and current marketing plans. However, we cannot assure you that our reserves will be sufficient to cover our future product returns and price adjustments. If we inadequately forecast reserves, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our stock price could be volatile, and you could lose the value of your investment. Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future. Your investment in our stock could lose some or all of its value. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include: actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; 21 Table of Contents analyst reports or recommendations; changes in interest rates; and other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market in general, The NASDAQ Global Select Market (formerly, the Nasdaq National Market), and the market for software companies and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These broad market and industry factors could materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Changes or modifications in financial accounting standards related to share based compensation may have a material adverse impact on our reported results of operations. Effective January 1, 2006, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, Share Based Payment, a complex accounting standard that requires companies to expense the fair value of employee stock options and similar awards. The application of SFAS No. 123R requires significant judgment and the use of estimates, particularly surrounding stock price volatility, option forfeiture rates and expected option lives, to build a model for appropriately valuing share based compensation. There is a risk that, as a result of subsequent accounting guidelines or changes in our business, we could determine that the assumptions or model we used requires modification. Any such modification could result in significantly different charges in future periods and, potentially, could require us to correct the charges taken in prior periods. These modifications, as well as any such corrections of charges taken in a prior period could negatively affect our results of operations, stock price and our stock price volatility. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, our net revenues have fluctuated quarterly and have generally been the highest in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year due to corporate calendar year end spending trends. In addition, our European operations generally provide lower revenues in the summer months because of the generally reduced level of economic activity in Europe during the summer. This seasonal factor also typically results in higher fourth quarter revenues. Quarterly results are also affected by the timing of the release of new products and services. Because of the seasonality of our business, results for any quarter, especially our fourth quarter, are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be achieved for the full fiscal year. Funds from certain of our auction rate securities may not be accessible within 12 months and our auction rate securities may experience an other than temporary decline in value, which would adversely affect our income. In February 2008, approximately $45.5 million of our investment portfolio consists of municipal auction rate securities whose underlying assets are generally student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. The market for municipal auction rate securities held in our portfolio began experiencing auction failures on February 13, 2008. If the issuers of the affected securities are unable to successfully complete future auctions or refinance their obligations and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these securities and recognize an impairment charge for an other than temporary decline in the fair values of these securities which will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. All of our auction rate securities, including those having recently experienced an auction failure, are currently rated triple A by one or more rating agencies. We believe we will be able to liquidate our investment without significant loss within the next year, and we currently believe these securities are not significantly impaired. Based on our available cash and other investments, we do not currently anticipate that the lack of liquidity caused by failed auctions related to these securities will have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows or will affect our ability to operate our business as usual. Our business and investments could be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic political and social conditions. General economic and market conditions, and other factors outside our control including significant natural disasters, terrorist attacks or military actions, could adversely affect our business and impair the value of our investments. For example, an economic downturn could result in impairment in the value of our investments requiring us to record losses related to such investments. Impairment in the value of these investments may disrupt our ongoing business and distract management. As of December 31, 2007, we had $600.7 million of short and long term investments, including restricted investments, with various issuers and financial institutions. In many cases we do not attempt to reduce or eliminate our market exposure on these investments and could incur losses related to the impairment of these investments. Fluctuations in economic and market conditions could adversely affect the value of our investments, and we could lose some of our investment portfolio. A total loss of an investment could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. For further information on these investments, please refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources. 22 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have received no written comments regarding our periodic or current reports from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission that were issued 180 days or more preceding the end of our 2007 fiscal year that remain unresolved. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease and sublease a total of 1,131,695 square feet of office space in the United States, Canada and Latin America, which is comprised of 474,150 square feet related to our Americas segment, 187,127 square feet related to our Online Services division and 470,418 square feet relating to our corporate headquarters located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Included in this total square footage is 368,843 square feet of office space in California, and 292,434 square feet of office space in other locations in the United States, Canada and Latin America. We lease and sublease a total of 412,278 square feet of office space in various other facilities outside of North and Latin America, 198,899 of which relates to our Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, segment and 213,379 of which relates to our Asia Pacific segment. In addition, we own land and buildings in the United Kingdom with approximately 42,000 square feet of office space. We believe that our existing facilities are adequate for our current needs. As additional space is needed in the future, we believe that suitable space will be available in the required locations on commercially reasonable terms. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Due to the nature of our business, we are subject to patent infringement claims. In 2006, we were sued in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Ohio for alleged patent infringement by our Online Services divisions GoToMyPC service and in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida for alleged patent infringement by our Online Services divisions GoToMyPC and GoToMeeting services. The complaints name Citrix Systems, Inc. and Citrix Online LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Citrix Systems, Inc., as defendants and seek unspecified damages and other relief. In January 2007, a similar suit naming Citrix Systems, Inc. was filed in the United States District Court of the Eastern District of Texas. In response, we filed answers denying infringement and alleging, among other things, that the asserted claims of these patents are invalid. With respect to the Northern District of Ohio case, on November 2, 2006, the court held a hearing for the purpose of construing disputed terms of the claims of the patent in suit, and on March 13, 2007, the court issued a claim construction ruling. On March 21, 2007, we moved for leave to amend our answer in that case to assert an affirmative defense and counterclaim of inequitable conduct, which is a complete defense. On August 28, 2007, the court granted our motion. On December 7, 2007, we filed motions for summary judgment in the Northern District of Ohio case, seeking judgment that the asserted patent is invalid and that we have not infringed the patent, as well as judgments on other, non dispositive issues. On the same day, we filed a request with the United States Patent and Trademark Office seeking inter partes reexamination of the patent in suit, and we subsequently filed a request with the court in the Northern District of Ohio seeking a stay of the litigation pending the Patent Offices determination of our reexamination request. The court has all of these motions under advisement. The Patent Office has not yet ruled on our reexamination request. Trial in the Northern District of Ohio case currently is scheduled to begin March 24, 2008. Trial in the Southern District of Florida case currently is scheduled to begin April 28, 2008, and trial in the Eastern District of Texas case currently is scheduled to begin June 15, 2009. In addition, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has decided to reexamine the patent at issue in the Southern District of Florida case. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the allegations made in each of the complaints and intend to vigorously defend these lawsuits; however, we are unable to currently determine the ultimate outcome of these matters or the potential exposure to loss, if any. On March 6, 2007, a purported stockholder derivative action entitled Sheet Metal Workers Local 28 Pension Fund v. Roger W. Roberts et al. (C.A. No. 07 60316), was filed in the US District Court for the Southern District of Florida against certain of our current and former directors and officers, and against us as a nominal defendant. The lawsuit asserts, among other things, that certain stock option grants made by us were dated and accounted for inappropriately. The lawsuit seeks the recovery of monetary damages and other relief for damage allegedly caused to us. An amended complaint, which changed the plaintiff in the action, named additional defendants and included additional allegations concerning our stock option granting practices, was filed on January 15, 2008 under the caption Rappaport v. Roberts, et al. (CA No. 07 60316). We also received a demand letter dated March 15, 2007 from a purported stockholder with respect to certain stock option grants made to our current and former directors and officers during the years 1996 through 2003. That demand letter asserted, among other things, that certain stock option grants made by us were dated and accounted for inappropriately. The demand letter sought, among other things, the commencement by our Board of Directors of an action against our directors and officers from 1996 forward for alleged breaches of fiduciary duties in connection with the granting of the options. A special committee of independent directors was appointed to review and consider the assertions contained in the demand letter. The special committee has completed its work and has determined that it would not be in the best interests of the company to pursue the claims referred to in the demand letter. In July 2007, two additional purported stockholder derivative actions entitled Ekas v. Citrix, et al. (Case No. 07 16114 11) and Crouse v. Citrix, et al. (Case No. 07 16249 03) were filed in the Circuit Court for Broward County, Florida state court against certain of our current and former directors and officers, and against us as a nominal defendant. These actions assert, among other things, that certain stock option grants made by us were dated and accounted for inappropriately. As with the Sheet Metal Workers action, both the Ekas and Crouse actions seek the recovery of monetary damages and other relief for damages allegedly 23 Table of Contents caused to us. Neither the purported stockholder derivative actions nor the demand letter described above seeks to recover amounts from us. An amended complaint in the Ekas action, which contains additional allegations concerning our stock option granting practices was filed on December 14, 2007. During the course of our stock option investigation, we have periodically met and discussed the results of this investigation with the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. On January 30, 2008, we received a letter from the SEC Staff stating that the Staff has completed its investigation and does not intend to recommend any enforcement action by the SEC against us. In addition, we are a defendant in various litigation matters generally arising out of the normal course of business. Although it is difficult to predict the ultimate outcome of these cases, we believe that the ultimate outcome will not materially affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS At the Companys annual meeting of stockholders held on October 18, 2007, the Companys stockholders took the following actions: The Companys stockholders elected Mark B. Templeton, Stephen M. Dow and Godfrey R. Sullivan, each as a Class III director, to serve for a three year term expiring at the Companys annual meeting of stockholders in 2010 or until his successor has been duly elected and qualified or until his earlier resignation or removal. The directors were elected by a plurality of the votes cast at the 2007 annual meeting as follows: 144,751,442 shares voted for the election of Mr. Templeton, 82,306,008 shares voted for the election of Mr. Dow and 100,138,443 shares voted for the election of Mr. Sullivan; and 5,572,519 shares were withheld from the election of Mr. Templeton, 68,017,953 shares were withheld from the election of Mr. Dow and 50,185,518 shares were withheld from the election of Mr. Sullivan. No other persons were nominated, nor received votes, for election as a director of the Company at the 2007 annual meeting. The other directors of the Company whose terms continued after the 2007 annual meeting were Murray J. Demo, Asiff S. Hirji, Thomas F. Bogan and Gary E. Morin. The Companys stockholders approved an amendment to the Companys 2005 Equity Incentive Plan. The votes cast at the 2007 annual meeting were as follows: 106,272,831 shares voted for, 22,652,032 shares voted against and 1,824,402 shares abstained from voting. There were 19,574,696 broker non votes with respect to this proposal. The Companys stockholders approved the stockholder proposal regarding the adoption of a majority voting standard for uncontested elections. The votes cast at the 2007 annual meeting were as follows: 91,375,597 shares voted for, 38,106,930 shares voted against and 1,266,737 shares abstained from voting. On December 6, 2007, we amended our by laws and Corporate Governance Guidelines to implement a majority voting standard for uncontested director elections. There were 19,574,697 broker non votes with respect to this proposal. 24 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Price Range of Common Stock and Dividend Policy Our common stock is currently traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CTXS. The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices for our common stock as reported on The Nasdaq Global Select Market for the periods indicated, as adjusted to the nearest cent. Such information reflects inter dealer prices, without retail markup, markdown or commission and may not represent actual transactions. High Low Year Ended December 31, 2007: Fourth quarter $ 43.86 $ 36.12 Third quarter $ 40.68 $ 31.79 Second quarter $ 34.61 $ 30.48 First quarter $ 33.06 $ 26.83 Year Ended December 31, 2006: Fourth quarter $ 35.39 $ 26.82 Third quarter $ 40.29 $ 28.00 Second quarter $ 45.16 $ 34.61 First quarter $ 37.90 $ 29.24 On February 20, 2008, the last reported sale price of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Select Market was $36.51 per share. As of February 20, 2008, there were approximately 1,458 holders of record of our common stock. We currently intend to retain any earnings for use in our business, for investment in acquisitions and to repurchase shares of our common stock. We have not paid any cash dividends on our capital stock in the last two years and do not currently anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. Equity Compensation Plan Information The following table (in thousands, except option price) provides information as of December 31, 2007 about the securities authorized for issuance to our employees and non employee directors under our fixed stock based compensation plans: Plan category (A)Number of securities tobe issued upon exerciseof outstanding options,warrants and rights (B)Weighted averageexercise price ofoutstanding options,warrants and rights (C)Number of securitiesremaining available forfuture issuance underequity compensation plans(excluding securitiesreflected in column (A)) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders(1) 25,565 $ 32.64 8,772 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders(2) 5,179 $ 3.14 Total 30,744 $ 27.67 8,772 (1) Includes securities issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights that were issued pursuant to our 1995 Stock Plan, the Third Amended and Restated 1995 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 2000 Director and Officer Stock Option and Incentive Plan, and the Amended and Restated 1995 Non Employee Director Stock Option Plan. No additional awards will be granted under these plans. Also includes securities issuable upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights that have been issued pursuant to our 2005 Equity Incentive Plan, which is currently available for future grants. (2) Consists of the following plans assumed in acquisitions: Ardence Delaware, Inc.s 2005 Omnibus Plan, Ardence Delaware Inc.s 2006 Restricted Stock Unit Plan, QuickTree, Inc.s 2007 Restricted Stock Unit Plan, XenSource Inc.s 2005 Stock Plan, the NetScaler Plan, the Teros Plan, the Reflectent Stock Plan, the Reflectent RSU Plan, the Orbital Incentive Plan, the Orbital RSU Plan, the 2000 Net6 Plan and the 2003 Net6 Plan. 25 Table of Contents Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our Board of Directors has authorized an ongoing stock repurchase program with a total repurchase authority granted to us of $1.8 billion, of which $300.0 million was authorized in January 2008. The objective of the stock repurchase program is to improve stockholders returns. At December 31, 2007, approximately $33.5 million was available to repurchase common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase program. All shares repurchased are recorded as treasury stock. The following table shows the monthly activity related to our stock repurchase program for the quarter ended December 31, 2007. Total Numberof SharesPurchased (1) AveragePrice Paidper Share Total Numberof SharesPurchased as Partof PubliclyAnnounced Plansor Programs Approximate dollarvalue of Shares thatmay yet bePurchased under thePlans or Programs(in thousands) October 1, 2007 through October 31, 2007 1,573,859 $ 41.22 (2) 1,573,859 $ 118,577 November 1, 2007 through November 30, 2007 2,284,670 $ 39.52 (2) 2,284,670 $ 33,474 December 1, 2007 through December 31, 2007 1,517,360 $ 37.53 (2) 1,517,360 $ 33,474 Total 5,375,889 $ 39.46 (2) 5,375,889 $ 33,474 (1) Represents shares received under our prepaid stock repurchase programs and shares acquired in open market purchases. We expended approximately $200.0 million during the quarter ended December 31, 2007 for repurchases of our common stock. For more information see Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. (2) These amounts represent the cumulative average of the price paid per share for shares acquired in open market purchases and those received under our prepaid stock repurchase programs, some of which extend over more than one fiscal period. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Income Date: Net revenues $ 1,391,942 $ 1,134,319 $ 908,722 $ 741,157 $ 588,625 Cost of revenues (a) 137,607 98,698 58,099 26,656 31,639 Gross margin 1,254,335 1,035,621 850,623 714,501 556,986 Operating expenses: Research and development 205,103 155,331 108,751 86,654 66,366 Sales, marketing and support 590,409 480,343 394,153 337,777 258,522 General and administrative 229,229 178,669 125,425 105,799 87,196 Amortization of other intangible assets 17,387 16,934 11,622 6,204 300 In process research and development 9,800 1,000 7,000 19,100 Total operating expenses 1,051,928 832,277 646,951 555,534 412,384 Income from operations 202,407 203,344 203,672 158,967 144,602 Interest income 49,704 41,210 23,614 14,274 21,120 Interest expense (737 ) (927 ) (2,426 ) (11,756 ) (18,436 ) Other expense, net (466 ) (546 ) (506 ) 2,851 3,458 Income before income taxes 250,908 243,081 224,354 164,336 150,744 Income taxes 36,425 60,084 58,745 33,049 30,702 Net income $ 214,483 $ 182,997 $ 165,609 $ 131,287 $ 120,042 Diluted earnings per share (b) $ 1.14 $ 0.97 $ 0.93 $ 0.75 $ 0.70 26 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 (In thousands) Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: Total assets $ 2,534,693 $ 2,024,473 $ 1,698,982 $ 1,306,416 $ 1,369,768 Current portion of long term debt 351,423 Stockholders equity 1,838,325 1,464,289 1,214,528 936,833 717,191 Long term debt 31,000 (a) Cost of revenues includes amortization of product related intangible assets of $29.6 million, $19.2 million, $16.8 million, $6.1 million, and $11.0 million in 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. (b) Our diluted weightedaverage shares outstanding primarily fluctuates based on the level of shares issued under our stock based compensation programs, stock repurchases made under our stock repurchase program and shares issued in connection with our acquisitions. See Notes 3, 6 and 7 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We design, develop and market technology solutions that allow applications to be delivered, supported and shared on demand with high performance, enhanced security and improved total cost of ownership, or TCO. We market and license our products through multiple channels such as value added resellers, channel distributors, system integrators, independent software vendors, our Websites and original equipment manufacturers. 2007 Acquisitions Ardence Delaware Inc. On January 5, 2007, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Ardence Delaware Inc. or the Ardence Acquisition, a leading provider of solutions that allow information technology administrators to set up and configure PCs, servers, and Web servers in real time from a centrally managed source. The Ardence Acquisition strengthens our application delivery capabilities with more robust streaming and provisioning technologies and increased security and reliability. The total consideration for the Ardence Acquisition was $51.7 million comprised of cash paid of $50.3 million and acquisition related costs of approximately $1.4 million. As part of the Ardence Acquisition, we assumed approximately 0.1 million non vested stock based awards and approximately 0.1 million stock option upon the closing of the transaction. The sources of funds for consideration paid in the transaction consisted of available cash and investments. Xensource, Inc. On October 19, 2007, we completed our acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of XenSource, Inc., or the XenSource Acquisition, a privately held leader in enterprise grade virtual infrastructure solutions. The acquisition positions us in adjacent server and desktop virtualization markets that will allow us to extend our leadership in the broader Application Delivery Infrastructure market by adding key enabling technologies that make the end to end computing environment more flexible, dynamic and responsive to business change. The total consideration for the XenSource Acquisition was approximately $328.5 million, comprised of approximately 7.1 million shares of our common stock valued at $232.3 million, $92.5 million in cash and approximately $3.7 million in direct transaction costs. In addition, in connection with the XenSource Acquisition we issued approximately 1.3 million unvested shares of our common stock and assumed approximately 3.3 million stock options each of which will be exercisable for the right to receive one share of our common stock upon vesting. The sources of funds for cash consideration paid in the transaction consisted of available cash and investments. The Sevin Rosen funds, a venture capital firm, was a stockholder in XenSource. Stephen Dow, a member of our Board of Directors, is a general partner of the Sevin Rosen funds and did not directly hold any interest in XenSource. Although the Sevin Rosen funds were represented on the Board of Directors of XenSource, Mr. Dow was not a director of XenSource. Our acquisition of XenSource, provided a return to all the partners of the Sevin Rosen funds, including Mr. Dow. Subject to certain assumptions, we estimate that the allocation to Mr. Dow through the general partner entities of the Sevin Rosen funds related to the acquisition of XenSource will be approximately $1.9 million, if and when the Sevin Rosen funds distribute such allocations to its general partner entities. Mr. Dow has been on our Board of Directors since 1989 and currently owns 278,564 shares of our common stock. Mr. Dow did not attend the meeting at which our Board approved the transaction and recused himself from the vote to approve the transaction. Consistent with our policies and the charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, the acquisition of XenSource was reviewed and approved by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. 27 Table of Contents There were no material relationships among us and XenSource or any of their respective affiliates or any of the parties to the agreement to acquire XenSource and related agreements, other than in respect of such agreements themselves and as disclosed in this Annual Report on form 10 K . Revenues from the products acquired in the Ardence Acquisition and the XenSource Acquisition, or together, the 2007 Acquisitions, are primarily included in our Product License revenue. The 2007 Acquisitions results of operations have been included in our consolidated results of operations beginning after the date of the respective acquisitions. Purchase Accounting for the 2007 Acquisitions Under the purchase method of accounting, the purchase prices for the 2007 Acquisitions were allocated to the acquired companies net tangible and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of the date of the completion of the acquisitions. The allocation of the total purchase prices are summarized below (in thousands): Ardence XenSource Purchase PriceAllocation AssetLife Purchase PriceAllocation AssetLife Current assets $ 6,326 $ 19,177 Property and equipment 917 Various 1,224 Various In process research and development 1,200 8,600 Other assets 112 Intangible assets 22,160 1 7 years 146,440 2 8 years Goodwill 43,187 Indefinite 214,299 Indefinite Assets acquired 73,790 389,852 Current liabilities assumed (10,851 ) (4,179 ) Long term liabilities assumed (2,673 ) Deferred tax liabilities, non current (8,577 ) (57,214 ) Net assets acquired, including direct transaction costs $ 51,689 $ 328,459 Current assets acquired in connection with the Ardence Acquisition consisted mainly of accounts receivable and current assets acquired in connection with the XenSource Acquisition consisted mainly of short term deferred tax assets and to a lesser extent, accounts receivable. Current liabilities acquired in the acquisition of Ardence consisted primarily of short term debt and other accrued expenses and current liabilities acquired in the XenSource Acquisition consisted primarily of other accrued expenses. Long term liabilities acquired in the Ardence Acquisition consisted primarily of facilities related costs. Of the goodwill related to the 2007 Acquisitions, approximately $184.5 million was assigned to our Americas segment, approximately $62.0 was assigned to our Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, segment and approximately $11.0 million was assigned to our Asia Pacific segment. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. Please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. 2006 Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of two privately held companies, Reflectent Software, Inc., a provider of solutions to monitor the real time performance of client server, Web and desktop applications from an end user perspective, and Orbital Data Corporation, a provider of solutions that optimize the delivery of applications over wide area networks, together the 2006 Acquisitions. The 2006 Acquisitions strengthen our Citrix Delivery Center products which are designed to offer comprehensive solutions across all dimensions of application delivery. The total consideration for the 2006 Acquisitions was $68.0 million comprised of cash paid of $65.1 million and other costs related primarily to direct transaction costs of $2.9 million. As part of the 2006 Acquisitions, we assumed approximately 0.4 million non vested stock based awards upon the closing of the transaction. The sources of funds for consideration paid in these transactions consisted of available cash and investments. In connection with the 2006 Acquisitions, we allocated $43.7 million to goodwill, $17.3 million to core and product technology and $3.6 million to other intangible assets. We assigned all of the goodwill to our Americas segment 2005 Acquisitions During 2005, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of two privately held companies, NetScaler, Inc. and Teros, Inc., or together, the 2005 Acquisitions, for a total of $172.8 million in cash, 6.6 million shares of our common stock valued at $154.8 million and estimated direct transaction costs of $6.2 million. We also assumed approximately $20.6 million in non vested stock based compensation upon the closing of the NetScaler, Inc., or NetScaler, transaction that was accounted for in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation (an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25) and was recorded as deferred compensation in the accompanying 2005 consolidated 28 Table of Contents balance sheet. The assumed awards had an excess of fair value over intrinsic value of $0.5 million, which is reflected in the total consideration for the transaction. The 2005 Acquisitions further extended our Citrix Delivery Center products, which is designed to offer comprehensive solutions across all dimensions of application delivery. The results of operations of the acquired companies are included as part of our results beginning after their respective dates of acquisition and revenues from the acquired products are included in our Product License revenue and Technical Services revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. In connection with the 2005 Acquisitions, we allocated $230.0 million to goodwill, $40.2 million to core technology and $35.8 million to other intangible assets. We assigned all of the goodwill to our Americas segment. In process Research and Development for Acquisitions The fair values used in determining the purchase price allocation for certain intangible assets for our acquisitions were based on estimated discounted future cash flows, royalty rates and historical data, among other information. Purchased in process research and development, or IPR&D, was expensed immediately upon the closing of our 2007 Acquisitions in the amount of $9.8 million, our 2006 Acquisitions in the amount of $1.0 million and our 2005 Acquisitions in the amount of $7.0 million, in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, due to the fact that it pertained to technology that was not currently technologically feasible, meaning it had not reached the working model stage, did not contain all of the major functions planned for the product, was not ready for initial customer testing and had no alternative future use. The fair value assigned to in process research and development was determined using the income approach, which includes estimating the revenue and expenses associated with a projects sales cycle and by estimating the amount of after tax cash flows attributable to the projects. The future cash flows were discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return, which ranged from 19%36%. The rate of return included a factor that takes into account the uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the IPR&D. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and these estimates form the basis for our judgments concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We periodically evaluate these estimates and judgments based on available information and experience. Actual results could differ from our estimates under different assumptions and conditions. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted. We believe that the accounting policies described below are critical to understanding our business, results of operations and financial condition because they involve more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. We have discussed the development, selection and application of our critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and our independent auditors, and our Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition The accounting related to revenue recognition in the software industry is complex and affected by interpretations of the rules and an understanding of industry practices, both of which are subject to change. As a result, revenue recognition accounting rules require us to make significant judgments. In addition, our judgment is required in assessing the probability of collection, which is generally based on evaluation of customer specific information, historical collection experience and economic market conditions. If market conditions decline, or if the financial condition of our distributors or customers deteriorate, we may be unable to determine that collectability is probable, and we could be required to defer the recognition of revenue until we receive customer payments. We license most of our products bundled with a one year contract for license updates that provide the end user with free enhancements and upgrades to the licensed product on a when and if available basis. Customers may also elect to purchase subscriptions for license updates, when not bundled with the initial product release or purchase, technical support, product training or consulting services. We allocate revenue to license updates and any other undelivered elements of the arrangement 29 Table of Contents based on vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value of each element and such amounts are deferred until the applicable delivery criteria and other revenue recognition criteria have been met. The balance of the revenue, net of any discounts inherent in the arrangement, is recognized at the outset of the arrangement using the residual method as the product licenses are delivered. If we cannot objectively determine the fair value of each undelivered element based on the VSOE fair value, we defer revenue recognition until all elements are delivered, all services have been performed, or until fair value can be objectively determined. We must apply judgment in determining all elements of the arrangement and in determining the VSOE of fair value for each element, considering the price charged for each product or applicable renewal rates for license updates. In the normal course of business, we are not obligated to accept product returns from our distributors under any other conditions, unless the product item is defective in manufacture, but we do provide most of our distributors with stock balancing and price protection rights. Stock balancing rights permit distributors to return products to us up to the forty fifth day of the fiscal quarter, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of our other products prior to the last day of the same fiscal quarter. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors or resellers if we lower our prices for such products. Product items returned to us under the stock balancing program must be in new, unused and unopened condition. We establish provisions for estimated returns for stock balancing and price protection rights, as well as other sales allowances, concurrently with the recognition of revenue. The provisions are established based upon consideration of a variety of factors, including, among other things, recent and historical return rates for both specific products and distributors, estimated distributor inventory levels by product, the impact of any new product releases and projected economic conditions. Actual product returns for stock balancing and price protection provisions incurred are, however, dependent upon future events, including the amount of stock balancing activity by our distributors and the level of distributor inventories at the time of any price adjustments. We continually monitor the factors that influence the pricing of our products and distributor inventory levels and make adjustments to these provisions when we believe actual returns and other allowances could differ from established reserves. Our ability to recognize revenue upon shipment to our distributors is predicated on our ability to reliably estimate future stock balancing returns. If actual experience or changes in market condition impairs our ability to estimate returns, we would be required to defer the recognition of revenue until the delivery of the product to the end user. Allowances for estimated product returns amounted to approximately $1.7 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. We have not reduced and have no current plans to reduce our prices for inventory currently held by distributors or resellers. Accordingly, there were no reserves required for price protection at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. We also record reductions to revenue for customer programs and incentive offerings including volume based incentives, at the time the sale is recorded. If market conditions were to decline, we could take actions to increase our customer incentive offerings, which could result in an incremental reduction to our revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Stock Based Compensation We adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, Share Based Payment on January 1, 2006, the effective date for such adoption. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for our stock based compensation plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, as permitted by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. We did not recognize compensation cost related to stock options granted to our employees and non employee directors that had an exercise price equal to or above the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant in our consolidated statement of income prior to January 1, 2006. We elected to adopt SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method, under which compensation cost, based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123R, is recognized beginning with the effective date for all stock based awards granted to employees after the effective date and prior to the effective date that remain unvested as of the effective date. In addition, under the modified prospective method prior periods are not revised for comparative purposes. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R, stock based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service or performance period, which is the vesting period. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options. The determination of the fair value of stock based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, the expected term of the award, the risk free interest rate and any expected dividends. For purposes of determining the expected volatility factor, we considered the implied volatility in two year market traded options on our common stock based on third party volatility quotes in accordance with the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 107. Our decision to use implied volatility was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our common stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The expected term of our options is based on historical employee exercise patterns. We also analyzed our historical pattern of option exercises based on certain demographic characteristics and we determined that there were no meaningful differences in option exercise activity based on demographic characteristics. The approximate risk free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with remaining terms equivalent to the expected term on our options. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, accordingly, we used a dividend yield of zero in the 30 Table of Contents option pricing model. We are required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre vesting option forfeitures and record stock based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. All stock based payment awards that vest based on service, including those with graded vesting schedules, are amortized on a straight line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods. Beginning in 2006, we began issuing non vested stock units and non vested stock with performance goals to certain senior members of management. The number of non vested stock units or non vested stock underlying each award may be determined based on a range of attainment within defined performance goals. We are required to estimate the attainment that will be achieved related to the defined performance goals and number of non vested stock units or non vested stock that will ultimately be awarded in order to recognize compensation expense over the vesting period. If our initial estimates of performance goal attainment change, the related expense may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on those estimates and if the performance goals are not met, no compensation cost will be recognized and any previously recognized compensation cost will be reversed. As of December 31, 2007, there was $217.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to options, non vested stock and non vested stock units. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.38 years. If factors change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock based compensation expense in future periods or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the stock based compensation expense we recognize in future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect our operating income, net income and earnings per share. This may result in a lack of consistency in future periods and materially affect the fair value estimate of stock based payments. It may also result in a lack of comparability with other companies that use different models, methods and assumptions. The Black Scholes option pricing model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. These characteristics are not present in our option grants. Existing valuation models, including the Black Scholes and lattice binomial models, may not provide reliable measures of the fair values of our stock based compensation. Consequently, there is a risk that our estimates of the fair values of our stock based compensation awards on the grant dates may bear little resemblance to the actual values realized upon the exercise, expiration, early termination or forfeiture of those stock based payments in the future. Certain stock based payments, such as employee stock options, may expire with little or no intrinsic value compared to the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. Alternatively, the value realized from these instruments may be significantly higher than the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. There is currently no market based mechanism or other practical application to verify the reliability and accuracy of the estimates stemming from these valuation models, nor is there a means to compare and adjust the estimates to actual values. The guidance in SFAS No. 123R and SAB No. 107 is relatively new from an application perspective and the application of these principles may be subject to further interpretation and refinement over time. See Notes 2 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for further information regarding our adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Core and Product Technology Assets We have acquired our core and product technology assets from our business combinations and other third party agreements. In applying purchase accounting, we allocate a portion of purchase price of acquired companies to the core and product technology assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. We typically engage third party appraisal firms to assist us in determining the fair values of core and product technology assets acquired. Such valuations require us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in determining the fair value of the core and product technology assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows earned from the core and product technology and discount rates applied in determining the present value of those cash flows. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. We review acquired core and product technology assets for impairment on a periodic basis by comparing the estimated net realizable value to the unamortized cost of the technology. The recoverability of these technologies is primarily dependent upon our ability to commercialize products utilizing these technologies. The estimated net realizable value of the purchased technology is based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such technology. Our assumptions about future revenues and expenses require significant judgment associated with the forecast of the performance of our products. Actual revenues and costs could vary significantly from these forecasted amounts. As of December 31, 2007, the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from core and product technology assets from these acquisitions is sufficient to recover their carrying value. If these products are not ultimately accepted by our customers and distributors, and there is no alternative future use for the technology, we could determine that some or all of their remaining $177.3 million carrying value is impaired. In the event of impairment, we would record an impairment charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Goodwill At December 31, 2007, we had $888.5 million in goodwill primarily related to our acquisitions. The goodwill recorded in relation to these acquisitions is not deductible for tax purposes. We operate in a single industry segment consisting of the design, 31 Table of Contents development and marketing of technology solutions that deliver applications on demand. Our revenues are derived from sales of our Citrix Delivery Center products and related technical services in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific regions and from online services sold by our Online Services division. These three geographic regions and the Online Services division constitute our reportable segments. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for additional information regarding our reportable segments. We evaluate goodwill along these segments, which represent our reporting units. Substantially all of our goodwill at December 31, 2007 was associated with our Americas and Online Services division reportable segments. Excluding goodwill, we have no intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives. We use judgment in assessing goodwill for impairment. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value. Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we completed the required annual impairment tests of goodwill as of December 31, 2007. There were no impairment charges recorded as a result of our annual impairment tests. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy, product portfolio or reportable segments, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill could change in the future, which could result in non cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Income Taxes We are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $43.0 million in deferred tax assets. SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets reported if, based on the weight of the evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We review deferred tax assets periodically for recoverability and make estimates and judgments regarding the expected geographic sources of taxable income and gains from investments, as well as tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. At December 31, 2007, we determined that no valuation allowance was necessary to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. If the estimates and assumptions used in our determination change in the future, we could be required to revise our estimates of the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets and adjust our provisions for additional income taxes. In the ordinary course of global business, there are transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain, thus judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. We provide for income taxes on transactions based on our estimate of the probable liability. We adjust our provision as appropriate for changes that impact our underlying judgments. Changes that impact provision estimates include such items as jurisdictional interpretations on tax filing positions based on the results of tax audits and general tax authority rulings. Due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The following discussion relating to the individual financial statement captions, our overall financial performance, operations and financial position should be read in conjunction with the factors and events described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Risk Factors, which could impact our future performance and financial position. Stock Option Investigation and Related Matters On November 30, 2006, our Audit Committee commenced a voluntary, independent investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and related accounting during the period from January 1996 through December 2006. In addition to the grants management evaluated as part of the Audit Committees investigation, we also evaluated all grants (consisting of two employee new hire grants) in December 1995, which was the month we completed our initial public offering, and all grants to non employee directors. This voluntary investigation was not in response to any governmental investigation, stockholder lawsuit, whistleblower complaint or inquiries from media organizations. Our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2006, which was filed on September 7, 2007, contains a description of the Audit Committees investigation, managements related review, the conclusions of the Audit Committee and management and the restatement of our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders equity and comprehensive income and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and each of the quarters in the 2006 and 2005 fiscal years, to reflect additional stock based compensation expense and related income tax effects for stock option awards granted since December 1995. Since the beginning of our stock option investigation on November 30, 2006, we have incurred approximately $12.3 million in professional fees in connection with the investigation. Of the $12.3 million in investigation related expenses, we incurred approximately $11.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. 32 Table of Contents Results of Operations Our operations consist of the design, development and marketing of technology solutions that deliver applications on demand with high performance, enhanced security and improved total cost of ownership, or TCO. We market and license our products through multiple channels such as value added resellers, channel distributors, system integrators, independent software vendors, our Websites and original equipment manufacturers. A substantial majority of our overseas operating expenses and capital purchasing activities are transacted in local currencies and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to minimize the impact on our operating results, we generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks up to one year in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses. When the dollar is weak, foreign currency denominated expenses will be higher; these higher expenses will be partially offset by the gain in our hedging contracts. If the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower, and our hedging practices will cause these lower expenses to be partially offset by the aggregate loss in our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the one year timeframe for which we hedge our risk. Due to the generally weaker dollar during the year ended December 31, 2007, our operating expenses benefited from gains in our hedging programs as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Our cost of services revenues and operating expenses increased for 2006 when compared to 2005 due to the recognition of stock based compensation expense related to our adoption of SFAS No. 123R. In 2008, we anticipate that our stock based compensation expense will increase primarily due to awards assumed in conjunction with our XenSource Acquisition. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and 2007 Acquisitions as well as Notes 2, 3 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for more information related to our adoption of SFAS No. 123R and our acquisitions. The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of income data and presentation of that data as a percentage of change from period to period. Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Revenues: Product licenses $ 577,144 $ 488,487 $ 409,435 18.1 % 19.3 % License updates 484,669 405,756 331,102 19.4 22.5 Online services 213,744 148,795 99,097 43.6 50.2 Technical services 116,385 91,281 69,088 27.5 32.1 Total net revenues 1,391,942 1,134,319 908,722 22.7 24.8 Cost of revenues: Cost of product license revenues 42,984 32,911 14,404 30.6 128.5 Cost of services revenues 65,027 46,585 26,929 39.6 73.0 Amortization of product related intangible assets 29,596 19,202 16,766 54.1 14.5 Total cost of revenues 137,607 98,698 58,099 39.4 69.9 Gross margin 1,254,335 1,035,621 850,623 21.1 21.7 Operating expenses: Research and development 205,103 155,331 108,751 32.0 42.8 Sales, marketing and support 590,409 480,343 394,153 22.9 21.9 General and administrative 229,229 178,669 125,425 28.3 42.5 Amortization of other intangible assets 17,387 16,934 11,622 2.7 45.7 In process research and development 9,800 1,000 7,000 * (85.7 ) Total operating expenses 1,051,928 832,277 646,951 26.4 28.6 Income from operations 202,407 203,344 203,672 (0.5 ) (0.2 ) Interest income 49,704 41,210 23,614 20.6 74.5 Interest expense (737 ) (927 ) (2,426 ) (20.5 ) (61.8 ) Other expense, net (466 ) (546 ) (506 ) (14.7 ) 7.9 Income before income taxes 250,908 243,081 224,354 3.2 8.3 Income taxes 36,425 60,084 58,745 (39.4 ) 2.3 Net income $ 214,483 $ 182,997 $ 165,609 17.2 10.5 * not meaningful. 33 Table of Contents Revenues Net revenues include the following categories: Product Licenses, License Updates, Online Services and Technical Services. Product Licenses primarily represent fees related to the licensing of the following products: Our Application Virtualization products, including XenApp (formerly Presentation Server) and Access Essentials; Our Application Networking products, including our NetScaler, Access Gateway and WANScaler products; Our Application Performance Monitoring products, including EdgeSight; and Our Server Virtualization products, including Provisioning Server (formerly Ardence) and XenServer, both acquired in our 2007 Acquisitions. In addition, we offer incentive programs to our channel distributors and value added resellers to stimulate demand for our products. Revenues associated with these programs are partially offset by these incentives to our channel distributors and value added resellers. Our Application Virtualization Product License revenue accounted for approximately 76.3% of our Product License revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, 81.0% of our Product License revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 93.2% of our Product License revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in our Application Virtualization Product License revenue as a percent of our total Product License revenue when comparing the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily due to increased sales of our Application Networking products, including the full year impact of the addition of our WANScaler products, and to a lesser extent, the addition of our Provisioning Server products in 2007 and the full year impact of our EdgeSight products. During 2008, we expect our Application Virtualization Product License revenue to continue to decrease as a percent of our total Product License revenue primarily due to expected increases in sales of our newly acquired XenServer product and our Application Networking products. License Updates consist of fees related to our Subscription Advantage program that are recognized ratably over the term of the contract, which is typically 12 to 24 months. Subscription Advantage is an annual renewable program that provides subscribers with automatic delivery of software upgrades, enhancements and maintenance releases when and if they become available during the term of the subscription. We anticipate that Subscription Advantage will continue to be of strategic importance to our business throughout 2008 because it fosters long term customer relationships and gives us improved visibility and predictability due to the recurring nature of this revenue stream. Online Services revenues consist primarily of fees related to online service agreements and are recognized ratably over the contract term. Technical Services revenues are comprised of fees from technical support services which are recognized ratably over the contract term, as well as revenues from product training and certification, and consulting services revenue related to implementation of our products, which is recognized as the services are provided. Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Revenues: Product licenses $ 577,144 $ 488,487 $ 409,435 $ 88,657 $ 79,052 License updates 484,669 405,756 331,102 78,913 74,654 Online services 213,744 148,795 99,097 64,949 49,698 Technical services 116,385 91,281 69,088 25,104 22,193 Total net revenues $ 1,391,942 $ 1,134,319 $ 908,722 $ 257,623 $ 225,597 Product Licenses Product License revenue increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 primarily due to increased sales of our Application Virtualization and Application Networking products and, to a lesser extent due to sales of our Provisioning Server products acquired in 2007. Product License revenue increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to the full year impact and increased sales of our Application Networking products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of our Application Virtualization products. We currently anticipate that our Application Virtualization Product License revenue will be flat to slightly down when comparing the first quarter of 2008 to the fourth quarter of 2007; however, for fiscal year 2008, we expect Product License revenue to increase overall primarily due to growth from our Application Virtualization products, expected growth from sales of our newly acquired XenSource products, and to a lesser extent, increased sales of our Application Networking products. 34 Table of Contents License Updates License Updates revenue increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 and increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to a larger base of subscribers and increasing renewals related to our Subscription Advantage program. We also currently anticipate that License Updates revenue will continue to increase in 2008 due primarily to increased renewals and continued growth in our installed customer base. Online Services Online Services revenue increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 primarily due to increased sales of our real time application collaboration products. Online Services revenue increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to increased customer adoptions and renewals of our Online Services products. We currently expect Online Services revenues to continue to increase in 2008 but at a slower rate than experienced when comparing 2007 to 2006. Technical Services Technical Services revenue increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 primarily due to increased sales of support services related to our Application Networking products and to a lesser extent an increase in sales of support and services related to the implementation of our Application Virtualization products. Technical Services revenue increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to the full year impact and increased sales of support and services related to our Application Networking products and an increase in sales of services and support related to the implementation of our Application Virtualization products. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenues are primarily comprised of License Updates revenue from our Subscription Advantage product, Online Services revenues from annual service agreements for our online services products and Technical Services revenues related to our support services and consulting contracts. Deferred revenues increased approximately $86.4 million as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 primarily due to increased renewals of our Subscription Advantage product, increased new sales of our Subscription Advantage product, increased sales of our online service agreements and, to a lesser extent, sales of services related to our Application Networking products. We currently expect deferred revenue to continue to increase in 2008. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance. While it is generally our practice to promptly ship our products upon receipt of properly finalized purchase orders, we sometimes have product license orders that have not shipped or have otherwise not met all the required criteria for revenue recognition. Although the amount of such product license orders may vary, the amount, if any, of such product license orders at the end of a particular period has not been material to total revenue at the end of the same period. International Revenues International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for approximately 44.5% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, 47.4% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 50.0% for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in international revenue as a percent of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily due to increased sales performance and growth in our Online Services products, which are currently primarily comprised of domestic revenues, and increased performance in the United States across most product offerings. For detailed information on international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Segment Revenues An analysis of our reportable segment net revenue is presented below: Year Ended December 31, RevenueGrowth2006 to 2007 RevenueGrowth2005 to 2006 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Americas (1) $ 614,181 $ 499,278 $ 397,233 23.0 % 25.7 % EMEA (2) 447,201 391,650 334,900 14.2 16.9 Asia Pacific 116,816 94,596 77,492 23.5 22.1 Online Services division 213,744 148,795 99,097 43.6 50.2 Consolidated net revenues $ 1,391,942 $ 1,134,319 $ 908,722 22.7 24.8 (1) Our Americas segment is comprised of the United States, Canada and Latin America. (2) Defined as Europe, Middle East and Africa. 35 Table of Contents With respect to our segment revenues, the increase in net revenues for the comparative periods presented was due primarily to the factors previously discussed across our reportable segments. For additional information on our segment revenues, please refer to Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Cost of product license revenues $ 42,984 $ 32,911 $ 14,404 $ 10,073 $ 18,507 Cost of services revenues 65,027 46,585 26,929 18,442 19,656 Amortization of product related intangible assets 29,596 19,202 16,766 10,394 2,436 Total cost of revenues $ 137,607 $ 98,698 $ 58,099 $ 38,909 $ 40,599 Cost of product license revenues consists primarily of hardware, product media and duplication, manuals, packaging materials, shipping expense, server capacity costs and royalties. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of compensation and other personnel related costs of providing technical support and consulting, as well as the costs related to our Online Services products. Also included in cost of revenues is amortization of product related intangible assets. Cost of product licenses revenues increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 primarily due to increased sales of our Application Networking products which contain hardware components that have a higher cost than our other software products. Cost of services revenues increased during 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increases in sales of our Online Services products and an increase in support related to our Application Virtualization and Application Networking products. Amortization of product related intangible assets increased during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to amortization of product related intangible assets acquired in acquisitions. For more information regarding our acquisitions, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. We currently anticipate that in 2008, cost of product license revenues will continue to increase as compared to current levels as we currently expect sales of our Application Networking products, which have a hardware component, to increase. In addition, in 2008, we currently expect our cost of services revenues to increase due to increased sales of our Online Services products and an increase in technical support costs and increased sales of services as we grow our customer base, have more frequent product releases and more complex products. Cost of product licenses revenues increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to increased sales and the full year impact of the acquisition of our Application Networking products which contain hardware components that have a higher cost than our other software products. Cost of services revenues increased during 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in support and increased sales of our educational and consulting services related to our Application Virtualization products, increases in sales of our Online Services products, the full year impact and increased sales of support and educational services related to our Application Networking products and the impact of stock based compensation expenses related to our adoption of SFAS No 123R. Amortization of product related intangible assets increased during 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to amortization of product related intangible assets acquired in acquisitions. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 90.1% for 2007, 91.3% for 2006 and 93.6% for 2005. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue for all periods presented was primarily due to the increase in cost of revenues as discussed above. We currently expect that our gross margin will continue to trend slightly downwards in 2008 due to the factors discussed above under Cost of Revenues. 36 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Research and development $ 205,103 $ 155,331 $ 108,751 $ 49,772 $ 46,580 Research and development expenses consisted primarily of personnel related costs. We expensed substantially all development costs included in the research and development of our products and new functionality added to our existing products as incurred, except for certain core technologies with alternative future uses. Research and development expenses increased during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in staffing and related personnel costs due to the full year impact of our 2006 Acquisitions, our 2007 Acquisitions and continued investments in our business, which included the hiring of personnel. We expect research and development expenses to increase in 2008 due to the full year impact of the XenSource Acquisition and continued investments in our business including the hiring of personnel. For more information regarding our acquisitions see, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Research and development expenses increased during 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in staffing and related personnel costs due to the full year impact of our 2005 Acquisitions, our 2006 Acquisitions, continued investments in our business including the hiring of personnel, and additional compensation expense related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Sales, Marketing and Support Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Sales, marketing and support $ 590,409 $ 480,343 $ 394,153 $ 110,066 $ 86,190 Sales, marketing and support expenses consisted primarily of personnel related costs, including sales commissions, and the costs of marketing programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Sales, marketing and support expenses increased during 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in headcount and the associated increase in salaries and employee related expenses due to our continued investment in our business and the full year impact of our 2006 Acquisitions and the impact of our 2007 Acquisitions. In addition, sales, marketing and support expenses increased during 2007 compared to 2006 due to an increase in commissions related to our growing sales force and payments made under new programs adopted to promote sales of our newer products, an increase in commissions paid to our resellers and, to a lesser extent, an increase in marketing program costs related to our worldwide advertising campaigns. During 2007, we also increased our utilization of personnel for revenue generating activities, which is reflected as cost of service revenues rather than sales, marketing and support expenses. In 2008, we currently expect sales, marketing and support expenses to increase due to the full year impact of our XenSource Acquisition and increased compensation costs as we continue to make investments in our business and hire personnel. For more information regarding our acquisitions see, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Sales, marketing and support expenses increased during 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in headcount and the associated increase in salaries, commissions and other variable compensation and employee related expenses, the full year impact of our 2005 Acquisitions and the impact of our 2006 Acquisitions, additional compensation costs related to our adoption of SFAS No. 123R and an increase in marketing program costs related to our worldwide advertising campaigns. During 2006, we increased our utilization of personnel for revenue generating activities during 2006 as compared to 2005, which is reflected as cost of service revenues rather than sales, marketing and support expenses. General and Administrative Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) General and administrative $ 229,229 $ 178,669 $ 125,425 $ 50,560 $ 53,244 General and administrative expenses consisted primarily of personnel related related costs and expenses related to outside consultants assisting with regulatory compliance and information systems, as well as auditing and legal fees. General and 37 Table of Contents administrative expenses increased during 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in headcount and the associated salaries and employee related expenses due to our continued investment in our business and systems to support our growth, the full year impact of our 2006 Acquisitions and the impact of our 2007 Acquisitions, an increase in expenses related to outside consultants assisting us with information systems and regulatory compliance, increases in auditing, consulting and legal fees primarily related to the investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and the associated restatements of our prior consolidated financial statements and, to a lesser extent, an increase in depreciation primarily related to information systems. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in 2008 primarily due to the full year impact of our XenSource Acquisition and continued investments to support our future growth. For more information regarding our acquisitions see, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. General and administrative expenses increased during 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to increases in auditing, consulting and legal fees which included costs related to the investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and the associated restatements of our prior consolidated financial statements, as well as additional compensation costs related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, an increase in headcount and the associated salaries and employee related expenses, and the full year impact of our 2005 Acquisitions and, to a lesser extent, the impact of our 2006 Acquisitions. Amortization of Other Intangible Assets Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Amortization of the other intangible assets $ 17,387 $ 16,934 $ 11,622 $ 453 $ 5,312 The increase in amortization of other intangible assets during 2007 as compared to 2006 was not significant. Amortization of other intangible assets increased during 2006 as compared to 2005 due to an increase in amortization expense related to certain finite intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions. As of December 31, 2007, we had unamortized other identified intangible assets with estimable useful lives in the net amount of $99.0 million. We currently expect amortization expense to increase during 2008 as a result of our acquisitions. For more information regarding our acquisitions see, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. In Process Research and Development Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) In process research and development $ 9,800 $ 1,000 $ 7,000 $ 8,800 $ (6,000 ) In 2007, $9.8 million of the purchase price paid for our 2007 Acquisitions was allocated to IPR&D, in 2006, $1.0 million of the purchase price paid for our 2006 Acquisitions was allocated to IPR&D, and in 2005, $7.0 million of the purchase price paid for our 2005 Acquisitions was allocated to IPR&D. The amounts allocated to IPR&D in our acquisitions had not yet reached technological feasibility, had no alternative future use and were written off at the date of the acquisitions in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method. For more information regarding the acquisitions, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our efforts with respect to the acquired technologies currently consist of design and development that may be required to support the release of the technologies into updated versions of existing service offerings and potentially new product and service offerings related to the products acquired in our XenSource, Ardence, and NetScaler Acquisitions. We currently expect that we will successfully develop new products or services utilizing the acquired in process technology, but there can be no assurance that commercial viability of future product or service offerings will be achieved. Furthermore, future developments in the software industry, changes in technology, changes in other products and offerings or other developments may cause us to alter or abandon product plans. Failure to complete the development of projects in their entirety, or in a timely manner, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The fair value assigned to IPR&D was based on valuations prepared using methodologies and valuation techniques consistent with those used by independent appraisers. All fair values were determined using the income approach, which includes estimating the revenue and expenses associated with a projects sales cycle and by estimating the amount of after tax cash flows attributable 38 Table of Contents to the projects. The future cash flows were discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return, which ranged from 19% to 36%. The rate of return included a factor that takes into account the uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the IPR&D. Interest Income Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Interest income $ 49,704 $ 41,210 $ 23,614 $ 8,494 $ 17,596 Interest income increased during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to overall higher average cash, cash equivalent and investment balances that resulted primarily from an increase in cash from operations and proceeds received from employee stock based compensation plans, partially offset by an increase in cash paid for acquisitions and capital expenditures. Interest income increased during 2006 as compared to 2005 due to higher interest rates earned on overall higher average cash, cash equivalent and investment balances that resulted primarily from increased proceeds received from employee stock based compensation plans, a decrease in cash spent for acquisitions and an increase in cash from operations, partially offset by increased spending on stock repurchases, an increase in net payments made on our debt and an increase in capital expenditures. For more information see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Interest expense $ (737 ) $ (927 ) $ (2,426 ) $ 190 $ 1,499 The decrease in interest expense during 2007 compared to 2006 is not significant. Interest expense decreased during 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the repayment of our term loan facility, or the Term Loan, in February 2006. For more information see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Other Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Other expense, net $ (466 ) $ (546 ) $ (506 ) $ 80 $ (40 ) Other expense, net is primarily comprised of remeasurement and foreign currency transaction gains (losses), other than temporary declines in the value of our equity investments and debt instruments and realized gains (losses) on the sale of available for sale investments. Other expense, net remained relatively flat when comparing 2007 to 2006 and when comparing 2006 to 2005. Income Taxes On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act, or the AJCA, was signed into law. The AJCA provided for an 85% dividends received deduction on dividend distributions of foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer, if certain conditions are met. During the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we completed our evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision of the AJCA and our Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors approved our dividend reinvestment plan, or DRP, under the AJCA. During 2005, we repatriated approximately $503.0 million of certain foreign earnings, of which $500.0 million qualified for the 85% dividends received deduction. During 2005, we recorded an estimated tax provision of approximately $24.4 million related to the repatriation. Additionally, during 2005, we recorded the reversal of approximately $8.8 million for income taxes on certain foreign earnings for which a deferred tax liability had been previously recorded. 39 Table of Contents We maintain certain operational and administrative processes in overseas subsidiaries and its foreign earnings are taxed at lower foreign tax rates. Other than the one time repatriation provision under the AJCA described above, we do not expect to remit earnings from our foreign subsidiaries. We establish tax reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain of these positions may be challenged. While it is often difficult to predict whether we will prevail, we believe that our tax reserves reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies. As such, included in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 is the reduction of approximately $11.0 million in tax reserves related to the expiration of a statute of limitations for the 2003 tax year partially offset by an additional tax reserve of approximately $1.4 million related to uncertainties arising in 2007. In 2007, our effective tax rate decreased to approximately (3.5%) from 25.5% when comparing the three months ended December 31, 2007 to the three months ended December 31, 2006 and decreased to 14.5% from 24.7% when comparing the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 to the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to the reduction in tax reserves for uncertain tax positions related to prior years. In 2006, our effective tax rate decreased to approximately 24.7% from 26.2% primarily due to the tax impact of the dividend repatriated under the AJCA in 2005 partially offset by the tax effects of our adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate throughout 2008 based on a number of factors including variations in estimated taxable income in our geographic locations, completed and potential acquisitions, the effects of FASB Interpretation, or FIN, No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, and the effects of SFAS No. 123R and changes in statutory tax rates, among others. Liquidity and Capital Resources During 2007, we generated positive operating cash flows of $424.1 million. These cash flows related primarily to net income of $214.5 million, adjusted for, among other things, non cash charges including depreciation and amortization of $85.2 million, stock based compensation expense of $65.5 million and the tax effect of stock based compensation of $15.5 million. These cash inflows are partially offset by an operating cash outflow of $17.8 million related to the excess tax benefit due to the exercise of stock based awards. Also attributing to these cash inflows is an aggregate increase in cash flow from our operating assets and liabilities of $40.3 million, net of the effects of acquisitions. Our investing activities used $417.6 million of cash consisting primarily of the net purchases after reinvestment, from sales and maturities of our available for sale investments of $180.4 million. These cash outflows also consisted of cash paid for our 2007 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $148.1 million and the expenditure of $85.9 million for the purchase of property and equipment. Our financing activities used cash of $131.8 million primarily related to $260.0 million of cash paid under our stock repurchase programs and $8.0 million paid on our debt. These cash outflows are partially offset by $118.4 million in proceeds received from employee stock compensation plans and $17.8 million related to excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock based awards. During 2006, we generated positive operating cash flows of $328.7 million. These cash flows related primarily to net income of $183.0 million, adjusted for, among other things, non cash charges including depreciation and amortization of $63.6 million, stock based compensation expense of $61.6 million and the tax effect of stock based compensation of $40.6 million. These cash inflows are partially offset by an operating cash outflow of $51.9 million related to the excess tax benefit due to the exercise of stock based awards and a deferred income tax benefit of $4.4 million. Also attributed to these cash inflows is an aggregate increase in cash flow from our operating assets and liabilities of $24.6 million, net of the effects of acquisitions. Our investing activities used $437.3 million of cash consisting primarily of the net purchases after reinvestment, from sales and maturities of our available for sale investments of $323.7 million. These cash outflows also consisted of cash paid for the 2006 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $61.5 million and the expenditure of $52.1 million for the purchase of property and equipment. Our financing activities used cash of $26.4 million primarily related to $274.2 million of cash paid under our stock repurchase programs and $34.9 million paid on our debt. These cash outflows are partially offset by $230.7 million in proceeds received from employee stock compensation plans and $51.9 million related to excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock based awards. 40 Table of Contents Historically, significant portions of our cash inflows were generated by our operations. We currently expect this trend to continue throughout 2008. We believe that our existing cash and investments together with cash flows expected from operations will be sufficient to meet expected operating and capital expenditure requirements for the next 12 months. We continue to search for suitable acquisition candidates and could acquire or make investments in companies we believe are related to our strategic objectives. We could from time to time seek to raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities for larger acquisitions. Cash and Investments Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2007 2006 (In thousands) Cash and investments $ 798,510 $ 743,381 $ 55,129 The increase in cash and investments at December 31, 2007 as compared to December 31, 2006, is primarily due to an increase in cash from operations and proceeds received from employee stock based compensation plans, partially offset by an increase in cash paid for acquisitions and capital expenditures. We generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in investment grade, highly liquid securities to allow for flexibility in the event of immediate cash needs. Our short term and long term investments primarily consist of interest bearing securities. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for further information. In February 2008, we held approximately $45.5 million in triple A rated municipal auction rate securities whose underlying assets are generally student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. The market for municipal auction rate securities in our portfolio began experiencing auction failures on February 13, 2008. For the securities that experienced a failure the issuer will pay interest at a failure rate on the regular auction date, which is every 28 days for the securities in our portfolio. The securities will not be liquid until the auctions are successful or the issuers are able to refinance, call and /or restructure their obligations to a different interest rate mode. In the event we need to access the funds related to the affected securities, we may not be able to do so without a potential loss of principal unless future auctions on these securities are successful. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or refinance their obligations and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these securities and recognize an impairment charge for an other than temporary decline in the fair values. Based on our available cash and other investments, we do not currently anticipate that the lack of liquidity caused by the failed auctions of these securities will have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows or financial position. Restricted Cash Equivalents and Investments Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2007 2006 (In thousands) Restricted cash equivalents and investments $ 63,735 $ 63,815 $ (80 ) Restricted cash equivalents and investments as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 are primarily comprised of approximately $62.8 million in investment securities and cash equivalents pledged as collateral for specified obligations under our synthetic lease arrangement. We maintain the ability to manage the composition of the restricted cash equivalents and investments within certain limits and to withdraw and use excess investment earnings from the pledged collateral for operating purposes. For further information regarding our synthetic lease, see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Accounts Receivable, Net Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2007 2006 (In thousands) Accounts receivable $ 230,422 $ 209,011 $ 21,411 Allowance for returns (1,670 ) (1,667 ) (3 ) Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,891 ) (2,370 ) (521 ) Accounts receivable, net $ 225,861 $ 204,974 $ 20,887 41 Table of Contents The increase in accounts receivable at December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 was primarily due to an increase in sales, particularly in the last month of 2007 compared to the last month of 2006. Our allowance for returns remained relatively constant during 2007 as compared to 2006. The activity in our allowance for returns was comprised of $3.8 million in credits issued for stock balancing rights during 2007 offset by $3.5 million of provisions for returns recorded during 2007 and $0.3 million charged to other accounts. Our allowance for doubtful accounts increased by $0.5 million when comparing 2007 to 2006. The activity in our allowance for doubtful accounts was comprised primarily of an additional $2.6 million of provisions for doubtful accounts recorded during the year partially offset by $2.1 million of uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries. From time to time, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances from our distributors or customers, which are comprised of large business enterprises, governments and small and medium sized businesses. If the financial condition of our distributors or customers deteriorates, our operating results could be adversely affected. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, no distributor or customer accounted for more than 10% of our accounts receivable. For more information regarding significant customers see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Credit Facility and Term Loan Effective on August 9, 2005, we entered into the Credit Facility with a group of financial institutions, or the Lenders. Effective September 27, 2006, we entered into an amendment and restatement of the Credit Facility, or the Amendment. The Amendment decreased the overall range of interest we will pay on amounts outstanding on the Credit Facility and lowered the facility fee. In addition, the Amendment extended the term of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility, as amended, allows us to increase the revolving credit commitment up to a maximum aggregate revolving credit commitment of $175.0 million. The Credit Facility, as amended, currently provides for a revolving line of credit that will expire on September 27, 2011 in the aggregate amount of $100.0 million, subject to continued covenant compliance. A portion of the revolving line of credit (i) in the aggregate amount of $25.0 million may be available for issuances of letters of credit and (ii) in the aggregate amount of $15.0 million may be available for swing line loans. The Credit Facility, as amended, currently bears interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus 0.32% and adjusts in the future in the range of 0.32% to 0.80% above LIBOR based on the level of our total debt and our adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA. In addition, we are required to pay an annual facility fee ranging from 0.08% to 0.20% based on the aggregate amount available under the Credit Facility, as amended, and the level of our total debt and adjusted EBITDA. During the year ended December 31, 2007, no funds were borrowed under the Credit Facility, as amended, and as of December 31, 2007 there were no amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility, as amended. Effective on August 9, 2005, we entered into the Term Loan with the Lenders. The Term Loan provided for an eighteen month single draw term loan facility in the aggregate amount of $100.0 million. The Term Loans interest rate was LIBOR plus 0.5% and adjusted in the range of 0.5% to 1.25% above LIBOR based on the level of our total debt and adjusted EBITDA. In addition, we were required to pay an annual facility fee ranging from 0.125% to 0.25% based on the aggregate amount of the Term Loan and the level of our total debt and adjusted EBITDA. We used the proceeds from the Term Loan to partially fund the repatriation of certain of our foreign earnings in connection with the AJCA. In February 2006, we repaid the remaining $31.0 million outstanding under the Term Loan in full. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors has authorized an ongoing stock repurchase program with a total repurchase authority granted to us of $1.8 billion, of which $300 million was authorized in January 2008. We may use the approved dollar authority to repurchase stock at any time until the approved amounts are exhausted. The objective of our stock repurchase program is to improve stockholders return. At December 31, 2007, approximately $33.5 million was available to repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase program. All shares repurchased are recorded as treasury stock. A significant portion of the funds used to repurchase stock was provided by proceeds from employee stock option exercises and the related tax benefit. We are authorized to make open market purchases of our common stock using general corporate funds. During 2007 and 2006, we entered into structured stock repurchase arrangements with large financial institutions using general corporate funds as part of our stock repurchase program in order to lower the average cost to acquire shares. These programs include terms that require us to make up front payments to the counterparty financial institution and result in the receipt of stock during or at the end of the term of the agreement or the receipt of either stock or cash at the maturity of the agreement, depending on market conditions. We did not enter into any structured stock repurchase agreements or repurchase any shares of outstanding common stock during our voluntary investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and related accounting. We made up front payments to financial institutions, net of cash and premiums received of approximately $110.0 million in 2007 and $114.4 million in 2006 under our structured stock repurchase arrangements. In addition, we received cash and premiums of approximately $40.0 million in 2007 and $41.8 million in 2006 from expired prepaid programs based upon the terms of those agreements. We took delivery of 1,655,089 shares at an average price of $35.34 per share in 2007 and we took delivery of 4,307,112 shares at an average price of $30.76 per share in 2006 from our structured repurchase agreements. As of December 31, 2007, we had 42 Table of Contents prepaid notional amounts of approximately $87.9 million remaining under our structured stock repurchase programs, which expire on various dates through September 2008. Due to the fact that the total shares to be received under our structured repurchase arrangements at December 31, 2007 is not determinable until the contracts mature, the above price per share amounts exclude the remaining shares to be received subject to the agreements. During 2007, we expended approximately $150.0 million on open market purchases and repurchased 3,720,800 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $40.31 and, during 2006, we expended approximately $159.8 million on open market purchases and repurchased 5,193,410 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $30.77. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangement Contractual Obligations We have certain contractual obligations that are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items, such as operating lease obligations, are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, but are required to be disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2007 and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements (in thousands): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 204,231 $ 39,968 $ 65,167 $ 45,725 $ 53,371 Synthetic lease obligations 3,005 2,301 704 Purchase obligations (1) 11,100 11,100 Total contractual obligations (2) $ 218,336 $ 53,369 $ 65,871 $ 45,725 $ 53,371 (1) Purchase obligations represent non cancelable commitments to purchase inventory ordered before year end. (2) Total contractual obligations do not include agreements where our commitment is variable in nature or where cancellations without payment provisions exist and excludes $27.3 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions recorded in accordance with FIN No. 48, because we could not make reasonably reliable estimates of the period or amount of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for further information. As of December 31, 2007, we did not have any individually material capital lease obligations or other material long term commitments reflected on our consolidated balance sheets. Off Balance Sheet Arrangement During 2002, we became a party to a synthetic lease arrangement totaling approximately $61.0 million for our corporate headquarters office space in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The synthetic lease represents a form of off balance sheet financing under which an unrelated third party lessor funded 100% of the costs of acquiring the property and leases the asset to us. The synthetic lease qualifies as an operating lease for accounting purposes and as a financing lease for tax purposes. We do not include the property as an asset or the lease debt as a liability on our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Consequently, payments made pursuant to the lease are recorded as operating expenses in our consolidated statements of income. We entered into the synthetic lease in order to lease our headquarters properties under more favorable terms than under our previous lease arrangements. We do not materially rely on off balance sheet arrangements for our liquidity or as capital resources. For information regarding cash outflows associated with our lease payments see Contractual Obligations. The initial term of the synthetic lease is seven years. Upon approval by the lessor, we can renew the lease twice for additional two year periods. The lease payments vary based on LIBOR, plus a margin. At any time during the lease term, we have the option to sublease the property and upon thirty days written notice, we have the option to purchase the property for an amount representing the original property cost and transaction fees of approximately $61.0 million plus any lease breakage costs and outstanding amounts owed. Upon at least 180 days notice prior to the termination of the initial lease term, we have the option to remarket the property for sale to a third party. If we choose not to purchase the property at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a residual value to the lessor of approximately $51.9 million and possession of the buildings will be returned to the lessor. On a periodic basis, we evaluate the property for indications of permanent impairment. If an evaluation were to indicate that the fair value of the property were to decline below $51.9 million, we would be responsible for the difference under our residual value guarantee, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 43 Table of Contents The synthetic lease includes certain financial covenants including a requirement for us to maintain a restricted cash, cash equivalent or investment balance of approximately $62.8 million as collateral, which is classified as restricted cash equivalents and investments in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. We maintain the ability to manage the composition of restricted investments within certain limits and to withdraw and use excess investment earnings from the pledged collateral for operating purposes. Additionally, we must maintain a minimum net cash and investment balance of $100.0 million, excluding our collateralized investments, equity investments and outstanding debt as of the end of each fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $696.9 million in cash and investments in excess of this required level. The synthetic lease includes non financial covenants, including the maintenance of the property and adequate insurance, prompt delivery of financial statements to the administrative agent of the lessor and prompt payment of taxes associated with the property. As of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all material provisions of the arrangement. In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, which addresses the consolidation of variable interest entities in which an enterprise absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses, receives a majority of the entitys expected residual returns, or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the entity. In December 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46 (revised), which replaced FIN No. 46. FIN No. 46 (revised) was effective immediately for certain disclosure requirements and variable interest entities referred to as special purpose entities for periods ending after December 15, 2003 and for other types of entities for financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004. We determined that we are not required to consolidate the lessor, the leased facility or the related debt associated with our synthetic lease in accordance with FIN No. 46 (revised). Accordingly, there was no impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows from adoption. However, if the lessor were to change its ownership of the property or significantly change its ownership of other properties that it currently holds, we could be required to consolidate the entity, the leased facility and the associated debt in a future period. Commitments Capital expenditures were $85.9 million during 2007, $52.1 million during 2006 and $26.4 million during 2005. During 2007, capital expenditures were primarily related to application and infrastructure delivery to enable growth and enhance management reporting capabilities and leasehold improvements. During 2006, capital expenditures were primarily related to the implementation of certain systems to streamline business operations and enhance management reporting capabilities and leasehold improvements. During 2002 and 2001, we took actions to consolidate certain of our offices, including the exit of certain leased office space and the abandonment of certain leasehold improvements. During the third quarter of 2006, we entered into an agreement, which assigned the operating lease and all remaining liability related to one of the closed offices to a third party. Lease obligations related to the remaining existing operating lease continue to 2018 with a total remaining obligation at December 31, 2007 of approximately $8.3 million, of which $1.3 million was accrued as of December 31, 2007, and is reflected in accrued expenses and other liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. In calculating this accrual, we made estimates, based on market information, including the estimated vacancy periods and sublease rates and opportunities. We periodically re evaluate our estimates; and if actual circumstances prove to be materially worse than management has estimated, the total charges for these vacant facilities could be significantly higher. Because virtually all holders of stock options granted by us were not involved in or aware of the incorrect pricing of certain options, we have taken and intend to take further actions to address certain adverse tax consequences that may be incurred by the holders of such incorrectly priced options. The primary adverse tax consequence is that the re measured options vesting after December 31, 2004 subject the option holder to a penalty tax under Section 409A of the IRC (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state laws). As a result during 2007, we recorded $3.4 million, net of income tax benefits, in liabilities related to the anticipated payment by us of payroll and excise taxes on behalf of our employees for options that were exercised during open tax years under the related statutes. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following discussion about our market risk includes forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements. The analysis methods we used to assess and mitigate risk discussed below should not be considered projections of future events, gains or losses. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. To mitigate foreign currency risk, we utilize derivative financial instruments. The counterparties to our derivative instruments are major financial institutions. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of December 31, 2007. Actual results could differ materially. Discussions of our accounting policies for derivatives and hedging activities are included in Notes 2 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. 44 Table of Contents Exposure to Exchange Rates A substantial majority of our overseas expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in local currencies, including Euros, British pounds sterling, Australian dollars, Swiss francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Singapore dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish krone and Swedish krona. To reduce our exposure to a reduction in U.S. dollar value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we have established a hedging program. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency expenditures. Our hedging program significantly reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had in place foreign currency forward sale contracts with a notional amount of $104.3 million and $56.0 million, respectively, and foreign currency forward purchase contracts with a notional amount of $311.1 million and $220.0 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007, these contracts had an aggregate fair asset value of $5.8 million and at December 31, 2006, these contracts had an aggregate fair liability value of $4.6 million. Based on a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2007 market rates, the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts would decrease the asset by $21.2 million, resulting in a net liability position. Conversely, a hypothetical 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2007 market rates would increase the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts by $21.1 million. In these hypothetical movements, foreign operating costs would move in the opposite direction. This calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates quantified above, changes in exchange rates could also change the dollar value of sales and affect the volume of sales as our competitors products become more or less attractive. We do not anticipate any material adverse impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as a result of these foreign exchange forward contracts. Exposure to Interest Rates We have interest rate exposures resulting from our interest based available for sale securities. We maintain available for sale investments in debt securities and we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer or type of instrument. The securities in our investment portfolio are not leveraged. The securities classified as available for sale are subject to interest rate risk. The modeling technique used measures the change in fair values arising from an immediate hypothetical shift in market interest rates and assumes that ending fair values include principal plus accrued interest and reinvestment income. If market interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points from December 31, 2007 and 2006 levels, the fair value of the available for sale portfolio would decline by approximately $3.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively. If market interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points from December 31, 2007 and 2006 levels, the fair value of the available for sale portfolio would increase by approximately $3.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively. These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate movements on our available for sale investment portfolios. This analysis does not consider the effect of credit risk as a result of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. During 2005, we entered into the Credit Facility, as amended in 2006, or the Amended Credit Facility. Accordingly, we could be exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our long term debt. This exposure relates to our $100.0 million Amended Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Amended Credit Facility currently bear interest at variable rates based on LIBOR plus 0.32% and adjusts in the future in the range of 0.32% to 0.80% above LIBOR based on our level of total debt and our adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA. A hypothetical 1% interest rate change would not have any current impact on our results of operations as we had no amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Facility as of December 31, 2007. In April 2002, we entered into a synthetic lease with a substantive lessor totaling approximately $61.0 million related to office space utilized for our corporate headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Payments under this synthetic lease are indexed to a variable interest rate (LIBOR plus a margin). Based upon our interest rate exposure under this synthetic lease at December 31, 2007, a 100 basis point change in the current interest rate would have an immaterial effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition to interest rate exposure, if the fair value of our headquarters property, under this synthetic lease, were to significantly decline, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview We design, develop and market technology solutions that allow applications to be delivered, supported and shared on demand with high performance, enhanced security and improved total cost of ownership, or TCO. We market and license our products through multiple channels such as value added resellers, channel distributors, system integrators, independent software vendors, our Websites and original equipment manufacturers. 2007 Acquisitions Ardence Delaware Inc. On January 5, 2007, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Ardence Delaware Inc. or the Ardence Acquisition, a leading provider of solutions that allow information technology administrators to set up and configure PCs, servers, and Web servers in real time from a centrally managed source. The Ardence Acquisition strengthens our application delivery capabilities with more robust streaming and provisioning technologies and increased security and reliability. The total consideration for the Ardence Acquisition was $51.7 million comprised of cash paid of $50.3 million and acquisition related costs of approximately $1.4 million. As part of the Ardence Acquisition, we assumed approximately 0.1 million non vested stock based awards and approximately 0.1 million stock option upon the closing of the transaction. The sources of funds for consideration paid in the transaction consisted of available cash and investments. Xensource, Inc. On October 19, 2007, we completed our acquisition of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of XenSource, Inc., or the XenSource Acquisition, a privately held leader in enterprise grade virtual infrastructure solutions. The acquisition positions us in adjacent server and desktop virtualization markets that will allow us to extend our leadership in the broader Application Delivery Infrastructure market by adding key enabling technologies that make the end to end computing environment more flexible, dynamic and responsive to business change. The total consideration for the XenSource Acquisition was approximately $328.5 million, comprised of approximately 7.1 million shares of our common stock valued at $232.3 million, $92.5 million in cash and approximately $3.7 million in direct transaction costs. In addition, in connection with the XenSource Acquisition we issued approximately 1.3 million unvested shares of our common stock and assumed approximately 3.3 million stock options each of which will be exercisable for the right to receive one share of our common stock upon vesting. The sources of funds for cash consideration paid in the transaction consisted of available cash and investments. The Sevin Rosen funds, a venture capital firm, was a stockholder in XenSource. Stephen Dow, a member of our Board of Directors, is a general partner of the Sevin Rosen funds and did not directly hold any interest in XenSource. Although the Sevin Rosen funds were represented on the Board of Directors of XenSource, Mr. Dow was not a director of XenSource. Our acquisition of XenSource, provided a return to all the partners of the Sevin Rosen funds, including Mr. Dow. Subject to certain assumptions, we estimate that the allocation to Mr. Dow through the general partner entities of the Sevin Rosen funds related to the acquisition of XenSource will be approximately $1.9 million, if and when the Sevin Rosen funds distribute such allocations to its general partner entities. Mr. Dow has been on our Board of Directors since 1989 and currently owns 278,564 shares of our common stock. Mr. Dow did not attend the meeting at which our Board approved the transaction and recused himself from the vote to approve the transaction. Consistent with our policies and the charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, the acquisition of XenSource was reviewed and approved by the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. 27 Table of Contents There were no material relationships among us and XenSource or any of their respective affiliates or any of the parties to the agreement to acquire XenSource and related agreements, other than in respect of such agreements themselves and as disclosed in this Annual Report on form 10 K . Revenues from the products acquired in the Ardence Acquisition and the XenSource Acquisition, or together, the 2007 Acquisitions, are primarily included in our Product License revenue. The 2007 Acquisitions results of operations have been included in our consolidated results of operations beginning after the date of the respective acquisitions. Purchase Accounting for the 2007 Acquisitions Under the purchase method of accounting, the purchase prices for the 2007 Acquisitions were allocated to the acquired companies net tangible and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of the date of the completion of the acquisitions. The allocation of the total purchase prices are summarized below (in thousands): Ardence XenSource Purchase PriceAllocation AssetLife Purchase PriceAllocation AssetLife Current assets $ 6,326 $ 19,177 Property and equipment 917 Various 1,224 Various In process research and development 1,200 8,600 Other assets 112 Intangible assets 22,160 1 7 years 146,440 2 8 years Goodwill 43,187 Indefinite 214,299 Indefinite Assets acquired 73,790 389,852 Current liabilities assumed (10,851 ) (4,179 ) Long term liabilities assumed (2,673 ) Deferred tax liabilities, non current (8,577 ) (57,214 ) Net assets acquired, including direct transaction costs $ 51,689 $ 328,459 Current assets acquired in connection with the Ardence Acquisition consisted mainly of accounts receivable and current assets acquired in connection with the XenSource Acquisition consisted mainly of short term deferred tax assets and to a lesser extent, accounts receivable. Current liabilities acquired in the acquisition of Ardence consisted primarily of short term debt and other accrued expenses and current liabilities acquired in the XenSource Acquisition consisted primarily of other accrued expenses. Long term liabilities acquired in the Ardence Acquisition consisted primarily of facilities related costs. Of the goodwill related to the 2007 Acquisitions, approximately $184.5 million was assigned to our Americas segment, approximately $62.0 was assigned to our Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, segment and approximately $11.0 million was assigned to our Asia Pacific segment. The goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. Please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. 2006 Acquisitions During 2006, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of two privately held companies, Reflectent Software, Inc., a provider of solutions to monitor the real time performance of client server, Web and desktop applications from an end user perspective, and Orbital Data Corporation, a provider of solutions that optimize the delivery of applications over wide area networks, together the 2006 Acquisitions. The 2006 Acquisitions strengthen our Citrix Delivery Center products which are designed to offer comprehensive solutions across all dimensions of application delivery. The total consideration for the 2006 Acquisitions was $68.0 million comprised of cash paid of $65.1 million and other costs related primarily to direct transaction costs of $2.9 million. As part of the 2006 Acquisitions, we assumed approximately 0.4 million non vested stock based awards upon the closing of the transaction. The sources of funds for consideration paid in these transactions consisted of available cash and investments. In connection with the 2006 Acquisitions, we allocated $43.7 million to goodwill, $17.3 million to core and product technology and $3.6 million to other intangible assets. We assigned all of the goodwill to our Americas segment 2005 Acquisitions During 2005, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of two privately held companies, NetScaler, Inc. and Teros, Inc., or together, the 2005 Acquisitions, for a total of $172.8 million in cash, 6.6 million shares of our common stock valued at $154.8 million and estimated direct transaction costs of $6.2 million. We also assumed approximately $20.6 million in non vested stock based compensation upon the closing of the NetScaler, Inc., or NetScaler, transaction that was accounted for in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 44, Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation (an Interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25) and was recorded as deferred compensation in the accompanying 2005 consolidated 28 Table of Contents balance sheet. The assumed awards had an excess of fair value over intrinsic value of $0.5 million, which is reflected in the total consideration for the transaction. The 2005 Acquisitions further extended our Citrix Delivery Center products, which is designed to offer comprehensive solutions across all dimensions of application delivery. The results of operations of the acquired companies are included as part of our results beginning after their respective dates of acquisition and revenues from the acquired products are included in our Product License revenue and Technical Services revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. In connection with the 2005 Acquisitions, we allocated $230.0 million to goodwill, $40.2 million to core technology and $35.8 million to other intangible assets. We assigned all of the goodwill to our Americas segment. In process Research and Development for Acquisitions The fair values used in determining the purchase price allocation for certain intangible assets for our acquisitions were based on estimated discounted future cash flows, royalty rates and historical data, among other information. Purchased in process research and development, or IPR&D, was expensed immediately upon the closing of our 2007 Acquisitions in the amount of $9.8 million, our 2006 Acquisitions in the amount of $1.0 million and our 2005 Acquisitions in the amount of $7.0 million, in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, due to the fact that it pertained to technology that was not currently technologically feasible, meaning it had not reached the working model stage, did not contain all of the major functions planned for the product, was not ready for initial customer testing and had no alternative future use. The fair value assigned to in process research and development was determined using the income approach, which includes estimating the revenue and expenses associated with a projects sales cycle and by estimating the amount of after tax cash flows attributable to the projects. The future cash flows were discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return, which ranged from 19%36%. The rate of return included a factor that takes into account the uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the IPR&D. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent liabilities. We base these estimates on our historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, and these estimates form the basis for our judgments concerning the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We periodically evaluate these estimates and judgments based on available information and experience. Actual results could differ from our estimates under different assumptions and conditions. If actual results significantly differ from our estimates, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially impacted. We believe that the accounting policies described below are critical to understanding our business, results of operations and financial condition because they involve more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. We have discussed the development, selection and application of our critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and our independent auditors, and our Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosure relating to our critical accounting policies and estimates in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition The accounting related to revenue recognition in the software industry is complex and affected by interpretations of the rules and an understanding of industry practices, both of which are subject to change. As a result, revenue recognition accounting rules require us to make significant judgments. In addition, our judgment is required in assessing the probability of collection, which is generally based on evaluation of customer specific information, historical collection experience and economic market conditions. If market conditions decline, or if the financial condition of our distributors or customers deteriorate, we may be unable to determine that collectability is probable, and we could be required to defer the recognition of revenue until we receive customer payments. We license most of our products bundled with a one year contract for license updates that provide the end user with free enhancements and upgrades to the licensed product on a when and if available basis. Customers may also elect to purchase subscriptions for license updates, when not bundled with the initial product release or purchase, technical support, product training or consulting services. We allocate revenue to license updates and any other undelivered elements of the arrangement 29 Table of Contents based on vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value of each element and such amounts are deferred until the applicable delivery criteria and other revenue recognition criteria have been met. The balance of the revenue, net of any discounts inherent in the arrangement, is recognized at the outset of the arrangement using the residual method as the product licenses are delivered. If we cannot objectively determine the fair value of each undelivered element based on the VSOE fair value, we defer revenue recognition until all elements are delivered, all services have been performed, or until fair value can be objectively determined. We must apply judgment in determining all elements of the arrangement and in determining the VSOE of fair value for each element, considering the price charged for each product or applicable renewal rates for license updates. In the normal course of business, we are not obligated to accept product returns from our distributors under any other conditions, unless the product item is defective in manufacture, but we do provide most of our distributors with stock balancing and price protection rights. Stock balancing rights permit distributors to return products to us up to the forty fifth day of the fiscal quarter, subject to ordering an equal dollar amount of our other products prior to the last day of the same fiscal quarter. Price protection rights require that we grant retroactive price adjustments for inventories of our products held by distributors or resellers if we lower our prices for such products. Product items returned to us under the stock balancing program must be in new, unused and unopened condition. We establish provisions for estimated returns for stock balancing and price protection rights, as well as other sales allowances, concurrently with the recognition of revenue. The provisions are established based upon consideration of a variety of factors, including, among other things, recent and historical return rates for both specific products and distributors, estimated distributor inventory levels by product, the impact of any new product releases and projected economic conditions. Actual product returns for stock balancing and price protection provisions incurred are, however, dependent upon future events, including the amount of stock balancing activity by our distributors and the level of distributor inventories at the time of any price adjustments. We continually monitor the factors that influence the pricing of our products and distributor inventory levels and make adjustments to these provisions when we believe actual returns and other allowances could differ from established reserves. Our ability to recognize revenue upon shipment to our distributors is predicated on our ability to reliably estimate future stock balancing returns. If actual experience or changes in market condition impairs our ability to estimate returns, we would be required to defer the recognition of revenue until the delivery of the product to the end user. Allowances for estimated product returns amounted to approximately $1.7 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. We have not reduced and have no current plans to reduce our prices for inventory currently held by distributors or resellers. Accordingly, there were no reserves required for price protection at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006. We also record reductions to revenue for customer programs and incentive offerings including volume based incentives, at the time the sale is recorded. If market conditions were to decline, we could take actions to increase our customer incentive offerings, which could result in an incremental reduction to our revenue at the time the incentive is offered. Stock Based Compensation We adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, Share Based Payment on January 1, 2006, the effective date for such adoption. Prior to January 1, 2006, we accounted for our stock based compensation plans under the recognition and measurement provisions of Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and related Interpretations, as permitted by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. We did not recognize compensation cost related to stock options granted to our employees and non employee directors that had an exercise price equal to or above the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant in our consolidated statement of income prior to January 1, 2006. We elected to adopt SFAS No. 123R using the modified prospective method, under which compensation cost, based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123R, is recognized beginning with the effective date for all stock based awards granted to employees after the effective date and prior to the effective date that remain unvested as of the effective date. In addition, under the modified prospective method prior periods are not revised for comparative purposes. Under the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123R, stock based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as expense over the requisite service or performance period, which is the vesting period. We currently use the Black Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options. The determination of the fair value of stock based payment awards on the date of grant using an option pricing model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, the expected term of the award, the risk free interest rate and any expected dividends. For purposes of determining the expected volatility factor, we considered the implied volatility in two year market traded options on our common stock based on third party volatility quotes in accordance with the provisions of Staff Accounting Bulletin, or SAB, No. 107. Our decision to use implied volatility was based upon the availability of actively traded options on our common stock and our assessment that implied volatility is more representative of future stock price trends than historical volatility. The expected term of our options is based on historical employee exercise patterns. We also analyzed our historical pattern of option exercises based on certain demographic characteristics and we determined that there were no meaningful differences in option exercise activity based on demographic characteristics. The approximate risk free interest rate is based on the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero coupon issues with remaining terms equivalent to the expected term on our options. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and, accordingly, we used a dividend yield of zero in the 30 Table of Contents option pricing model. We are required to estimate forfeitures at the time of grant and revise those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We use historical data to estimate pre vesting option forfeitures and record stock based compensation expense only for those awards that are expected to vest. All stock based payment awards that vest based on service, including those with graded vesting schedules, are amortized on a straight line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which are generally the vesting periods. Beginning in 2006, we began issuing non vested stock units and non vested stock with performance goals to certain senior members of management. The number of non vested stock units or non vested stock underlying each award may be determined based on a range of attainment within defined performance goals. We are required to estimate the attainment that will be achieved related to the defined performance goals and number of non vested stock units or non vested stock that will ultimately be awarded in order to recognize compensation expense over the vesting period. If our initial estimates of performance goal attainment change, the related expense may fluctuate from quarter to quarter based on those estimates and if the performance goals are not met, no compensation cost will be recognized and any previously recognized compensation cost will be reversed. As of December 31, 2007, there was $217.7 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to options, non vested stock and non vested stock units. That cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2.38 years. If factors change and we employ different assumptions for estimating stock based compensation expense in future periods or if we decide to use a different valuation model, the stock based compensation expense we recognize in future periods may differ significantly from what we have recorded in the current period and could materially affect our operating income, net income and earnings per share. This may result in a lack of consistency in future periods and materially affect the fair value estimate of stock based payments. It may also result in a lack of comparability with other companies that use different models, methods and assumptions. The Black Scholes option pricing model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. These characteristics are not present in our option grants. Existing valuation models, including the Black Scholes and lattice binomial models, may not provide reliable measures of the fair values of our stock based compensation. Consequently, there is a risk that our estimates of the fair values of our stock based compensation awards on the grant dates may bear little resemblance to the actual values realized upon the exercise, expiration, early termination or forfeiture of those stock based payments in the future. Certain stock based payments, such as employee stock options, may expire with little or no intrinsic value compared to the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. Alternatively, the value realized from these instruments may be significantly higher than the fair values originally estimated on the grant date and reported in our financial statements. There is currently no market based mechanism or other practical application to verify the reliability and accuracy of the estimates stemming from these valuation models, nor is there a means to compare and adjust the estimates to actual values. The guidance in SFAS No. 123R and SAB No. 107 is relatively new from an application perspective and the application of these principles may be subject to further interpretation and refinement over time. See Notes 2 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for further information regarding our adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Core and Product Technology Assets We have acquired our core and product technology assets from our business combinations and other third party agreements. In applying purchase accounting, we allocate a portion of purchase price of acquired companies to the core and product technology assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. We typically engage third party appraisal firms to assist us in determining the fair values of core and product technology assets acquired. Such valuations require us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates are based on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Critical estimates in determining the fair value of the core and product technology assets include but are not limited to future expected cash flows earned from the core and product technology and discount rates applied in determining the present value of those cash flows. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. We review acquired core and product technology assets for impairment on a periodic basis by comparing the estimated net realizable value to the unamortized cost of the technology. The recoverability of these technologies is primarily dependent upon our ability to commercialize products utilizing these technologies. The estimated net realizable value of the purchased technology is based on the estimated undiscounted future cash flows derived from such technology. Our assumptions about future revenues and expenses require significant judgment associated with the forecast of the performance of our products. Actual revenues and costs could vary significantly from these forecasted amounts. As of December 31, 2007, the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from core and product technology assets from these acquisitions is sufficient to recover their carrying value. If these products are not ultimately accepted by our customers and distributors, and there is no alternative future use for the technology, we could determine that some or all of their remaining $177.3 million carrying value is impaired. In the event of impairment, we would record an impairment charge to earnings that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Goodwill At December 31, 2007, we had $888.5 million in goodwill primarily related to our acquisitions. The goodwill recorded in relation to these acquisitions is not deductible for tax purposes. We operate in a single industry segment consisting of the design, 31 Table of Contents development and marketing of technology solutions that deliver applications on demand. Our revenues are derived from sales of our Citrix Delivery Center products and related technical services in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific regions and from online services sold by our Online Services division. These three geographic regions and the Online Services division constitute our reportable segments. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for additional information regarding our reportable segments. We evaluate goodwill along these segments, which represent our reporting units. Substantially all of our goodwill at December 31, 2007 was associated with our Americas and Online Services division reportable segments. Excluding goodwill, we have no intangible assets deemed to have indefinite lives. We use judgment in assessing goodwill for impairment. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually, or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could exceed fair value. Fair values are based on discounted cash flows using a discount rate determined by our management to be consistent with industry discount rates and the risks inherent in our current business model. In accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, we completed the required annual impairment tests of goodwill as of December 31, 2007. There were no impairment charges recorded as a result of our annual impairment tests. Due to uncertain market conditions and potential changes in our strategy, product portfolio or reportable segments, it is possible that the forecasts we use to support our goodwill could change in the future, which could result in non cash charges that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Income Taxes We are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. At December 31, 2007, we had approximately $43.0 million in deferred tax assets. SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, requires a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets reported if, based on the weight of the evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We review deferred tax assets periodically for recoverability and make estimates and judgments regarding the expected geographic sources of taxable income and gains from investments, as well as tax planning strategies in assessing the need for a valuation allowance. At December 31, 2007, we determined that no valuation allowance was necessary to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. If the estimates and assumptions used in our determination change in the future, we could be required to revise our estimates of the valuation allowances against our deferred tax assets and adjust our provisions for additional income taxes. In the ordinary course of global business, there are transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain, thus judgment is required in determining the worldwide provision for income taxes. We provide for income taxes on transactions based on our estimate of the probable liability. We adjust our provision as appropriate for changes that impact our underlying judgments. Changes that impact provision estimates include such items as jurisdictional interpretations on tax filing positions based on the results of tax audits and general tax authority rulings. Due to the evolving nature of tax rules combined with the large number of jurisdictions in which we operate, it is possible that our estimates of our tax liability and the realizability of our deferred tax assets could change in the future, which may result in additional tax liabilities and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The following discussion relating to the individual financial statement captions, our overall financial performance, operations and financial position should be read in conjunction with the factors and events described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Risk Factors, which could impact our future performance and financial position. Stock Option Investigation and Related Matters On November 30, 2006, our Audit Committee commenced a voluntary, independent investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and related accounting during the period from January 1996 through December 2006. In addition to the grants management evaluated as part of the Audit Committees investigation, we also evaluated all grants (consisting of two employee new hire grants) in December 1995, which was the month we completed our initial public offering, and all grants to non employee directors. This voluntary investigation was not in response to any governmental investigation, stockholder lawsuit, whistleblower complaint or inquiries from media organizations. Our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2006, which was filed on September 7, 2007, contains a description of the Audit Committees investigation, managements related review, the conclusions of the Audit Committee and management and the restatement of our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders equity and comprehensive income and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, and each of the quarters in the 2006 and 2005 fiscal years, to reflect additional stock based compensation expense and related income tax effects for stock option awards granted since December 1995. Since the beginning of our stock option investigation on November 30, 2006, we have incurred approximately $12.3 million in professional fees in connection with the investigation. Of the $12.3 million in investigation related expenses, we incurred approximately $11.3 million during the year ended December 31, 2007. 32 Table of Contents Results of Operations Our operations consist of the design, development and marketing of technology solutions that deliver applications on demand with high performance, enhanced security and improved total cost of ownership, or TCO. We market and license our products through multiple channels such as value added resellers, channel distributors, system integrators, independent software vendors, our Websites and original equipment manufacturers. A substantial majority of our overseas operating expenses and capital purchasing activities are transacted in local currencies and are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to minimize the impact on our operating results, we generally initiate our hedging of currency exchange risks up to one year in advance of anticipated foreign currency expenses. When the dollar is weak, foreign currency denominated expenses will be higher; these higher expenses will be partially offset by the gain in our hedging contracts. If the dollar is strong, foreign currency denominated expenses will be lower, and our hedging practices will cause these lower expenses to be partially offset by the aggregate loss in our hedging contracts. There is a risk that there will be fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates beyond the one year timeframe for which we hedge our risk. Due to the generally weaker dollar during the year ended December 31, 2007, our operating expenses benefited from gains in our hedging programs as compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. Our cost of services revenues and operating expenses increased for 2006 when compared to 2005 due to the recognition of stock based compensation expense related to our adoption of SFAS No. 123R. In 2008, we anticipate that our stock based compensation expense will increase primarily due to awards assumed in conjunction with our XenSource Acquisition. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates and 2007 Acquisitions as well as Notes 2, 3 and 6 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for more information related to our adoption of SFAS No. 123R and our acquisitions. The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of income data and presentation of that data as a percentage of change from period to period. Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Revenues: Product licenses $ 577,144 $ 488,487 $ 409,435 18.1 % 19.3 % License updates 484,669 405,756 331,102 19.4 22.5 Online services 213,744 148,795 99,097 43.6 50.2 Technical services 116,385 91,281 69,088 27.5 32.1 Total net revenues 1,391,942 1,134,319 908,722 22.7 24.8 Cost of revenues: Cost of product license revenues 42,984 32,911 14,404 30.6 128.5 Cost of services revenues 65,027 46,585 26,929 39.6 73.0 Amortization of product related intangible assets 29,596 19,202 16,766 54.1 14.5 Total cost of revenues 137,607 98,698 58,099 39.4 69.9 Gross margin 1,254,335 1,035,621 850,623 21.1 21.7 Operating expenses: Research and development 205,103 155,331 108,751 32.0 42.8 Sales, marketing and support 590,409 480,343 394,153 22.9 21.9 General and administrative 229,229 178,669 125,425 28.3 42.5 Amortization of other intangible assets 17,387 16,934 11,622 2.7 45.7 In process research and development 9,800 1,000 7,000 * (85.7 ) Total operating expenses 1,051,928 832,277 646,951 26.4 28.6 Income from operations 202,407 203,344 203,672 (0.5 ) (0.2 ) Interest income 49,704 41,210 23,614 20.6 74.5 Interest expense (737 ) (927 ) (2,426 ) (20.5 ) (61.8 ) Other expense, net (466 ) (546 ) (506 ) (14.7 ) 7.9 Income before income taxes 250,908 243,081 224,354 3.2 8.3 Income taxes 36,425 60,084 58,745 (39.4 ) 2.3 Net income $ 214,483 $ 182,997 $ 165,609 17.2 10.5 * not meaningful. 33 Table of Contents Revenues Net revenues include the following categories: Product Licenses, License Updates, Online Services and Technical Services. Product Licenses primarily represent fees related to the licensing of the following products: Our Application Virtualization products, including XenApp (formerly Presentation Server) and Access Essentials; Our Application Networking products, including our NetScaler, Access Gateway and WANScaler products; Our Application Performance Monitoring products, including EdgeSight; and Our Server Virtualization products, including Provisioning Server (formerly Ardence) and XenServer, both acquired in our 2007 Acquisitions. In addition, we offer incentive programs to our channel distributors and value added resellers to stimulate demand for our products. Revenues associated with these programs are partially offset by these incentives to our channel distributors and value added resellers. Our Application Virtualization Product License revenue accounted for approximately 76.3% of our Product License revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007, 81.0% of our Product License revenue for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 93.2% of our Product License revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in our Application Virtualization Product License revenue as a percent of our total Product License revenue when comparing the year ended December 31, 2007 to the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily due to increased sales of our Application Networking products, including the full year impact of the addition of our WANScaler products, and to a lesser extent, the addition of our Provisioning Server products in 2007 and the full year impact of our EdgeSight products. During 2008, we expect our Application Virtualization Product License revenue to continue to decrease as a percent of our total Product License revenue primarily due to expected increases in sales of our newly acquired XenServer product and our Application Networking products. License Updates consist of fees related to our Subscription Advantage program that are recognized ratably over the term of the contract, which is typically 12 to 24 months. Subscription Advantage is an annual renewable program that provides subscribers with automatic delivery of software upgrades, enhancements and maintenance releases when and if they become available during the term of the subscription. We anticipate that Subscription Advantage will continue to be of strategic importance to our business throughout 2008 because it fosters long term customer relationships and gives us improved visibility and predictability due to the recurring nature of this revenue stream. Online Services revenues consist primarily of fees related to online service agreements and are recognized ratably over the contract term. Technical Services revenues are comprised of fees from technical support services which are recognized ratably over the contract term, as well as revenues from product training and certification, and consulting services revenue related to implementation of our products, which is recognized as the services are provided. Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Revenues: Product licenses $ 577,144 $ 488,487 $ 409,435 $ 88,657 $ 79,052 License updates 484,669 405,756 331,102 78,913 74,654 Online services 213,744 148,795 99,097 64,949 49,698 Technical services 116,385 91,281 69,088 25,104 22,193 Total net revenues $ 1,391,942 $ 1,134,319 $ 908,722 $ 257,623 $ 225,597 Product Licenses Product License revenue increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 primarily due to increased sales of our Application Virtualization and Application Networking products and, to a lesser extent due to sales of our Provisioning Server products acquired in 2007. Product License revenue increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to the full year impact and increased sales of our Application Networking products and, to a lesser extent, increased sales of our Application Virtualization products. We currently anticipate that our Application Virtualization Product License revenue will be flat to slightly down when comparing the first quarter of 2008 to the fourth quarter of 2007; however, for fiscal year 2008, we expect Product License revenue to increase overall primarily due to growth from our Application Virtualization products, expected growth from sales of our newly acquired XenSource products, and to a lesser extent, increased sales of our Application Networking products. 34 Table of Contents License Updates License Updates revenue increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 and increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to a larger base of subscribers and increasing renewals related to our Subscription Advantage program. We also currently anticipate that License Updates revenue will continue to increase in 2008 due primarily to increased renewals and continued growth in our installed customer base. Online Services Online Services revenue increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 primarily due to increased sales of our real time application collaboration products. Online Services revenue increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to increased customer adoptions and renewals of our Online Services products. We currently expect Online Services revenues to continue to increase in 2008 but at a slower rate than experienced when comparing 2007 to 2006. Technical Services Technical Services revenue increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 primarily due to increased sales of support services related to our Application Networking products and to a lesser extent an increase in sales of support and services related to the implementation of our Application Virtualization products. Technical Services revenue increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to the full year impact and increased sales of support and services related to our Application Networking products and an increase in sales of services and support related to the implementation of our Application Virtualization products. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenues are primarily comprised of License Updates revenue from our Subscription Advantage product, Online Services revenues from annual service agreements for our online services products and Technical Services revenues related to our support services and consulting contracts. Deferred revenues increased approximately $86.4 million as of December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 primarily due to increased renewals of our Subscription Advantage product, increased new sales of our Subscription Advantage product, increased sales of our online service agreements and, to a lesser extent, sales of services related to our Application Networking products. We currently expect deferred revenue to continue to increase in 2008. We do not believe that backlog, as of any particular date, is a reliable indicator of future performance. While it is generally our practice to promptly ship our products upon receipt of properly finalized purchase orders, we sometimes have product license orders that have not shipped or have otherwise not met all the required criteria for revenue recognition. Although the amount of such product license orders may vary, the amount, if any, of such product license orders at the end of a particular period has not been material to total revenue at the end of the same period. International Revenues International revenues (sales outside the United States) accounted for approximately 44.5% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, 47.4% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 and 50.0% for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in international revenue as a percent of net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the year ended December 31, 2006 is primarily due to increased sales performance and growth in our Online Services products, which are currently primarily comprised of domestic revenues, and increased performance in the United States across most product offerings. For detailed information on international revenues, please refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Segment Revenues An analysis of our reportable segment net revenue is presented below: Year Ended December 31, RevenueGrowth2006 to 2007 RevenueGrowth2005 to 2006 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Americas (1) $ 614,181 $ 499,278 $ 397,233 23.0 % 25.7 % EMEA (2) 447,201 391,650 334,900 14.2 16.9 Asia Pacific 116,816 94,596 77,492 23.5 22.1 Online Services division 213,744 148,795 99,097 43.6 50.2 Consolidated net revenues $ 1,391,942 $ 1,134,319 $ 908,722 22.7 24.8 (1) Our Americas segment is comprised of the United States, Canada and Latin America. (2) Defined as Europe, Middle East and Africa. 35 Table of Contents With respect to our segment revenues, the increase in net revenues for the comparative periods presented was due primarily to the factors previously discussed across our reportable segments. For additional information on our segment revenues, please refer to Note 12 of our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Cost of Revenues Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Cost of product license revenues $ 42,984 $ 32,911 $ 14,404 $ 10,073 $ 18,507 Cost of services revenues 65,027 46,585 26,929 18,442 19,656 Amortization of product related intangible assets 29,596 19,202 16,766 10,394 2,436 Total cost of revenues $ 137,607 $ 98,698 $ 58,099 $ 38,909 $ 40,599 Cost of product license revenues consists primarily of hardware, product media and duplication, manuals, packaging materials, shipping expense, server capacity costs and royalties. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of compensation and other personnel related costs of providing technical support and consulting, as well as the costs related to our Online Services products. Also included in cost of revenues is amortization of product related intangible assets. Cost of product licenses revenues increased during 2007 when compared to 2006 primarily due to increased sales of our Application Networking products which contain hardware components that have a higher cost than our other software products. Cost of services revenues increased during 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to increases in sales of our Online Services products and an increase in support related to our Application Virtualization and Application Networking products. Amortization of product related intangible assets increased during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to amortization of product related intangible assets acquired in acquisitions. For more information regarding our acquisitions, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. We currently anticipate that in 2008, cost of product license revenues will continue to increase as compared to current levels as we currently expect sales of our Application Networking products, which have a hardware component, to increase. In addition, in 2008, we currently expect our cost of services revenues to increase due to increased sales of our Online Services products and an increase in technical support costs and increased sales of services as we grow our customer base, have more frequent product releases and more complex products. Cost of product licenses revenues increased during 2006 when compared to 2005 primarily due to increased sales and the full year impact of the acquisition of our Application Networking products which contain hardware components that have a higher cost than our other software products. Cost of services revenues increased during 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in support and increased sales of our educational and consulting services related to our Application Virtualization products, increases in sales of our Online Services products, the full year impact and increased sales of support and educational services related to our Application Networking products and the impact of stock based compensation expenses related to our adoption of SFAS No 123R. Amortization of product related intangible assets increased during 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to amortization of product related intangible assets acquired in acquisitions. Gross Margin Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 90.1% for 2007, 91.3% for 2006 and 93.6% for 2005. The decrease in gross margin as a percentage of net revenue for all periods presented was primarily due to the increase in cost of revenues as discussed above. We currently expect that our gross margin will continue to trend slightly downwards in 2008 due to the factors discussed above under Cost of Revenues. 36 Table of Contents Research and Development Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Research and development $ 205,103 $ 155,331 $ 108,751 $ 49,772 $ 46,580 Research and development expenses consisted primarily of personnel related costs. We expensed substantially all development costs included in the research and development of our products and new functionality added to our existing products as incurred, except for certain core technologies with alternative future uses. Research and development expenses increased during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in staffing and related personnel costs due to the full year impact of our 2006 Acquisitions, our 2007 Acquisitions and continued investments in our business, which included the hiring of personnel. We expect research and development expenses to increase in 2008 due to the full year impact of the XenSource Acquisition and continued investments in our business including the hiring of personnel. For more information regarding our acquisitions see, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Research and development expenses increased during 2006 as compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in staffing and related personnel costs due to the full year impact of our 2005 Acquisitions, our 2006 Acquisitions, continued investments in our business including the hiring of personnel, and additional compensation expense related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Sales, Marketing and Support Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Sales, marketing and support $ 590,409 $ 480,343 $ 394,153 $ 110,066 $ 86,190 Sales, marketing and support expenses consisted primarily of personnel related costs, including sales commissions, and the costs of marketing programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows, public relations and other market development programs. Sales, marketing and support expenses increased during 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in headcount and the associated increase in salaries and employee related expenses due to our continued investment in our business and the full year impact of our 2006 Acquisitions and the impact of our 2007 Acquisitions. In addition, sales, marketing and support expenses increased during 2007 compared to 2006 due to an increase in commissions related to our growing sales force and payments made under new programs adopted to promote sales of our newer products, an increase in commissions paid to our resellers and, to a lesser extent, an increase in marketing program costs related to our worldwide advertising campaigns. During 2007, we also increased our utilization of personnel for revenue generating activities, which is reflected as cost of service revenues rather than sales, marketing and support expenses. In 2008, we currently expect sales, marketing and support expenses to increase due to the full year impact of our XenSource Acquisition and increased compensation costs as we continue to make investments in our business and hire personnel. For more information regarding our acquisitions see, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Sales, marketing and support expenses increased during 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to an increase in headcount and the associated increase in salaries, commissions and other variable compensation and employee related expenses, the full year impact of our 2005 Acquisitions and the impact of our 2006 Acquisitions, additional compensation costs related to our adoption of SFAS No. 123R and an increase in marketing program costs related to our worldwide advertising campaigns. During 2006, we increased our utilization of personnel for revenue generating activities during 2006 as compared to 2005, which is reflected as cost of service revenues rather than sales, marketing and support expenses. General and Administrative Expenses Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) General and administrative $ 229,229 $ 178,669 $ 125,425 $ 50,560 $ 53,244 General and administrative expenses consisted primarily of personnel related related costs and expenses related to outside consultants assisting with regulatory compliance and information systems, as well as auditing and legal fees. General and 37 Table of Contents administrative expenses increased during 2007 compared to 2006 primarily due to an increase in headcount and the associated salaries and employee related expenses due to our continued investment in our business and systems to support our growth, the full year impact of our 2006 Acquisitions and the impact of our 2007 Acquisitions, an increase in expenses related to outside consultants assisting us with information systems and regulatory compliance, increases in auditing, consulting and legal fees primarily related to the investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and the associated restatements of our prior consolidated financial statements and, to a lesser extent, an increase in depreciation primarily related to information systems. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in 2008 primarily due to the full year impact of our XenSource Acquisition and continued investments to support our future growth. For more information regarding our acquisitions see, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. General and administrative expenses increased during 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to increases in auditing, consulting and legal fees which included costs related to the investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and the associated restatements of our prior consolidated financial statements, as well as additional compensation costs related to the adoption of SFAS No. 123R, an increase in headcount and the associated salaries and employee related expenses, and the full year impact of our 2005 Acquisitions and, to a lesser extent, the impact of our 2006 Acquisitions. Amortization of Other Intangible Assets Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Amortization of the other intangible assets $ 17,387 $ 16,934 $ 11,622 $ 453 $ 5,312 The increase in amortization of other intangible assets during 2007 as compared to 2006 was not significant. Amortization of other intangible assets increased during 2006 as compared to 2005 due to an increase in amortization expense related to certain finite intangible assets acquired in our acquisitions. As of December 31, 2007, we had unamortized other identified intangible assets with estimable useful lives in the net amount of $99.0 million. We currently expect amortization expense to increase during 2008 as a result of our acquisitions. For more information regarding our acquisitions see, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. In Process Research and Development Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) In process research and development $ 9,800 $ 1,000 $ 7,000 $ 8,800 $ (6,000 ) In 2007, $9.8 million of the purchase price paid for our 2007 Acquisitions was allocated to IPR&D, in 2006, $1.0 million of the purchase price paid for our 2006 Acquisitions was allocated to IPR&D, and in 2005, $7.0 million of the purchase price paid for our 2005 Acquisitions was allocated to IPR&D. The amounts allocated to IPR&D in our acquisitions had not yet reached technological feasibility, had no alternative future use and were written off at the date of the acquisitions in accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method. For more information regarding the acquisitions, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our efforts with respect to the acquired technologies currently consist of design and development that may be required to support the release of the technologies into updated versions of existing service offerings and potentially new product and service offerings related to the products acquired in our XenSource, Ardence, and NetScaler Acquisitions. We currently expect that we will successfully develop new products or services utilizing the acquired in process technology, but there can be no assurance that commercial viability of future product or service offerings will be achieved. Furthermore, future developments in the software industry, changes in technology, changes in other products and offerings or other developments may cause us to alter or abandon product plans. Failure to complete the development of projects in their entirety, or in a timely manner, could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The fair value assigned to IPR&D was based on valuations prepared using methodologies and valuation techniques consistent with those used by independent appraisers. All fair values were determined using the income approach, which includes estimating the revenue and expenses associated with a projects sales cycle and by estimating the amount of after tax cash flows attributable 38 Table of Contents to the projects. The future cash flows were discounted to present value utilizing an appropriate risk adjusted rate of return, which ranged from 19% to 36%. The rate of return included a factor that takes into account the uncertainty surrounding the successful development of the IPR&D. Interest Income Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Interest income $ 49,704 $ 41,210 $ 23,614 $ 8,494 $ 17,596 Interest income increased during 2007 as compared to 2006 primarily due to overall higher average cash, cash equivalent and investment balances that resulted primarily from an increase in cash from operations and proceeds received from employee stock based compensation plans, partially offset by an increase in cash paid for acquisitions and capital expenditures. Interest income increased during 2006 as compared to 2005 due to higher interest rates earned on overall higher average cash, cash equivalent and investment balances that resulted primarily from increased proceeds received from employee stock based compensation plans, a decrease in cash spent for acquisitions and an increase in cash from operations, partially offset by increased spending on stock repurchases, an increase in net payments made on our debt and an increase in capital expenditures. For more information see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview and Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Interest Expense Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Interest expense $ (737 ) $ (927 ) $ (2,426 ) $ 190 $ 1,499 The decrease in interest expense during 2007 compared to 2006 is not significant. Interest expense decreased during 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the repayment of our term loan facility, or the Term Loan, in February 2006. For more information see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Other Expense, Net Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2006Compared to2005 2007 2006 2005 (In thousands) Other expense, net $ (466 ) $ (546 ) $ (506 ) $ 80 $ (40 ) Other expense, net is primarily comprised of remeasurement and foreign currency transaction gains (losses), other than temporary declines in the value of our equity investments and debt instruments and realized gains (losses) on the sale of available for sale investments. Other expense, net remained relatively flat when comparing 2007 to 2006 and when comparing 2006 to 2005. Income Taxes On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act, or the AJCA, was signed into law. The AJCA provided for an 85% dividends received deduction on dividend distributions of foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer, if certain conditions are met. During the second quarter of fiscal 2005, we completed our evaluation of the effects of the repatriation provision of the AJCA and our Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors approved our dividend reinvestment plan, or DRP, under the AJCA. During 2005, we repatriated approximately $503.0 million of certain foreign earnings, of which $500.0 million qualified for the 85% dividends received deduction. During 2005, we recorded an estimated tax provision of approximately $24.4 million related to the repatriation. Additionally, during 2005, we recorded the reversal of approximately $8.8 million for income taxes on certain foreign earnings for which a deferred tax liability had been previously recorded. 39 Table of Contents We maintain certain operational and administrative processes in overseas subsidiaries and its foreign earnings are taxed at lower foreign tax rates. Other than the one time repatriation provision under the AJCA described above, we do not expect to remit earnings from our foreign subsidiaries. We establish tax reserves when, despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable, certain of these positions may be challenged. While it is often difficult to predict whether we will prevail, we believe that our tax reserves reflect the probable outcome of known contingencies. As such, included in our effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 is the reduction of approximately $11.0 million in tax reserves related to the expiration of a statute of limitations for the 2003 tax year partially offset by an additional tax reserve of approximately $1.4 million related to uncertainties arising in 2007. In 2007, our effective tax rate decreased to approximately (3.5%) from 25.5% when comparing the three months ended December 31, 2007 to the three months ended December 31, 2006 and decreased to 14.5% from 24.7% when comparing the twelve months ended December 31, 2007 to the twelve months ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to the reduction in tax reserves for uncertain tax positions related to prior years. In 2006, our effective tax rate decreased to approximately 24.7% from 26.2% primarily due to the tax impact of the dividend repatriated under the AJCA in 2005 partially offset by the tax effects of our adoption of SFAS No. 123R. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate throughout 2008 based on a number of factors including variations in estimated taxable income in our geographic locations, completed and potential acquisitions, the effects of FASB Interpretation, or FIN, No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109, and the effects of SFAS No. 123R and changes in statutory tax rates, among others. Liquidity and Capital Resources During 2007, we generated positive operating cash flows of $424.1 million. These cash flows related primarily to net income of $214.5 million, adjusted for, among other things, non cash charges including depreciation and amortization of $85.2 million, stock based compensation expense of $65.5 million and the tax effect of stock based compensation of $15.5 million. These cash inflows are partially offset by an operating cash outflow of $17.8 million related to the excess tax benefit due to the exercise of stock based awards. Also attributing to these cash inflows is an aggregate increase in cash flow from our operating assets and liabilities of $40.3 million, net of the effects of acquisitions. Our investing activities used $417.6 million of cash consisting primarily of the net purchases after reinvestment, from sales and maturities of our available for sale investments of $180.4 million. These cash outflows also consisted of cash paid for our 2007 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $148.1 million and the expenditure of $85.9 million for the purchase of property and equipment. Our financing activities used cash of $131.8 million primarily related to $260.0 million of cash paid under our stock repurchase programs and $8.0 million paid on our debt. These cash outflows are partially offset by $118.4 million in proceeds received from employee stock compensation plans and $17.8 million related to excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock based awards. During 2006, we generated positive operating cash flows of $328.7 million. These cash flows related primarily to net income of $183.0 million, adjusted for, among other things, non cash charges including depreciation and amortization of $63.6 million, stock based compensation expense of $61.6 million and the tax effect of stock based compensation of $40.6 million. These cash inflows are partially offset by an operating cash outflow of $51.9 million related to the excess tax benefit due to the exercise of stock based awards and a deferred income tax benefit of $4.4 million. Also attributed to these cash inflows is an aggregate increase in cash flow from our operating assets and liabilities of $24.6 million, net of the effects of acquisitions. Our investing activities used $437.3 million of cash consisting primarily of the net purchases after reinvestment, from sales and maturities of our available for sale investments of $323.7 million. These cash outflows also consisted of cash paid for the 2006 Acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $61.5 million and the expenditure of $52.1 million for the purchase of property and equipment. Our financing activities used cash of $26.4 million primarily related to $274.2 million of cash paid under our stock repurchase programs and $34.9 million paid on our debt. These cash outflows are partially offset by $230.7 million in proceeds received from employee stock compensation plans and $51.9 million related to excess tax benefits from the exercise of stock based awards. 40 Table of Contents Historically, significant portions of our cash inflows were generated by our operations. We currently expect this trend to continue throughout 2008. We believe that our existing cash and investments together with cash flows expected from operations will be sufficient to meet expected operating and capital expenditure requirements for the next 12 months. We continue to search for suitable acquisition candidates and could acquire or make investments in companies we believe are related to our strategic objectives. We could from time to time seek to raise additional funds through the issuance of debt or equity securities for larger acquisitions. Cash and Investments Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2007 2006 (In thousands) Cash and investments $ 798,510 $ 743,381 $ 55,129 The increase in cash and investments at December 31, 2007 as compared to December 31, 2006, is primarily due to an increase in cash from operations and proceeds received from employee stock based compensation plans, partially offset by an increase in cash paid for acquisitions and capital expenditures. We generally invest our cash and cash equivalents in investment grade, highly liquid securities to allow for flexibility in the event of immediate cash needs. Our short term and long term investments primarily consist of interest bearing securities. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources and Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for further information. In February 2008, we held approximately $45.5 million in triple A rated municipal auction rate securities whose underlying assets are generally student loans which are substantially backed by the federal government. The market for municipal auction rate securities in our portfolio began experiencing auction failures on February 13, 2008. For the securities that experienced a failure the issuer will pay interest at a failure rate on the regular auction date, which is every 28 days for the securities in our portfolio. The securities will not be liquid until the auctions are successful or the issuers are able to refinance, call and /or restructure their obligations to a different interest rate mode. In the event we need to access the funds related to the affected securities, we may not be able to do so without a potential loss of principal unless future auctions on these securities are successful. If the issuers are unable to successfully close future auctions or refinance their obligations and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to adjust the carrying value of these securities and recognize an impairment charge for an other than temporary decline in the fair values. Based on our available cash and other investments, we do not currently anticipate that the lack of liquidity caused by the failed auctions of these securities will have a material adverse effect on our operating cash flows or financial position. Restricted Cash Equivalents and Investments Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2007 2006 (In thousands) Restricted cash equivalents and investments $ 63,735 $ 63,815 $ (80 ) Restricted cash equivalents and investments as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 are primarily comprised of approximately $62.8 million in investment securities and cash equivalents pledged as collateral for specified obligations under our synthetic lease arrangement. We maintain the ability to manage the composition of the restricted cash equivalents and investments within certain limits and to withdraw and use excess investment earnings from the pledged collateral for operating purposes. For further information regarding our synthetic lease, see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Accounts Receivable, Net Year Ended December 31, 2007Compared to2006 2007 2006 (In thousands) Accounts receivable $ 230,422 $ 209,011 $ 21,411 Allowance for returns (1,670 ) (1,667 ) (3 ) Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,891 ) (2,370 ) (521 ) Accounts receivable, net $ 225,861 $ 204,974 $ 20,887 41 Table of Contents The increase in accounts receivable at December 31, 2007 compared to December 31, 2006 was primarily due to an increase in sales, particularly in the last month of 2007 compared to the last month of 2006. Our allowance for returns remained relatively constant during 2007 as compared to 2006. The activity in our allowance for returns was comprised of $3.8 million in credits issued for stock balancing rights during 2007 offset by $3.5 million of provisions for returns recorded during 2007 and $0.3 million charged to other accounts. Our allowance for doubtful accounts increased by $0.5 million when comparing 2007 to 2006. The activity in our allowance for doubtful accounts was comprised primarily of an additional $2.6 million of provisions for doubtful accounts recorded during the year partially offset by $2.1 million of uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries. From time to time, we could maintain individually significant accounts receivable balances from our distributors or customers, which are comprised of large business enterprises, governments and small and medium sized businesses. If the financial condition of our distributors or customers deteriorates, our operating results could be adversely affected. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, no distributor or customer accounted for more than 10% of our accounts receivable. For more information regarding significant customers see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. Credit Facility and Term Loan Effective on August 9, 2005, we entered into the Credit Facility with a group of financial institutions, or the Lenders. Effective September 27, 2006, we entered into an amendment and restatement of the Credit Facility, or the Amendment. The Amendment decreased the overall range of interest we will pay on amounts outstanding on the Credit Facility and lowered the facility fee. In addition, the Amendment extended the term of the Credit Facility. The Credit Facility, as amended, allows us to increase the revolving credit commitment up to a maximum aggregate revolving credit commitment of $175.0 million. The Credit Facility, as amended, currently provides for a revolving line of credit that will expire on September 27, 2011 in the aggregate amount of $100.0 million, subject to continued covenant compliance. A portion of the revolving line of credit (i) in the aggregate amount of $25.0 million may be available for issuances of letters of credit and (ii) in the aggregate amount of $15.0 million may be available for swing line loans. The Credit Facility, as amended, currently bears interest at the London Interbank Offered Rate, or LIBOR, plus 0.32% and adjusts in the future in the range of 0.32% to 0.80% above LIBOR based on the level of our total debt and our adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA. In addition, we are required to pay an annual facility fee ranging from 0.08% to 0.20% based on the aggregate amount available under the Credit Facility, as amended, and the level of our total debt and adjusted EBITDA. During the year ended December 31, 2007, no funds were borrowed under the Credit Facility, as amended, and as of December 31, 2007 there were no amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility, as amended. Effective on August 9, 2005, we entered into the Term Loan with the Lenders. The Term Loan provided for an eighteen month single draw term loan facility in the aggregate amount of $100.0 million. The Term Loans interest rate was LIBOR plus 0.5% and adjusted in the range of 0.5% to 1.25% above LIBOR based on the level of our total debt and adjusted EBITDA. In addition, we were required to pay an annual facility fee ranging from 0.125% to 0.25% based on the aggregate amount of the Term Loan and the level of our total debt and adjusted EBITDA. We used the proceeds from the Term Loan to partially fund the repatriation of certain of our foreign earnings in connection with the AJCA. In February 2006, we repaid the remaining $31.0 million outstanding under the Term Loan in full. Stock Repurchase Program Our Board of Directors has authorized an ongoing stock repurchase program with a total repurchase authority granted to us of $1.8 billion, of which $300 million was authorized in January 2008. We may use the approved dollar authority to repurchase stock at any time until the approved amounts are exhausted. The objective of our stock repurchase program is to improve stockholders return. At December 31, 2007, approximately $33.5 million was available to repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock repurchase program. All shares repurchased are recorded as treasury stock. A significant portion of the funds used to repurchase stock was provided by proceeds from employee stock option exercises and the related tax benefit. We are authorized to make open market purchases of our common stock using general corporate funds. During 2007 and 2006, we entered into structured stock repurchase arrangements with large financial institutions using general corporate funds as part of our stock repurchase program in order to lower the average cost to acquire shares. These programs include terms that require us to make up front payments to the counterparty financial institution and result in the receipt of stock during or at the end of the term of the agreement or the receipt of either stock or cash at the maturity of the agreement, depending on market conditions. We did not enter into any structured stock repurchase agreements or repurchase any shares of outstanding common stock during our voluntary investigation of our historical stock option granting practices and related accounting. We made up front payments to financial institutions, net of cash and premiums received of approximately $110.0 million in 2007 and $114.4 million in 2006 under our structured stock repurchase arrangements. In addition, we received cash and premiums of approximately $40.0 million in 2007 and $41.8 million in 2006 from expired prepaid programs based upon the terms of those agreements. We took delivery of 1,655,089 shares at an average price of $35.34 per share in 2007 and we took delivery of 4,307,112 shares at an average price of $30.76 per share in 2006 from our structured repurchase agreements. As of December 31, 2007, we had 42 Table of Contents prepaid notional amounts of approximately $87.9 million remaining under our structured stock repurchase programs, which expire on various dates through September 2008. Due to the fact that the total shares to be received under our structured repurchase arrangements at December 31, 2007 is not determinable until the contracts mature, the above price per share amounts exclude the remaining shares to be received subject to the agreements. During 2007, we expended approximately $150.0 million on open market purchases and repurchased 3,720,800 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $40.31 and, during 2006, we expended approximately $159.8 million on open market purchases and repurchased 5,193,410 shares of outstanding common stock at an average price of $30.77. Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangement Contractual Obligations We have certain contractual obligations that are recorded as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Other items, such as operating lease obligations, are not recognized as liabilities in our consolidated financial statements, but are required to be disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations at December 31, 2007 and the future periods in which such obligations are expected to be settled in cash. Additional details regarding these obligations are provided in the notes to our consolidated financial statements (in thousands): Payments due by period Total Less than 1 Year 1 3 Years 4 5 Years More than 5 Years Operating lease obligations $ 204,231 $ 39,968 $ 65,167 $ 45,725 $ 53,371 Synthetic lease obligations 3,005 2,301 704 Purchase obligations (1) 11,100 11,100 Total contractual obligations (2) $ 218,336 $ 53,369 $ 65,871 $ 45,725 $ 53,371 (1) Purchase obligations represent non cancelable commitments to purchase inventory ordered before year end. (2) Total contractual obligations do not include agreements where our commitment is variable in nature or where cancellations without payment provisions exist and excludes $27.3 million of liabilities related to uncertain tax positions recorded in accordance with FIN No. 48, because we could not make reasonably reliable estimates of the period or amount of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. See Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007 for further information. As of December 31, 2007, we did not have any individually material capital lease obligations or other material long term commitments reflected on our consolidated balance sheets. Off Balance Sheet Arrangement During 2002, we became a party to a synthetic lease arrangement totaling approximately $61.0 million for our corporate headquarters office space in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The synthetic lease represents a form of off balance sheet financing under which an unrelated third party lessor funded 100% of the costs of acquiring the property and leases the asset to us. The synthetic lease qualifies as an operating lease for accounting purposes and as a financing lease for tax purposes. We do not include the property as an asset or the lease debt as a liability on our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Consequently, payments made pursuant to the lease are recorded as operating expenses in our consolidated statements of income. We entered into the synthetic lease in order to lease our headquarters properties under more favorable terms than under our previous lease arrangements. We do not materially rely on off balance sheet arrangements for our liquidity or as capital resources. For information regarding cash outflows associated with our lease payments see Contractual Obligations. The initial term of the synthetic lease is seven years. Upon approval by the lessor, we can renew the lease twice for additional two year periods. The lease payments vary based on LIBOR, plus a margin. At any time during the lease term, we have the option to sublease the property and upon thirty days written notice, we have the option to purchase the property for an amount representing the original property cost and transaction fees of approximately $61.0 million plus any lease breakage costs and outstanding amounts owed. Upon at least 180 days notice prior to the termination of the initial lease term, we have the option to remarket the property for sale to a third party. If we choose not to purchase the property at the end of the lease term, we have guaranteed a residual value to the lessor of approximately $51.9 million and possession of the buildings will be returned to the lessor. On a periodic basis, we evaluate the property for indications of permanent impairment. If an evaluation were to indicate that the fair value of the property were to decline below $51.9 million, we would be responsible for the difference under our residual value guarantee, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 43 Table of Contents The synthetic lease includes certain financial covenants including a requirement for us to maintain a restricted cash, cash equivalent or investment balance of approximately $62.8 million as collateral, which is classified as restricted cash equivalents and investments in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. We maintain the ability to manage the composition of restricted investments within certain limits and to withdraw and use excess investment earnings from the pledged collateral for operating purposes. Additionally, we must maintain a minimum net cash and investment balance of $100.0 million, excluding our collateralized investments, equity investments and outstanding debt as of the end of each fiscal quarter. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $696.9 million in cash and investments in excess of this required level. The synthetic lease includes non financial covenants, including the maintenance of the property and adequate insurance, prompt delivery of financial statements to the administrative agent of the lessor and prompt payment of taxes associated with the property. As of December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all material provisions of the arrangement. In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities, which addresses the consolidation of variable interest entities in which an enterprise absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses, receives a majority of the entitys expected residual returns, or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the entity. In December 2003, the FASB issued FIN No. 46 (revised), which replaced FIN No. 46. FIN No. 46 (revised) was effective immediately for certain disclosure requirements and variable interest entities referred to as special purpose entities for periods ending after December 15, 2003 and for other types of entities for financial statements for periods ending after March 15, 2004. We determined that we are not required to consolidate the lessor, the leased facility or the related debt associated with our synthetic lease in accordance with FIN No. 46 (revised). Accordingly, there was no impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows from adoption. However, if the lessor were to change its ownership of the property or significantly change its ownership of other properties that it currently holds, we could be required to consolidate the entity, the leased facility and the associated debt in a future period. Commitments Capital expenditures were $85.9 million during 2007, $52.1 million during 2006 and $26.4 million during 2005. During 2007, capital expenditures were primarily related to application and infrastructure delivery to enable growth and enhance management reporting capabilities and leasehold improvements. During 2006, capital expenditures were primarily related to the implementation of certain systems to streamline business operations and enhance management reporting capabilities and leasehold improvements. During 2002 and 2001, we took actions to consolidate certain of our offices, including the exit of certain leased office space and the abandonment of certain leasehold improvements. During the third quarter of 2006, we entered into an agreement, which assigned the operating lease and all remaining liability related to one of the closed offices to a third party. Lease obligations related to the remaining existing operating lease continue to 2018 with a total remaining obligation at December 31, 2007 of approximately $8.3 million, of which $1.3 million was accrued as of December 31, 2007, and is reflected in accrued expenses and other liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. In calculating this accrual, we made estimates, based on market information, including the estimated vacancy periods and sublease rates and opportunities. We periodically re evaluate our estimates; and if actual circumstances prove to be materially worse than management has estimated, the total charges for these vacant facilities could be significantly higher. Because virtually all holders of stock options granted by us were not involved in or aware of the incorrect pricing of certain options, we have taken and intend to take further actions to address certain adverse tax consequences that may be incurred by the holders of such incorrectly priced options. The primary adverse tax consequence is that the re measured options vesting after December 31, 2004 subject the option holder to a penalty tax under Section 409A of the IRC (and, as applicable, similar excise taxes under state laws). As a result during 2007, we recorded $3.4 million, net of income tax benefits, in liabilities related to the anticipated payment by us of payroll and excise taxes on behalf of our employees for options that were exercised during open tax years under the related statutes. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The following discussion about our market risk includes forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward looking statements. The analysis methods we used to assess and mitigate risk discussed below should not be considered projections of future events, gains or losses. We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates that could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. To mitigate foreign currency risk, we utilize derivative financial instruments. The counterparties to our derivative instruments are major financial institutions. All of the potential changes noted below are based on sensitivity analyses performed on our financial position as of December 31, 2007. Actual results could differ materially. Discussions of our accounting policies for derivatives and hedging activities are included in Notes 2 and 13 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2007. 44 Table of Contents Exposure to Exchange Rates A substantial majority of our overseas expense and capital purchasing activities are transacted in local currencies, including Euros, British pounds sterling, Australian dollars, Swiss francs, Indian rupees, Japanese yen, Singapore dollars, Hong Kong dollars, Canadian dollars, Danish krone and Swedish krona. To reduce our exposure to a reduction in U.S. dollar value and the volatility of future cash flows caused by changes in currency exchange rates, we have established a hedging program. We use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge certain forecasted foreign currency expenditures. Our hedging program significantly reduces, but does not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had in place foreign currency forward sale contracts with a notional amount of $104.3 million and $56.0 million, respectively, and foreign currency forward purchase contracts with a notional amount of $311.1 million and $220.0 million, respectively. At December 31, 2007, these contracts had an aggregate fair asset value of $5.8 million and at December 31, 2006, these contracts had an aggregate fair liability value of $4.6 million. Based on a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2007 market rates, the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts would decrease the asset by $21.2 million, resulting in a net liability position. Conversely, a hypothetical 10% depreciation of the U.S. dollar from December 31, 2007 market rates would increase the fair value of our foreign currency forward contracts by $21.1 million. In these hypothetical movements, foreign operating costs would move in the opposite direction. This calculation assumes that each exchange rate would change in the same direction relative to the U.S. dollar. In addition to the direct effects of changes in exchange rates quantified above, changes in exchange rates could also change the dollar value of sales and affect the volume of sales as our competitors products become more or less attractive. We do not anticipate any material adverse impact to our consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows as a result of these foreign exchange forward contracts. Exposure to Interest Rates We have interest rate exposures resulting from our interest based available for sale securities. We maintain available for sale investments in debt securities and we limit the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer or type of instrument. The securities in our investment portfolio are not leveraged. The securities classified as available for sale are subject to interest rate risk. The modeling technique used measures the change in fair values arising from an immediate hypothetical shift in market interest rates and assumes that ending fair values include principal plus accrued interest and reinvestment income. If market interest rates were to increase by 100 basis points from December 31, 2007 and 2006 levels, the fair value of the available for sale portfolio would decline by approximately $3.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively. If market interest rates were to decrease by 100 basis points from December 31, 2007 and 2006 levels, the fair value of the available for sale portfolio would increase by approximately $3.2 million and $1.8 million, respectively. These amounts are determined by considering the impact of the hypothetical interest rate movements on our available for sale investment portfolios. This analysis does not consider the effect of credit risk as a result of the reduced level of overall economic activity that could exist in such an environment. During 2005, we entered into the Credit Facility, as amended in 2006, or the Amended Credit Facility. Accordingly, we could be exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates on our long term debt. This exposure relates to our $100.0 million Amended Credit Facility. Borrowings under the Amended Credit Facility currently bear interest at variable rates based on LIBOR plus 0.32% and adjusts in the future in the range of 0.32% to 0.80% above LIBOR based on our level of total debt and our adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or EBITDA. A hypothetical 1% interest rate change would not have any current impact on our results of operations as we had no amounts outstanding under the Amended Credit Facility as of December 31, 2007. In April 2002, we entered into a synthetic lease with a substantive lessor totaling approximately $61.0 million related to office space utilized for our corporate headquarters in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. Payments under this synthetic lease are indexed to a variable interest rate (LIBOR plus a margin). Based upon our interest rate exposure under this synthetic lease at December 31, 2007, a 100 basis point change in the current interest rate would have an immaterial effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition to interest rate exposure, if the fair value of our headquarters property, under this synthetic lease, were to significantly decline, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 
 
