FILE:V/V-8K-20080429182708.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
This Form 8-K/A is being filed solely to correct typographical errors in Exhibit 99.1 (the "") and Exhibit 99.2 (the "") to Visa Inc.'s current report on Form 8-K filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 28, 2008.
Press Release
Presentation
The following corrections were made to the Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income and Net Income disclosure in the Press Release and to the Adjusted Operating Income and Net Income disclosure in the Appendix to the Presentation:
 
 
 
 
 
The amounts stated in the first two bullets were correctly reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three and six months ended March 31, 2008 contained in the Press Release, as first furnished on April 28, 2008.
A copy of the revised Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the revised Press Release is furnished but not filed. A copy of the revised Presentation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the revised Presentation is furnished but not filed.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for our fiscal second quarter ended March 31, 2008. GAAP net income for the quarter was $314 million, or $0.39 per diluted class A common share. GAAP diluted class A common shares outstanding were 778 million. On an adjusted basis (reflective of a normalized tax rate and excluding litigation, restructuring and purchase amortization), net income for the quarter was $401 million, or $0.52 per diluted class A common share. Adjusted diluted class A common shares outstanding were 779 million.
San Francisco, CA, April 28, 2008
Net operating revenue in the fiscal second quarter 2008 was $1.5 billion. Strong contributions were made by service fees, data processing fees, and international transaction fees as payment volumes and processed transactions rose across all regions worldwide.
"We are very pleased with our financial results for our first quarter as a public company. Despite a challenging economic environment, Visa recorded strong growth in payments volume and transactions globally and across our diverse suite of products  a trend which is continuing into the fiscal third quarter," said Joseph Saunders, Visa's chairman and chief executive officer. "Our performance is a testament to Visa's business model and economic resiliency, as we continue to lead the migration from cash and checks to electronic payments."
"Visa is focused on growing our business globally by extending our industry-leading processing services, expanding our products to new geographies, and further strengthening our valuable relationships with financial institutions and merchants who are critical to our success," said Mr. Saunders.
Fiscal Second Quarter 2008 Financial Highlights:
Visa Inc. reports operational performance data on a trailing one quarter basis, based on information provided to the company from client financial institutions. This operational performance data, which includes payments volume for our clients, total volume, total payments transactions, and total cards carrying Visa brands, are in part the basis for financial results in the following quarter. For the period ending December 31, 2007, which impacts the March 2008 fiscal quarter, Visa's operational performance highlights include:
 
 
 
 
Total processed transactions, which are based on current fiscal second quarter results on Visa's processing system, were 8.8 billion, a 15% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal second quarter 2008, service fees were $792 million, up 29% over the prior year on a pro forma basis, and were recognized based on payment volume in the prior quarter. All other fee categories are recognized based on current quarter activity and are also compared on a pro forma basis. Data processing fees rose 34% over the prior year to $494 million. International transaction fees, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, grew 35% over the prior year to $379 million, as we continued to benefit from higher multi-currency payments volumes across all regions during the fiscal second quarter. Other revenue, which includes the Visa Europe licensing fee, was $126 million for the fiscal second quarter. Volume and incentive payments, which are contra revenue, were $338 million for the fiscal second quarter.
Total operating expenses were $1.1 billion for the fiscal second quarter, up 39% over the prior year on a pro forma basis. The increase in total operating expenses over the prior year was primarily driven by a
 
$285 million provision for covered litigation. This amount is expected to be fully covered for Visa Inc. under the terms of the retrospective responsibility plan. Excluding this provision, operating expenses grew only 3% over the prior year on a pro forma basis.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $8 billion at March 31, 2008, and includes $2.7 billion that we intend to use to redeem all of the series II and a portion of the series III class C shares in October 2008.
Other items for the second fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2008, included:
 
 
The Company's net income and earnings per share, excluding special items, are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
Management believes the presentation of adjusted operating income and adjusted net income provides a clearer understanding of the one-time items related to the Company's reorganization and initial public offering. These measures also adjust for expenses related to covered litigation that will be funded by the litigation escrow account through the retrospective responsibility plan. These items have a significant impact on our financial results but are either non-recurring or have no operating cash impact. Recognizing that we have a very complex equity structure incorporating multiple classes and series of common stock, the Company has also presented adjusted diluted class A earnings per share calculated based on adjusted net income and the adjusted weighted average number of shares outstanding in the periods presented. This non-GAAP financial measure has been presented to illustrate our per share results reflecting our capital structure after the redemption of all class C (series II) common stock and a portion of class C (series III) common stock, which the Company intends to redeem in October 2008. The class C (series II) common stock is classified as temporary equity and the class C (series III) common stock is classified as a liability on the Company's consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2008. Management believes this non-GAAP presentation provides the reader with a clearer understanding of our per share results by excluding those shares to be redeemed and allocating adjusted net income only to classes and series of common stock classified as permanent equity.
Fiscal Year-to-Date 2008 Results:
For the six months ended March 31, 2008, Visa Inc. reported GAAP net income of $738 million, or $0.93 per diluted class A common share. GAAP diluted class A common shares outstanding were 762 million.
On an adjusted basis, (reflective of a normalized tax rate and excluding litigation, restructuring, and purchase amortization) net income for the six months ended March 31, 2008, was $844 million, or $1.08 per diluted class A common share. Adjusted diluted class A common shares outstanding were 779 million.
Net operating revenue for the six months ended March 31, 2008, was $2.9 billion, up 24% over the prior year on a pro forma basis.
Total operating expenses were $1.9 billion for the six months ended March 31, 2008, up 21% over the prior year on a pro forma basis. The increase in total operating expenses over the prior year was primarily driven by a $285 million provision for covered litigation. This amount is expected to be fully covered for Visa Inc. under the terms of the retrospective responsibility plan. Excluding this provision, operating expenses grew only 3% over the prior year on a pro forma basis.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc.'s financial outlook over the next three years includes the following metrics:
 
 
 
 
This outlook reflects an assumed 41% percent GAAP tax rate for fiscal year 2008. Our intent is to reduce this rate to a level around 35-36% over the next five years.
Second Quarter Results Webcast Information
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT (2:00 p.m. PDT) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc's Investor Relations website at
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys acceptance around the world and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries.
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to: (i) statements regarding certain of Visa's goals and expectations with respect to earnings per share, revenue, operating margin, and free cash flow, and the growth rate in those item, as well as other measures of economic performance, and (ii) statements relating to the benefits of the 2007 reorganization and the 2008 initial public offering.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed under the heading "" in our Prospectus dated March 18, 2008, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) on March 19, 2008. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Risk Factors
Contacts:
 
 
 
VISA INC.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
 
VISA INC.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
VISA INC.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Income Statements - With California Mutual Trading Status
The quarterly pro forma statements of operations data set forth below for fiscal 2007 give effect to the reorganization as if it had occurred on October 1, 2006. These pro forma statements of operations data have been prepared in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 141, ""
Business Combinations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Management believes the presentation of adjusted operating income and adjusted net income provides a clearer understanding of the one-time items related to the Company's reorganization and initial public offering. These measures also adjust for expenses related to covered litigation that will be funded by the litigation escrow account. These items have a significant impact on our financial results but are either non-recurring or have no operating cash impact.
Recognizing that we have a very complex equity structure incorporating multiple classes and series of common stock, the Company has also presented adjusted diluted class A earnings per share calculated below based on adjusted net income and the adjusted weighted average number of shares outstanding in the periods presented. This non-GAAP financial measure has been presented to illustrate our per share results reflecting our capital structure after the redemption of all class C (series II) common stock and a portion of class C (series III) common stock, which the Company intends to redeem in October 2008. The class C (series II) common stock is classified as temporary equity and the class C (series III) common stock is classified as a liability on the Company's consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2008. Management believes this non-GAAP presentation provides the reader with a clearer understanding of our per share results by excluding these shares to be redeemed and allocating adjusted net income only to permanent equity.
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the operational results for the 3 months ended December 31, 2007, as well as the prior eight quarterly reporting periods and the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Payments Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and Cash Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total Volume represents Payments Volume plus Cash Volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports period-over-period growth in Total Volume, Payments Volume and Cash Volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
2. Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks.
 
 



