FILE:V/V-8K-20081029164637.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 29, 2008, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended September 30, 2008.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
On October 29, 2008, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fourth quarter and year ended September 30, 2008 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2008 Earnings Results on Higher Global Volumes and Strength of U.S. Debit
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2008. For the fourth quarter ending September 30, 2008, on an adjusted basis (reflective of a normalized tax rate and excluding certain litigation reserves, restructuring charges and purchase amortization), net income for the quarter was $448 million, or $0.58 per diluted Class A common share. Adjusted diluted Class A common shares outstanding were 776 million. The Company's adjusted net income and adjusted diluted net income per Class A common share are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, October 29, 2008
On a GAAP basis, the Company reported a net loss of $356 million, or $(0.45) per diluted Class A common share, inclusive of a FAS 5 litigation reserve of approximately $1.1 billion related to the previously announced settlement of the Discover litigation. Since this litigation is covered by the Company's Retrospective Responsibility Plan, responsibility for the settlement is allocated to the Company's U.S. financial institution holders via an escrow account and other mechanisms previously established under the Plan.
Net operating revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2008 was $1.7 billion, driven by strong contributions from service fees, data processing fees, and international transaction fees. Payments volume and processed transactions remained strong across all regions worldwide.
"Visa capped an historic fiscal 2008 with a strong fourth quarter. Despite increasing economic turbulence worldwide, Visa posted strong revenue and earnings gains while diligently taking steps to capitalize on the continuing secular trend toward electronic payments," said Joe Saunders. "Although no company is immune to the challenges of this economic environment, we believe Visa's network business model, the continuing secular shift to electronic payments and diversity across both products and geographies offer a degree of resilience to our organization."
"Visa's evolution from our credit roots into a multi-product payments company continues to benefit our business. Debit  which now represents more than 53% of Visa's payments transactions worldwide  is particularly important to our results in the current environment, as that product is rooted in everyday spend' behavior which has proven to be less susceptible to economic fluctuations and continues to grow."
"We remain intensely focused on helping our financial institution and retail clients through this difficult period, providing them with products and services that build deeper cardholder relationships and boost their own bottom line," added Saunders.
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2008 Financial Highlights:
Visa Inc.'s operational performance highlights for the fiscal fourth quarter, as measured by June 30, 2008 statistical data, include:
 
 
 
 
 
Total processed transactions, which represent fiscal fourth quarter transactions processed by VisaNet, were 9.6 billion, an 11% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal fourth quarter 2008, service fees were $788 million, up 8% over the prior year on a pro forma basis, and are recognized based on payment volume in the prior quarter. All other fee categories are recognized based on current quarter activity and are compared on a pro forma basis. Data processing fees rose 18% over the prior year on a pro forma basis to $548 million. International transaction fees, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, grew 45% over the prior year on a pro forma basis to $512 million, as we continued to benefit from higher multi-currency payments volumes across all regions during the fiscal fourth quarter. Other revenue, which includes the Visa Europe licensing fee, was $160 million, up 20% over the prior year on a pro forma basis. Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $299 million.
Adjusted operating expenses were $943 million for the fiscal fourth quarter, a 20% decrease from the prior year on a pro forma basis. Operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $2.2 billion for the fiscal fourth quarter, a 44% decrease from the prior year on a pro forma basis.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $7.5 billion at September 30, 2008. This amount does not include short-term investments of approximately $953 million which are classified as short-term other assets.
Fiscal Year 2008 Results:
On an adjusted basis (reflective of a normalized tax rate and excluding litigation reserves, restructuring charges and purchase amortization), net income for the full-year ended September 30, 2008, was $1.7 billion, or $2.25 per diluted Class A common share. Adjusted diluted Class A common shares outstanding were 776 million.
Reported GAAP net income of $804 million, or $0.96 per diluted Class A common share, inclusive of a FAS 5 litigation reserve of $1.4 billion, which is covered under the Company's Retrospective Responsibility Plan.
Net operating revenue for the full-year was $6.3 billion, an increase of 21% over the prior year on a pro forma basis. Currency fluctuations contributed 2% of the increase in net operating revenues for the full-year.
 
Adjusted operating expenses were $3.4 billion for the full-year, a 4% decrease from the prior year on a pro forma basis. Operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $5.0 billion for the full-year, a 20% decrease from the prior year on a pro forma basis.
Visa's GAAP effective tax rate was 40% for the twelve months ended September 30, 2008.
Management believes the presentation of adjusted operating income, adjusted operating expenses and adjusted net income provides a clearer understanding of the one-time items related to the Company's reorganization and initial public offering. These measures also adjust for expenses related to covered litigation that will be funded by the litigation escrow account through the Retrospective Responsibility Plan and a $19 million and $51 million after-tax charge taken in the fourth quarter and full-year 2008 related to non-recurring legacy litigation items that were not funded by the litigation escrow account. These items have a significant impact on our financial results but are either non-recurring or have no operating cash impact. Recognizing that we have a very complex equity structure incorporating multiple classes and series of common stock, the Company has also presented adjusted diluted Class A earnings per share calculated based on adjusted net income and the adjusted diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding in the periods presented.
Subsequent Events:
On October 10, 2008, as planned, the Company completed the redemption of 79,748,857 shares of its Class C (Series II) Common Stock and 35,263,585 shares of its Class C (Series III) Common Stock held by Visa Europe Limited. The net cash amount that the Company paid to Visa Europe Limited in connection with the redemption of all its outstanding shares of Class C (Series II) Common Stock and 35,263,585 shares of its Class C (Series III) Common Stock was $2.65 billion. As planned, the Company used a portion of the net proceeds from its March 2008 initial public offering to fund these redemptions. In addition, immediately after the completion of the partial redemption of the Class C (Series III) Common Stock, each outstanding share of Class C (Series III) Common Stock and Class C (Series IV) Common Stock automatically and without further action converted into one share of Class C (Series I) Common Stock.
 
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. clarifies its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2010 with the caveat that revenue growth may be somewhat challenged in 2010 given the current economic environment in the U.S. and around the globe:
 
 
 
 
 
This outlook reflects an assumed 40% percent GAAP tax rate for fiscal year 2009. The Company's intent is to reduce this rate to a level around 35-36% over the next four years.
Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2008 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT (2:00 p.m. PDT) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc's Investor Relations website at
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world, and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit
www.corporate.visa.com.
 
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding certain of Visa's goals and expectations with respect to adjusted earnings per share, revenue, adjusted operating margin, and free cash flow, and the growth rate in those items, as well as other measures of economic performance.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in our Prospectus dated March 18, 2008, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) on March 19, 2008. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Paul Cohen or Sandra Chu, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Pro Forma Fiscal 2007 Quarterly Results of Operations
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income and Net Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Expenses
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Non-operating Income (Expenses)
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Weighted Average Class A Common Stock Outstanding Used in the Calculation of Adjusted Diluted Class A Earnings Per Share
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Class A Common Stock Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
 
 
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
US$ in millions
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the operational results for the 3 months ended June 30, 2008, as well as the prior ten quarterly reporting periods and the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Payments Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and Cash Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total Volume represents Payments Volume plus Cash Volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports period-over-period growth in Total Volume, Payments Volume and Cash Volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
 
2. Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks.
 
 



