FILE:V/V-8K-20080730161748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 30, 2008, Visa Inc. (the "") issued a press release announcing financial results for its third quarter.
Company
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
On July 30, 2008, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its third quarter financial results. A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2008. GAAP net income for the quarter was $422 million, or $0.51 per diluted class A common share. GAAP diluted class A common shares outstanding were 776 million. On an adjusted basis (reflective of a normalized tax rate and excluding certain litigation, restructuring and purchase amortization), net income for the quarter was $457 million, or $0.59 per diluted class A common share. Adjusted diluted class A common shares outstanding were 779 million.
San Francisco, CA, July 30, 2008
Net operating revenue in the fiscal third quarter 2008 was $1.6 billion, driven by strong contributions from service fees, data processing fees, and international transaction fees as payment volumes and processed transactions rose across all regions worldwide.
"We are very pleased with our fiscal third quarter results as Visa continues to lead and benefit from the global migration to electronic payments while expanding our business worldwide," said Joe Saunders, Visa's chairman and chief executive officer. "Despite a challenging economic environment in the United States and a softening in traditional credit card spending, the strength of Visa's debit business drove solid growth in the region. In Asia Pacific, Latin America, Canada and CEMEA, Visa achieved strong growth across its range of product offerings, reinforcing our position as the world's leading payments brand and network."
"The Company's strong financial performance and double-digit increases in payments volume and transactions in this current economic environment are further proof of the resiliency of our network business model," added Saunders. "As we look to the future, we remain committed to being the best partner for our financial institution and merchant clients by investing in innovations that deliver measureable returns to their businesses and value to consumers and merchants."
Fiscal Third Quarter 2008 Financial Highlights:
Visa Inc.'s operational performance highlights for the fiscal third quarter, as measured by March 31, 2008 statistical data, include:
 
 
 
Total processed transactions, which are based on current fiscal third quarter results on Visa's processing system, were 9.5 billion, a 13% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal third quarter 2008, service fees were $749 million, up 13% over the prior year on a pro forma basis, and were recognized based on payment volume in the prior quarter. All other fee categories are recognized based on current quarter activity and are also compared on a pro forma basis. Data processing fees rose 20% over the prior year on a pro forma basis to $539 million. International transaction fees, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, grew 44% over the prior year on a pro forma basis to $449 million, as we continued to benefit from higher multi-currency payments volumes across all regions during the fiscal third quarter. Other revenue, which includes the Visa Europe licensing fee, was $150 million during the fiscal third quarter, up 26% over the prior year on a pro forma basis. Volume and incentive payments, which are a contra revenue item, were $274 million for the fiscal third quarter.
Total operating expenses were $965 million for the fiscal third quarter, a 5% increase over the prior year on a pro forma basis.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $8.4 billion at June 30, 2008, and includes $2.7 billion that the Company intends to use to redeem all of the Company's class C (series II) and a portion of the class C (series III) shares in October 2008.
The Company's net income and earnings per share, excluding special items, are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
Management believes the presentation of adjusted operating income and adjusted net income provides a clearer understanding of the one-time items related to the Company's reorganization and initial public offering. These measures also adjust for expenses related to covered litigation that will be funded by the litigation escrow account through the retrospective responsibility plan and a $31 million after-tax charge taken in the third quarter related to non-recurring legacy litigation items. The third quarter charge is not funded by the litigation escrow account. These items have a significant impact on our financial results but are either non-recurring or have no operating cash impact. Recognizing that we have a very complex equity structure incorporating multiple classes and series of common stock, the Company has also presented adjusted diluted class A earnings per share calculated based on adjusted net income and the adjusted weighted average number of shares outstanding in the periods presented. This non-GAAP financial measure has been presented to illustrate our per share results reflecting our capital structure after the redemption of all class C (series II) common stock and a portion of class C (series III) common stock, which the Company intends to redeem in October 2008. The class C
 
(series II) common stock is classified as temporary equity and the class C (series III) common stock is classified as a liability on the Company's consolidated balance sheet at June 30, 2008. Management believes this non-GAAP presentation provides the reader with a clearer understanding of our per share results by excluding those shares to be redeemed and allocating adjusted net income only to classes and series of common stock classified as permanent equity.
Fiscal Year-to-Date 2008 Results:
For the nine months ended June 30, 2008, Visa Inc. reported GAAP net income of $1.2 billion, or $1.44 per diluted class A common share. GAAP diluted class A common shares outstanding were 767 million.
On an adjusted basis, (reflective of a normalized tax rate and excluding litigation, restructuring, and purchase amortization) net income for the nine months ended June 30, 2008, was $1.3 billion, or $1.67 per diluted class A common share. Adjusted diluted class A common shares outstanding were 779 million.
Net operating revenue for the nine months ended June 30, 2008, was $4.6 billion, an increase of 22% over the prior year on a pro forma basis.
Total operating expenses were $2.9 billion for the nine months ended June 30, 2008, an increase of 15% over the prior year on a pro forma basis.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. raises its financial outlook for the following metric for FY 2008:
 
Visa Inc. raises its financial outlook for the following metric for FY 2009 and 2010:
 
Visa Inc. reaffirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2010:
 
 
 
This outlook reflects an assumed 41% percent GAAP tax rate for fiscal year 2008. The Company's intent is to reduce this rate to a level around 35-36% over the next five years.
Fiscal Third Quarter Results Webcast Information
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT (2:00 p.m. PDT) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at http://investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc's Investor Relations website at
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world, and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding certain of Visa's goals and expectations with respect to adjusted earnings per share, revenue, adjusted operating margin, and free cash flow, and the growth rate in those items, as well as other measures of economic performance.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in our Prospectus dated March 18, 2008, filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) on March 19, 2008. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Contacts:
 
 
 
Visa Inc. Reports Fiscal Third Quarter 2008 Earnings Results
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Pro Forma Fiscal 2007 Quarterly Results of Operations
US$ in millions
 
 
 
 
Pro Forma Fiscal 2007 Results of Operations
(1) (2)
US$ in millions
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income and Net Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Weighted Average Class A Common Stock Outstanding Used in the
Calculation of Adjusted Diluted Class A Earnings Per Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
Class A Common Stock Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
 
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the operational results for the 3 months ended March 31, 2008, as well as the prior eight quarterly reporting periods and the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Payments Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and Cash Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total Volume represents Payments Volume plus Cash Volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports period-over-period growth in Total Volume, Payments Volume and Cash Volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
2. Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks.
 
 



