FILE:V/V-8K-20091021163520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 21, 2009, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that John Partridge had been named President of the Company. Partridge's transition from his former position as Chief Operating Officer is effective immediately.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) announced today that John Partridge has been named President of the company. Partridge's transition from his former position as Chief Operating Officer is effective immediately. He will continue to report to Joseph W. Saunders, Chairman and CEO of Visa Inc., and will oversee all client, marketing and product functions globally, enabling Visa to more effectively and efficiently allocate resources among markets to enhance its service to clients and speed Visa's growth.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, October 21, 2009
About Visa
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world, and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 200 countries and territories. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Contacts:
Will Valentine, Media Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2166
E-mail: globalmedia@visa.com


