FILE:V/V-8K-20090204163415.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 4, 2009, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal 2009 first quarter.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
On February 4, 2009, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal 2009 first quarter financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal First Quarter 2009 Earnings Results and Reaffirms 2009 Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the company's fiscal first quarter 2009 ended December 31, 2008. On an adjusted basis (reflective of a normalized tax rate, restructuring and purchase amortization), net income for the quarter was $599 million, or $0.78 per diluted class A common share. GAAP net income for the quarter was $574 million, or $0.74 per diluted class A common share. The weighted average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was 772 million. The company's adjusted net income and adjusted diluted net income per class A common share are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, February 4, 2009
Net operating revenue in the fiscal first quarter of 2009 was $1.7 billion, an increase of 17% over the prior year, driven by strong contributions across all revenue categories. Payments volume and processed transactions remained solid, in particular in the Asia Pacific (AP), Central Europe, Middle East and Africa (CEMEA), and Latin America and Caribbean (LAC) regions.
"We are very pleased with our fiscal first quarter earnings results and our ability to deliver strong operating performance," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Despite the increasingly challenging economy, processed transaction growth, the strength of debit, and the global diversity of our business continue to highlight the resilience of our business model."
"Even though we now foresee tougher economic trends in the second half of fiscal 2009 with resulting net revenue growth likely in the low single digits, we remain stead-fast in our ability to meet our 2009 EPS guidance," added Saunders. "Rationalizing our expense structure and further leveraging operational efficiencies within the organization remain priorities. These directives, coupled with providing innovative products and services along with the global expansion of our business, will further support our long-term success."
Fiscal First Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights:
Visa Inc.'s operational performance highlights for the fiscal first quarter, as measured by business activity through September 30, 2008, include:
 
 
 
 
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet through December 31, 2008, were 9.8 billion, an 8% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal first quarter 2009, service revenues were $793 million, an increase of over 8% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payment volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 13% over the prior year to $554 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, grew 33% over the prior year to $505 million, as the company benefited from prior pricing initiatives. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $156 million, up 17% over the prior year. Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $269 million.
Adjusted total operating expenses were $728 million for the fiscal first quarter, a 4% decrease from the prior year. Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $773 million for the quarter, a 5% decrease from the prior year.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $5.6 billion at December 31, 2008.
 
Notable Events:
In October 2008, as planned, the company used $1.508 billion of net proceeds from its initial public offering (IPO) for the required redemption of 35,263,585 shares of class C (series III) common stock. Following the redemption, the remaining 27,499,203 shares of class C (series III) and class C (series IV) common stock outstanding automatically converted into shares of class C (series I) common stock on a one-to-one basis. The company also utilized net proceeds from the IPO to fund the redemption of all class C (series II) common stock. The redemption price of $1.146 billion was adjusted for dividends paid and related interest, resulting in a cash payment of $1.138 billion.
In December 2008, the company formed Visa Processing Services, Ltd. ("VPS"), a joint venture that enables us to offer comprehensive multi-currency and multi-language issuer processing services outside the US, in some of the fastest growing economies in the world such as Japan and India. VPS reflects Visa's strategic focus on growing our processing capabilities worldwide, expanding our global strength in debit, and furthering the migration to electronic payments.
On December 19, 2008, as planned, the company deposited $1.1 billion ("Loss Funds") into the litigation escrow account previously established under the company's Retrospective Responsibility Plan. The deposit of the Loss Funds into the escrow account to fund the Discover settlement reduced the conversion ratio applicable to the company's class B common stock outstanding from 0.7143 per class A share to 0.6296 per class A share. The deposit of Loss Funds has the effect of a repurchase of 20,800,824 class A common stock equivalents from the company's class B shareholders.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metric for full-year 2009:
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2010 with the caveat that annual net revenue growth may be somewhat challenged in 2010 if the current economic environment in the U.S. and around the globe persists beyond 2009:
 
 
 
 
 
This outlook reflects an assumed 40% percent GAAP tax rate for fiscal year 2009. The company's intent is to reduce this rate to a level around 35-36% over the next four years.
Fiscal First Quarter 2009 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT (2:00 p.m. PDT) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at http://investor.visa.com. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc's Investor Relations website at
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world, and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding certain of Visa's goals and expectations with respect to adjusted earnings per share, revenue, adjusted operating margin, and free cash flow, and the growth rate in those items, as well as other measures of economic performance.
 
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed in Part 1, Item 1A  "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this presentation. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Paul Cohen or Sandra Chu, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
 
 
Adjusted Operating Income and Net Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Expenses
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Non-operating (Expense) Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Class A Common Stock Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
 
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the operational results for the 3 months ended September 30, 2008, as well as the prior seven quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Payments Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and Cash Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total Volume represents Payments Volume plus Cash Volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports period-over-period growth in Total Volume, Payments Volume and Cash Volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
 
2. Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks.
 
 



