FILE:V/V-8K-20091027161330.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2009, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and year ended September 30, 2009.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On October 27, 2009, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal fourth quarter and year ended September 30, 2009 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
On October 27, 2009, the Company issued a press release announcing that its board of directors (the "Board") has authorized a $1 billion share repurchase plan. The authorization will be in place through September 30, 2010, and is subject to extension or expansion at the determination of Visa's Board.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Solid Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2009 Earnings Results and Authorizes a $1 Billion Share Repurchase Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2009. For the fourth quarter ending September 30, 2009, on an adjusted basis (reflective of restructuring and purchase amortization), net income for the quarter was $552 million, or $0.74 per diluted class A common share. The weighted average number of diluted class A common shares was 747 million. The Company's adjusted net income and adjusted diluted net income per class A common share are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, October 27, 2009
GAAP net income for the quarter was $514 million, or $0.69 per diluted class A common share.
Net operating revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2009 was $1.9 billion, an increase of 10% over the prior year's net operating revenue of $1.7 billion and driven primarily by strong contributions from data processing revenues as processed transactions grew 9%. Though slightly negative in the U.S. and Canada, payments volume continued to grow on a constant dollar basis in all other regions globally.
"Visa delivered another quarter and year of solid financial results during this challenging economic environment," said Joseph W. Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our strong returns are a reflection of consumers' continuing shift to electronic payments, the success of efficiency initiatives and importantly, continued support from our financial institution partners."
"As we enter our new fiscal year, we are beginning to see some very early signs of stabilization in our business," continued Saunders. "And, while we cannot predict the ultimate speed or size of any economic recovery, we are confident that Visa is well positioned for future growth based on the investments we continue to make in our processing infrastructure, products and brand."
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights:
Visa Inc.'s operational performance highlights for the fiscal fourth quarter, as measured by business activity through June 30, 2009, include:
 
 
 
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet for the three months ending September 30, 2009, totaled 10.5 billion, a 9% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal fourth quarter 2009, service revenues were $808 million, an increase of 3% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 33% over the prior year to $727 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, declined 1% over the prior year to $507 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $163 million, up 2% over the prior year. Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $326 million, an increase of 9% over the prior year.
Adjusted total operating expenses were $960 million for the fourth quarter, a 2% increase from the prior year's adjusted total operating expenses of $943 million. On a GAAP basis, total operating expenses were $1.0 billion for the quarter.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and investment securities were $6.6 billion at September 30, 2009.
Fiscal Full-Year 2009 Financial Highlights:
On an adjusted basis (reflective of restructuring and purchase amortization), net income for the full-year ended September 30, 2009, was $2.4 billion, or $3.23 per diluted class A common share inclusive of the impact from the VisaNet do Brasil sale. Excluding the sale, net income for the full-year was $2.2 billion, or $2.92 per diluted class A common share. The weighted average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was 758 million.
GAAP net income for the full-year was $2.4 billion, or $3.10 per diluted class A common share.
 
Net operating revenue for the full year was $6.9 billion, an increase of 10% over the prior year's operating revenue of $6.3 billion. Currency fluctuations contributed negatively 3% towards full-year net operating revenues.
For the fiscal full-year, service revenues were $3.2 billion, an increase of 4% versus the prior year. Data processing revenues rose 17% over the prior year to $2.4 billion. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, grew 11% over the prior year to $1.9 billion. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $625 million, up 10% over the prior year. Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $1.2 billion, an increase of 6% over the prior year.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet for the 12 months ended September 30, 2009, totaled 39.9 billion, an 8% increase over the prior year.
Adjusted operating expenses were $3.2 billion for the full-year, a 4% decrease from the prior year's adjusted total operating expenses of $3.4 billion. Operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $3.4 billion for the full year.
Visa's GAAP effective tax rate was 41% for the twelve months ended September 30, 2009.
Notable Events:
As previously announced, Visa initiated a program to allow its class C stockholders to apply (prior to September 30, 2009) for an early termination of the transfer restrictions applicable to class C shares, for up to 30% of the class C shares held by each such stockholder as of July 1, 2009, subject to certain terms and conditions. As of September 30, 2009, 89% of the potentially available shares requested were unlocked. The remaining class C shares continue to be subject to the general transfer restrictions that expire on March 25, 2011 under Visa's Certificate of Incorporation.
As previously disclosed, Visa U.S.A. Inc. entered into an agreement to modify its payment obligations under a settlement agreement, dated as of June 4, 2003, with plaintiffs in a class action lawsuit challenging certain aspects of the payment card industry under U.S. federal antitrust law. On October 2, 2009, the court in the class action lawsuit entered a final order approving the agreement, subject to a 30 day appeals period. The Company made a prepayment of its remaining $800 million in payment obligations at a discounted amount of $682 million on October 5, 2009.
On October 21, 2009, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.125 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on December 1, 2009 to all holders of record of Visa's class A, class B and class C common stock as of November 16, 2009.
 
Today, the Company announces that its Board of Directors has authorized a $1 billion share repurchase plan. The authorization will be in place through September 30, 2010, and is subject to extension or expansion at the determination of Visa's Board of Directors.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics for 2010:
 
 
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metrics for 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Visa Inc. provides its financial outlook for the following metric for 2011:
 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2009 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 2:00 p.m. PT (5:00 p.m. ET) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
 
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world, and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding certain of Visa's goals and expectations with respect to adjusted earnings per share, revenue, adjusted operating margin, and free cash flow, and the growth rate in those items, as well as other measures of economic performance.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in Part 1, Item 1A  "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Periodic Reports on Form 8-K, if any. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Paul Cohen or Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Income and Net Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Expenses
US$ in millions
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Non-operating Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
 
Class A Common Stock Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
 
 
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
US$ in millions
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the operational results for the 3 months ended June 30, 2009, as well as the prior seven quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended June 30, 2009 and 2008, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks.
 
 



