FILE:V/V-8K-20090429163111.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 29, 2009, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal 2009 second quarter.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
On April 29, 2009, the Company announced that it intends to file a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On April 29, 2009, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal 2009 second quarter financial results. A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Results and Reaffirms 2009 Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share Guidance
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the company's fiscal second quarter 2009 ended March 31, 2009. On an adjusted basis (reflective of a normalized tax rate, restructuring and purchase amortization), net income for the quarter was $553 million, or $0.73 per diluted class A common share. GAAP net income for the quarter was $536 million, or $0.71 per diluted class A common share. The weighted average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was 753 million. The company's adjusted net income and adjusted diluted net income per class A common share are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, April 29, 2009
Net operating revenue in the fiscal second quarter of 2009 was $1.6 billion, an increase of 13% over the prior year, driven by contributions across all revenue categories. Though slightly negative in the U.S., payments volume continued to grow on a constant dollar basis in all other regions globally. Processed transactions continued to post solid growth globally.
"Despite the challenging economy, Visa continued to post strong operational and financial performance during our fiscal second quarter, and we remain confident in delivering our EPS guidance for FY 2009," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Visa Inc. "While expense management and efficiency remain key priorities, we will continue to carefully right-size our pricing structure and further invest in our business with the intent of driving incremental growth and realizing operating advantages."
"The resiliency in our business reflects the strength of Visa's credit, debit, and prepaid products worldwide, which continue to benefit from the ongoing secular shift from cash and check to electronic forms of payments," added Saunders. "These diverse products, combined with further expansion of our processing capabilities worldwide, should continue to benefit our shareholders, clients, and cardholders in the future."
Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights:
Visa Inc.'s operational performance highlights for the fiscal second quarter, as measured by business activity through December 31, 2008, include:
 
 
 
 
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet through March 31, 2009, totaled 9.4 billion, a 6% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal second quarter 2009, service revenues were $804 million, an increase of over 2% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payment volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 10% over the prior year to $544 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, grew 18% over the prior year to $446 million, as the company benefited from previously enacted pricing initiatives. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $148 million, up 17% over the prior year. Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $295 million, a decline of 13% over the prior year.
Adjusted total operating expenses were $745 million for the fiscal second quarter, a 5% decrease from the prior year's adjusted total operating expenses of $783 million. Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $766 million for the quarter, a 31% decrease from the prior year's total operating expenses of $1.1 billion.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and investment securities were $5.8 billion at March 31, 2009.
Notable Events:
On March 2, 2009, the company unveiled its first global advertising campaign, entitled "More people go with Visa," reflecting the company's evolution to a single, global company. The new campaign enables Visa to align its worldwide marketing under a single theme that highlights the superior value Visa delivers versus cash and checks  including more security, more control and more convenience.
Also in March, MoneyGram International, a leading provider of global payment services, and Visa announced plans to introduce Visa ReadyLink  Visa's prepaid load network  in MoneyGram's 40,000 agent locations across the United States, providing financially underserved consumers with more convenient options to add funds to their Visa reloadable prepaid cards. MoneyGram joins more than 8,000 participating Visa ReadyLink locations, further extending the convenience and security of reload services to Visa prepaid cardholders in more convenient, everyday shopping locations.
 
On April 23, 2009, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly divided in the aggregate amount of $0.105 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on June 2, 2009 to all holders of record of Visa's class A, class B and class C common stock as of May 15, 2009.
Also in April, the Board of Directors approved a program in which class C stockholders may liquidate up to 30% of their class C shares between July 1 and September 30, 2009, subject to certain terms and conditions. The remaining class C shares will continue to be subject to the general transfer restrictions that expire on March 25, 2011 under Visa's certificate of incorporation. Class C shares sold under this program will automatically convert to class A shares, tradable in the public market. The release of the class C shares does not increase the number of outstanding shares of the company and there is no dilutive effect to the outstanding share count from these transactions.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metric for full-year 2009:
 
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metric for full-year 2010:
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2010:
 
 
 
 
This outlook reflects an assumed 40% GAAP tax rate for fiscal year 2009. The company's intent is to reduce this rate to a level around 35-36% over the next four years.
 
Fiscal Second Quarter 2009 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT (2:00 p.m. PDT) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world, and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding certain of Visa's goals and expectations with respect to adjusted earnings per share, revenue, adjusted operating margin, and free cash flow, and the growth rate in those items, as well as other measures of economic performance.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed in Part 1, Item 1A  "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this presentation. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Paul Cohen or Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
 
 
Fiscal 2008 and 2009 Quarterly Results of Operations
US$ in millions
 
 
Adjusted Operating Income and Net Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Expenses
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Non-operating (Expense) Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Class A Common Stock Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
 
 
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
US$ in millions
 
(1) - Adjustments to eliminate the cash impact of non-recurring items.
 
The tables below provide information regarding the operational results for the 3 months ended December 31, 2008, as well as the prior seven quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Payments Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and Cash Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total Volume represents Payments Volume plus Cash Volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports period-over-period growth in Total Volume, Payments Volume and Cash Volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
 
2. Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
N E W S  R E L E A S E
 
 
Visa Inc. Announces Intent to File a Shelf Registration Statement
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) today announced that it intends to file a universal shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Visa anticipates that it will file such registration statement within the next 10 days.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA,
April 29, 2009
Although the Company expects to have the flexibility under the universal shelf to quickly access the capital markets with either equity or debt security offerings, Visa has no immediate plans to issue any such securities.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
Visa operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit
About Visa:
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed in Part 1, Item 1A  "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008 and any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of presentation. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Investor Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2213
E-mail:
ir@visa.com
Will Valentine, Media Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2564
E-mail:
globalmedia@visa.com



