FILE:V/V-8K-20090427092116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 27, 2009, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that its Board of Directors approved a program in which each class C stockholder may liquidate up to 30% of its class C shares held as of July 1, 2009, anytime after that date, subject to certain terms and conditions. The release of the class C shares does not increase the number of outstanding shares of the Company and there is no dilutive effect to the outstanding share count from these transactions. The remaining class C shares will continue to be subject to the general transfer restrictions that expire on March 25, 2011 under Visa's certificate of incorporation. Class C shares sold under this program will automatically convert to class A shares, tradable in the public market. In order to participate in the program, class C stockholders will need to apply to Visa's transfer agent between July 1 and September 30, 2009. Instructions for participating in the program, including its terms and conditions, will be made available to Visa's class C stockholders in June 2009.
A copy of the press release issued on April 27 2009, relating to the accelerated class C share release program, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Visa Inc. Board of Directors Approves Accelerated Class C Share Release Program
 Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) announced today that its Board of Directors approved a program in which each class C stockholder may liquidate up to 30% of its class C shares held as of July 1, 2009, anytime after that date, subject to certain terms and conditions. The release of the class C shares does not increase the number of outstanding shares of the Company and there is no dilutive effect to the outstanding share count from these transactions. The remaining class C shares will continue to be subject to the general transfer restrictions that expire on March 25, 2011 under Visa's certificate of incorporation. Class C shares sold under this program will automatically convert to class A shares, tradable in the public market. In order to participate in the program, class C stockholders will need to apply to Visa's transfer agent between July 1 and September 30, 2009. Instructions for participating in the program, including its terms and conditions, will be made available to Visa's class C stockholders in June 2009.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, April 27, 2009
This press release does not constitute an offer of any securities for sale. This press release contains certain forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements in this press release are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this press release.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys acceptance around the world and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries.
About Visa:
Contacts:
Investor Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2213
E-mail:
ir@visa.com
Will Valentine, Media Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2564
E-mail:
globalmedia@visa.com


