FILE:V/V-8K-20090729162901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2009, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal 2009 third quarter.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On July 29, 2009, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal 2009 third quarter financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Solid Fiscal Third Quarter 2009 Earnings Results and Updates Longer-term Guidance
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal third quarter 2009 ended June 30, 2009. On an adjusted basis (reflective of restructuring and purchase amortization), net income for the quarter was $744 million, or $0.98 per diluted class A common share. Excluding the impact from the sale of the Company's equity interest in VisaNet do Brasil, adjusted quarterly net income was $507 million or $0.67 per diluted class A common share. GAAP net income for the quarter was $729 million, or $0.97 per diluted class A common share. The weighted average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was 756 million. The Company's adjusted net income and adjusted diluted net income per class A common share are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, July 29, 2009
Net operating revenue in the fiscal third quarter of 2009 was $1.6 billion, an increase of 2% over the prior year, driven by contributions across all revenue categories. Though slightly negative in the U.S., payments volume continued to grow on a constant dollar basis in all other regions globally. Processed transactions continued to post solid growth globally.
"With little real improvement in the economic backdrop, Visa still posted solid operational and financial performance results during the fiscal third quarter," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Visa Inc. "Throughout this challenging time, the resiliency of our debit products and our credit products overseas, continue to exemplify the resiliency and stability of our business model."
"While we cannot predict the specific timing of a global economic turnaround, we remain committed to doing our part in delivering balanced growth to our shareholders over the long term," added Saunders. "As we look forward to the remainder of our fiscal 2009 year and beyond, we will remain focused on leveraging our inherent operating scale, maintaining strong financial performance and expense control."
Fiscal Third Quarter 2009 Financial Highlights:
Visa Inc.'s operational performance highlights for the fiscal third quarter, as measured by business activity through March 31, 2009, include:
 
 
 
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet through June 30, 2009, totaled 10.3 billion, an 8% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal third quarter 2009, service revenues were $769 million, an increase of 3% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 12% over the prior year to $605 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, grew 2% over the prior year to $458 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $158 million, up 6% over the prior year. Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $344 million, an increase of 25% over the prior year.
Adjusted total operating expenses were $804 million for the fiscal third quarter, a 9% decrease from the prior year's adjusted total operating expenses of $883 million. Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $824 million for the quarter, a 15% decrease from the prior year.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and investment securities were $6.1 billion at June 30, 2009.
Notable Events:
On June 30, 2009, Visa Inc. entered into a strategic alliance with Monitise plc, a UK based firm, to facilitate the delivery of Visa mobile payments and related services to consumers around the world. Concurrent with the strategic alliance, Visa has agreed to make a minority equity investment in Monitise. Monitise is a recognized expert in mobile financial services that operates payments and mobile banking services for some of the world's leading financial institutions.
On July 1, 2009, Visa Inc. announced that Visa International, its wholly-owned subsidiary, sold 136,478,372 shares of Companhia Brasileira de Meios de Pagamento ("VisaNet do Brasil"), in connection with VisaNet do Brasil's June IPO. Visa's proceeds from the sale, net of underwriter discounts and fees, are approximately US$1 billion based on the then current exchange rates. Visa recorded a GAAP gain from the sale in the quarter ended June 30, 2009, net of tax, of $237 million. The gain reflects net proceeds received in July 2009, in excess of Visa International's recorded book value of $535 million.
 
As previously announced, Visa has initiated a program to allow its class C stockholders to apply (prior to September 30, 2009) for an early termination of the transfer restrictions applicable to class C shares, for up to 30% of the class C shares held by each such stockholder as of July 1, 2009, subject to certain terms and conditions. The remaining class C shares will continue to be subject to the general transfer restrictions that expire on March 25, 2011 under Visa's Certificate of Incorporation. Class C shares sold under this program will automatically convert to class A shares, tradable in the public market. The release of the class C shares does not increase the number of outstanding shares of the Company and there is no dilutive effect to the outstanding share count from these transactions.
On July 16, 2009, as planned, the Company deposited $700 million ("Loss Funds") into the litigation escrow account previously established under the Company's Retrospective Responsibility Plan. The deposit of the Loss Funds into the escrow account reduced the conversion rate applicable to the Company's class B common stock outstanding from 0.6296 per class A share to 0.5824 per class A share. The deposit of Loss Funds has the effect of a repurchase of approximately 11.6 million class A common stock equivalents from the Company's class B shareholders.
On July 22, 2009, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly divided in the aggregate amount of $0.105 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on September 1, 2009 to all holders of record of Visa's class A, class B and class C common stock as of August 14, 2009.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2010:
 
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2010:
 
 
 
 
This outlook reflects an assumed 41% GAAP tax rate for fiscal year 2009, which reflects the tax impact of the Company's sale of its equity interest in VisaNet do Brasil. The Company's intent is to reduce this rate to a level around 35-36% over the next four years.
Fiscal Third Quarter 2009 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT (2:00 p.m. PDT) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world, and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding certain of Visa's goals and expectations with respect to adjusted earnings per share, revenue, adjusted operating margin, and free cash flow, and the growth rate in those items, as well as other measures of economic performance.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed in Part 1, Item 1A  "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2008. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this presentation. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
 
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Paul Cohen, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
 
 
Selected Fiscal 2008 and 2009 Quarterly Results of Operations
US$ in millions
 
 
Adjusted Operating Income and Net Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Operating Expenses
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Adjusted Non-operating Income
US$ in millions
 
 
 
Class A Common Stock Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share
 
 
 
 
Calculation of Free Cash Flow
US$ in millions
 
 
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the operational results for the 3 months ended March 31, 2009, as well as the prior seven quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present Payments Volume, Cash Volume, Total Volume, the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior periods are provided for volume-based data.
Payments Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and Cash Volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total Volume represents Payments Volume plus Cash Volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports period-over-period growth in Total Volume, Payments Volume and Cash Volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
 
2. Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks.
 
 



