FILE:V/V-8K-20090421135411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 21, 2009, at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Visa Inc. (the "Company"), the stockholders approved the following:
 
 
 
A copy of the press release issued on April 21, 2009, relating to the election of directors and the ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
Visa expects to hold its 2010 annual meeting of stockholders on January 20, 2010 (the "Annual Meeting"). Because the expected meeting date for the Annual Meeting represents a change of more than thirty (30) days from the anniversary of our 2009 annual meeting of stockholders held on April 21, 2009, any stockholder proposal that is submitted to be considered for inclusion in our the proxy materials to be distributed for the Annual Meeting, pursuant to Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, must be received by the Company before printing and mailing our proxy materials. We have set the date for receipt of such proposals as the close of business on August 3, 2009. Proposals should be sent to our Corporate Secretary at our principal executive offices, Visa Inc., P.O. Box 8999 San Francisco, California 94128-8999 and must comply with the applicable requirements of Rule 14a-8 regarding the inclusion of stockholder proposals in Company-sponsored proxy materials and our bylaws.
A stockholder proposal not included in our proxy statement for the Annual Meeting will not be eligible for presentation at the Annual Meeting unless the stockholder gives timely notice of the proposal in proper written form to our Corporate Secretary and otherwise complies with the provisions of our bylaws. For a stockholder notice to be timely under our bylaws, it must be delivered to or mailed and received at our principal executive offices at the above address not less than ninety (90) days nor more than one hundred twenty (120) days prior to the stockholders' meeting. Please refer to the full text of our bylaws for additional information about the advance notice provisions and requirements as well as other information required to be in the stockholders' notice.
A copy of our bylaws may be obtained by writing to our Corporate Secretary or by visiting our website at http://www.visa.com.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Visa Inc. Announces Results of Annual Meeting Stockholder Vote
 Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) today held its annual meeting of stockholders in San Francisco, California.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, April 21, 2009
The Company is pleased to announce that the stockholders approved the following:
 
 
 
 Visa operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit
About Visa:
www.corporate.visa.com
Contacts:
Victoria Hyde-Dunn, Investor Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2213
E-mail:
ir@visa.com
Will Valentine, Media Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2564
E-mail:
globalmedia@visa.com


