FILE:V/V-8K-20101027161008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2010, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2010, ended September 30, 2010.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On October 27, 2010 the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2010 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2010 Earnings Results and Authorizes
New $1 Billion Share Repurchase Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2010. For the fourth quarter ending September 30, 2010, GAAP net income was $774 million, an increase of 51% over the prior year. Diluted class A common stock earnings per share were $1.06, an increase of 54% over the prior year. On an adjusted basis (excluding the revaluation of the Company's Visa Europe put option), net income for the quarter was $695 million, an increase of 35% over the prior year. Diluted class A common stock earnings per share were $0.95, an increase of 38% over the prior year.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, October 27, 2010
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2010 was $2.1 billion, an increase of 13% over the prior year and driven by strong contributions across all revenue categories, in particular data processing and international transaction revenues. Currency fluctuations contributed a positive 1% towards quarterly net operating revenues.
GAAP net income for the full-year was $3.0 billion, an increase of 26% over the prior year. Diluted class A common stock earnings per share were $4.01, an increase of 29% over the prior year. GAAP net operating revenue in the full-year was $8.1 billion, an increase of 17% over the prior year and was driven by strong contributions across all revenue categories. Currency fluctuations contributed a positive 1% towards full-year net operating revenues.
On an adjusted basis (excluding the revaluation of the Company's Visa Europe put option), net income for the full-year was $2.9 billion, an increase of 23% over the prior year. Diluted class A common stock earnings per share were $3.91, an increase of 26% over the prior year. The Company's adjusted quarterly and full-year net income per class A common shares outstanding are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables.
 
 
Visa's results for both the fourth fiscal quarter and the full-year reflect the inclusion of CyberSource for the two months after its acquisition.
"We are very pleased with our fourth fiscal quarter and full-year earnings results as we continue to successfully execute on our strategic initiatives while in the midst of a very challenging business environment," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "Our continued focus, execution and resilience have enabled us to continue to generate solid returns and meaningful growth across our business, products and geographies."
"Looking ahead to our fiscal 2011, Visa will continue to invest in initiatives and investments to grow our core and emerging product portfolios globally, innovate into new payments channels and integrate our recent acquisition of CyberSource. We are committed to delivering solid business performance, supporting our financial clients and partners, and delivering above average shareholder returns."
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2010 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis for the three months ended June 30, 2010 on which fiscal fourth quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 14% over the prior year at $802 billion.
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended September 30, 2010, was a positive 14% over the prior year at $828 billion.
Cross border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 16% for the three months ended September 30, 2010.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended September 30, 2010, totaled 12.1 billion and were a positive 16% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal fourth quarter 2010, service revenues were $912 million, an increase of 13% over the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 15% over the prior year to $840 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross border payments volume, grew 22% over the prior year to $619 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $167 million, up 3% over the prior year. Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $421 million and represent 17% of gross revenues.
 
 
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $1 billion for the quarter, a less than 1% decline over the prior year.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $6.0 billion at September 30, 2010.
Visa's GAAP effective tax rate was 38% for quarter ended September 30, 2010, excluding the revaluation of the Visa Europe put option.
Fiscal Full-Year 2010 Financial Highlights:
For the fiscal full-year, service revenues were $3.5 billion, an increase of 10% over the prior year. Data processing revenues rose 29% over the prior year to $3.1 billion. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, grew 20% over the prior year to $2.3 billion. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $713 million, up 14% over the prior year.
Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $1.6 billion and represent 16% of gross revenues.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet for the 12 months ended September 30, 2010, totaled 45.4 billion, a 14% increase over the prior year.
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $3.5 billion for the full-year, a 3% increase over the prior year.
Visa's GAAP effective tax rate was 37% for the twelve months ended September 30, 2010, excluding the revaluation of the Visa Europe put option.
Notable Events:
As previously disclosed, on October 4, 2010, Visa entered into a settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the attorneys general of seven states to resolve antitrust investigations into the Company's merchant acceptance rules in the U.S. The DOJ issued a civil investigative demand to Visa in 2008, seeking information about certain Visa acceptance rules, including those related to surcharging and discounting. Both investigations ended with a consent decree that sets forth the terms of the settlement, subject to court approval. There is no monetary obligation associated with the DOJ settlement.
 
 
On October 8, 2010, the Company deposited $800 million into the litigation escrow account previously established under the Company's retrospective responsibility plan. The deposit into the escrow account reduced the conversion rate applicable to the Company's class B common stock from 0.5550 to 0.5102. On an as-converted basis, the deposit had the effect of a repurchase of approximately 11.0 million shares of class A common stock from the Company's class B shareholders.
On October 20, 2010, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.15 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on December 7, 2010, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of November 19, 2010. In addition, the Company announced it has successfully completed its $1 billion share repurchase plan authorized in October 2009. In the fourth fiscal quarter of 2010, the Company repurchased a total of 4.6 million shares of class A common stock at an average price of $72.29 per share. Under the full plan, a total of 12.9 million shares of class A common stock was repurchased at an average price of $77.48 per share.
Today, the Company announces that its Board of Directors has authorized a new $1 billion class A common stock repurchase plan. The authorization will be in place through September 30, 2011, and is subject to extension or expansion at the determination of Visa's Board of Directors.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metric for 2011:
 
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metric for 2011:
 
Visa Inc. provides its financial outlook for the following metrics for 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2010 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time (2:00 p.m. Pacific time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa Inc.
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networks  VisaNet - that is capable of handling more than 10,000 transactions a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements:
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "outlook," "will" and similar references to the future. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about revenue, incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, earnings per share, free cash flow, tax rate and capital expenditures and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" herein and in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and our most recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement, because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
 
 
 
Fiscal 2009 and 2010 Quarterly Results of Operations
US$ in millions
(unaudited)
 
 
 
 
Adjusted Net Income and Earnings Per Share
US$ in millions, except per share data
Management believes the presentation of adjusted net income and diluted earnings per share provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the periods. The revaluation of the Put option resulted in non-cash, non-operating income during the three months ended September 30, 2010. The reduction in value was primarily the result of declines in Visa's price-to-earnings ratio in the second half of fiscal 2010 and does not reflect any change in the likelihood that Visa Europe will exercise its option. Management therefore believes that the resulting non-operating income is not indicative of Visa's performance in the current or future periods.
 
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended September 30, 2010, as well as the prior four quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Included is a new table with information on the number of billable transactions processed on CyberSource's network. Visa Inc. completed its acquisition of CyberSource Corporation on July 21, 2010.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. For the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Visa Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks. CyberSource transactions are not included in this table. CyberSource transactions are reported in the next section.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
4. CyberSource Transactions
The table below represents billable transactions processed on CyberSource's network that generate revenue for CyberSource.
 
 



