FILE:V/V-8K-20100721161459.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 21, 2010, Visa issued a press release announcing that it had completed its acquisition of CyberSource Corporation, at a price of $26.00 per share of CyberSource common stock, or total consideration of approximately $2.0 billion, to be paid with cash on hand.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
Visa Inc. Completes Acquisition of CyberSource
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) ("Visa") announced today that it had completed its acquisition of CyberSource Corporation (Nasdaq: CYBS), at a price of $26.00 per share of CyberSource common stock, or total consideration of approximately $2.0 billion, to be paid with cash on hand.
San Francisco, CA  July 21, 2010
The acquisition of CyberSource expands Visa's online payment, fraud, and security management capabilities. The combination is expected to accelerate the growth of the eCommerce category and enhance the value of Visa's network, product and service offerings to financial institutions, merchants, partners and consumers.
About Visa
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 10,000 transactions a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit www.corporate.visa.com.
Forward Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the term "expected to" and similar references to the future. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about the growth of the eCommerce category and the value of Visa's network, product and service offerings.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including the risk that CyberSource's business will not be successfully integrated with Visa's business, costs associated with the merger, and the other factors that are discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in Visa's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for its most recent fiscal year. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Visa Inc.
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213, ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 415-932-2564, globalmedia@visa.com


Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
Forward Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as a number of assumptions about future events, and these statements are subject to factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and variations or negatives of these words. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of future performance and are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks, assumptions and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Visa Inc. and CyberSource. The forward-looking statements in this document address a variety of subjects including, for example, the expected date of closing of the acquisition and the potential benefits of the merger. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements: the risk that CyberSource's business will not be successfully integrated with Visa's business; costs associated with the merger; matters arising in connection with the parties' efforts to comply with and satisfy applicable regulatory approvals and closing conditions relating to the transaction; and other events that could adversely impact the completion of the transaction, including industry or economic conditions outside of our control. In addition, actual results are subject to other risks and uncertainties that relate more broadly to Visa Inc.'s overall business, including those more fully described in Visa Inc.'s filings with the SEC including its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, and its quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2010, and CyberSource's overall business and financial condition, including those more fully described in CyberSource's filings with the SEC including its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and its quarterly reports filed on Form 10-Q for the current fiscal year. The forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
 

Exhibit 99.4
 
On July 21, 2010, Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) completed the acquisition of CyberSource Corporation at a price of $26.00 per share, or a total of approximately $2.0 billion, to be paid with cash on hand.
 
CyberSource is an established industry leader in eCommerce payments and plays a role in processing approximately 25 percent of all eCommerce dollars transacted in the United States. Founded in 1994, CyberSource was one of the world's first payment gateways, connecting online merchants to payment networks, including Visa. Today, CyberSource offers a full-service payment management platform for eCommerce merchants, combining global payment connectivity and processing with fraud management and secure payment hosting. These capabilities help merchants increase revenue through global growth while minimizing monetary loss through fraud and provide them with fast and efficient connectivity to payment networks, including Visa. Services are provided through two solution brands, CyberSource (large business) and Authorize.Net (small business).
 
The acquisition of CyberSource is an important step in Visa's commitment to deliver an enhanced value proposition to merchants, financial institutions and consumers. The acquisition will result in a compelling combination whose assets and expertise are expected to support long-term growth by:
 
 
 
 
 
 
For online transactions, CyberSource's technology performs payment routing and is similar to the card swipe machine found in the physical retail world. CyberSource manages the routing of transactions for online merchants, offers automated fraud management solutions, secures payment data storage services and provides a safe and secure connection to a multitude of payment networks, including Visa.
Visa does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. It is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments. Visa provides transaction-based services to our financial institution and merchant customers through VisaNet, our secure, centralized and global processing platform.
 
The company serves more than 300,000 merchants through its CyberSource and Authorize.Net branded solutions. CyberSource clients include medium to large businesses such as British Airways, Gucci Group and Google, while its Authorize.Net solutions serve small businesses with $3 million or less in annual online sales.
 
There will be no disruption to service. CyberSource will continue to provide its industry-leading electronic payment, risk management, and payment security solutions to online merchants large and small. Services will not be restricted to Visa payment products. CyberSource will be able to utilize Visa's financial institution relationships and global presence to drive international expansion of CyberSource's products and services. Customers will ultimately benefit from a broader portfolio of products and services that a combined CyberSource/Visa entity can offer.
 
Visa recognizes that part of CyberSource's success is driven by its strong sales channel with 4,700 resellers and affiliates, and the company has no plans to make substantive changes to CyberSource's Authorize.Net solution, partner programs or operations.
 
The acquisition will accelerate Visa's growth in the eCommerce category, thereby increasing the usage of Visa debit, prepaid and credit products for online purchases. CyberSource's enhanced fraud protection services ensure Visa's consumers safer, more efficient transactions from online merchants. Given that the majority of CyberSource's transactions are currently derived from the U.S., there is tremendous opportunity to expand its services globally, providing increased eCommerce revenue for Visa's clients.
 
CyberSource will operate as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Visa Inc. CyberSource President and CEO Michael Walsh will continue to oversee CyberSource's operations. CyberSource's Executive Chairman and Founder, William McKiernan, will join Visa as an Executive Advisor to assist in the integration of the two businesses. Visa has no plans to make any substantive changes to CyberSource's operations and intends to invest in CyberSource's business and its employees.
 
Please contact your current account executive with additional questions.
Forward Looking Statements
This document contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as a number of assumptions about future events, and these statements are subject to factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements can often be identified by words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "predicts," "believes," "seeks," "estimates," "may," "will," "should," "would," "could," "potential," "continue," "ongoing," similar expressions, and similar expressions. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are not a guarantee of future performance and are subject to a number of uncertainties, risks, assumptions and other factors, many of which are outside the control of Visa Inc. and CyberSource. The forward-looking statements in this document address a variety of subjects including, for example, the potential benefits of the merger and CyberSource's long-term growth. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in these forward-looking statements: the risk that CyberSource's business will not be successfully integrated with Visa's business; costs associated with the merger; the rate of Visa's growth in the eCommerce category; ; the success of CyberSource's international expansion; Visa's ability to draw on its financial relationships and global presence in growing CyberSource; increased merchant need for secure payment data hosting solutions; and the other factors more fully described in Visa Inc.'s filings with the SEC, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009, and its quarterly report filed on Form 10-Q for the first quarter of 2010. The forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of this date. We undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statement, except as required by law.
 


