FILE:V/V-8K-20100722081609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.05
Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a provision of the Code of Ethics.
On July 22, 2010, Visa Inc. (the "Company" or "our") issued a press release announcing that its board of directors had approved and adopted amendments to the Company's Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers to update and clarify roles, responsibilities and accountability and to include a section on waivers.
A copy of the Revised Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers is attached as Exhibit 14.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 8.01
Other Events.
On July 22, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing that its Board had declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.125 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on September 1, 2010, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of August 13, 2010.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 14.1
Revised Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
 
 
Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
 
 
1.0 Purpose
Defines additional specific requirements, beyond the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, to which the Chief Executive Officer and all senior financial officers (including the Chief Financial Officer, the principal accounting officer, controller, and any persons performing similar functions) ("Senior Financial Officers") of Visa Inc. (the "Company") are bound. Designed to promote honest and ethical conduct and compliance with the law, particularly as related to the maintenance of the Company's financial records and the preparation of financial statements, whether or not filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").
2.0 Scope
This Code applies to the Senior Financial Officers of the Company. The obligations of this Code supplement, but do not replace, the Company's Code of Business Conduct and Ethics applicable to all employees.
3.0 Requirements
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
4.0 Waivers
Any request for a waiver of any provision of this Code by any Senior Financial Officer must be in writing and addressed to the Company's Audit and Risk Committee, which shall have the sole and absolute discretionary authority to approve any such waiver. Any waiver and the grounds for such waiver shall be disclosed in accordance with the SEC rules and regulations and New York Stock Exchange rules, as applicable.
5.0 Accountability
The Chief Compliance Officer or their designee is the owner of the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers. The owner of this Code will oversee and administer the Code, develop and maintain the procedures to support the Code, and ensure that Visa employees affected by the Code receive adequate communication and training. The owner of this Code will make recommendations to the Company's Audit and Risk Committee from time to time as to any updates to the Code that may be necessary or appropriate.
 
2

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
Visa Inc. Declares Dividend
 
 
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, July 22, 2010  Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) announced today that its board of directors had declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.125 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on September 1, 2010, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of August 13, 2010.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
About Visa: Visa operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in Part 1, Item 1A  "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Periodic Reports on Form 8-K, if any. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, Investor Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2213
E-mail: ir@visa.com
Will Valentine,
Media Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2564
E-mail: globalmedia@visa.com


