FILE:V/V-8K-20100520161430.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01
Other Events.
On May 20, 2010, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Company had decided to deposit $500 million (the "Loss Funds") into the litigation escrow account previously established under the Company's retrospective responsibility plan (the "Plan"). Under the terms of the Plan, when the Company funds the litigation escrow, its U.S. financial institutions and their affiliates and successors, the sole holders of Class B shares, bear a corresponding financial impact via a reduction in their as-converted share count. As a result, the deposit of Loss Funds has the effect of a repurchase by the Company of $500 million of Class A common stock on an as-converted basis. The deposit of the Loss Funds will be conducted in accordance with the Company's certificate of incorporation currently in effect.
A copy of the press release issued on May 20, 2010, is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Visa Inc. Announces Decision to Fund Litigation Escrow Account
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, May 20, 2010  Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) today announced that the Company had decided to deposit $500 million (the "Loss Funds") into the litigation escrow account previously established under the Company's retrospective responsibility plan (the "Plan"). Under the terms of the Plan, when the Company funds the litigation escrow, its U.S. financial institutions and their affiliates and successors, the sole holders of Class B shares, bear a corresponding financial impact via a reduction in their as-converted share count. As a result, the deposit of Loss Funds has the effect of a repurchase by the Company of $500 million of Class A common stock on an as-converted basis. The deposit of the Loss Funds will be conducted in accordance with the Company's certificate of incorporation currently in effect.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
About Visa: Visa operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit www.corporate.visa.com
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed in Part 1, Item 1A  "Risk Factors" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the most recent fiscal year and any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of presentation. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, Investor Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2213
E-mail: ir@visa.com
Will Valentine, Media Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2564
E-mail: globalmedia@visa.com


