FILE:V/V-8K-20100203161340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 3, 2010, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2009.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On February 3, 2010, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2009 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Solid Fiscal First Quarter 2010 Earnings Results
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal first quarter 2010 ended December 31, 2009. GAAP net income for the quarter was $763 million, or $1.02 per diluted class A common share. The weighted average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was 745 million.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, February 3, 2010
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal first quarter of 2010 was $2.0 billion, an increase of 13% over the prior year and driven by strong contributions across all revenue categories, in particular data processing revenues and international transaction revenues.
"By all measures, Visa's fiscal first quarter was a strong start to the new year, as we continued to execute well against our business plan," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Visa Inc. "We were able to capitalize on the secular trend to digital currency and grow revenues, as we expanded our payments network and processing capabilities to drive transaction growth through effective marketing programs. Even in the midst of the current economic environment, we remain fully committed to assisting our clients through these challenging times and returning excess cash to our shareholders."
Fiscal First Quarter 2010 Financial Highlights:
Visa Inc.'s operational performance highlights as measured by business activity for the three months ended September 30, 2009, include:
 
 
Cross border volume growth, on a constant basis, was positive 2% for the three months ended December 31, 2009.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet for the three months ended December 31, 2009, totaled 10.9 billion, a 12% increase over the prior year.
 
For the fiscal first quarter 2010, service revenues were $827 million, an increase of 4% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 38% over the prior year to $765 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border payments volume, grew 9% over the prior year to $552 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $190 million, up 21% over the prior year. Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $374 million, which represents 16% of gross revenue.
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $743 million for the quarter, a 4% decrease primarily a result of a $41 million pre-tax gain recognized related to the prepayment of the remaining obligations under the Retailers' litigation.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $6.0 billion at December 31, 2009.
Operational Performance Highlight for the Quarter Ended December:
Commencing with this quarter, current payments volume growth and other select metrics will be provided in the operational performance data supplement. Service revenues will continue to be recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter.
Payments volume growth, on a constant basis, for the three months ended December 31, 2009, was a positive 8.5% over the prior year at $769 million.
Notable Events:
In October 2009, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a $1.0 billion share repurchase plan through September 30, 2010, and is subject to extension or expansion at the determination of Visa's Board of Directors. During the first quarter of fiscal 2010, the Company repurchased 5.5 million shares at an average price of $78.78 per share for a total cost of $432 million. At the end of the first fiscal quarter, $568 million remained available for repurchase under the existing repurchase authorization.
On January 20, 2010, the Company held its 2010 annual meeting of stockholders. Stockholders approved the election of five Class III directors and the ratification of the appointment of KPMG LLP as our independent registered public accounting firm for fiscal year 2010. In addition, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly divided in the aggregate amount of $0.125 per share of class A common stock
 
(determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on March 2, 2010 to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of February 12, 2010.
As previously announced, the Board of Directors approved the release of additional class C shares. The number of shares released for any class C shareholder will be the greater of (a) 50% (fifty percent) of the restricted class C shares held by that shareholder as of March 1, 2010, and (b) 5,000 (five thousand) class C shares. The shares will automatically become eligible for public sale on March 8, 2010. The remaining restricted class C shares will continue to be subject to the general transfer restrictions that expire on March 25, 2011, under Visa's certificate of incorporation. Class C shares sold in the public market upon release under this program will automatically convert to class A shares. Approximately 56 million class C shares are expected to be released from transfer restrictions. The release of the class C shares will not increase the number of outstanding shares on an as-converted basis of the Company's common stock, and there will be no dilutive effect to the outstanding class A common stock share count on an as-converted basis.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metrics for 2010:
 
 
 
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2010:
 
 
 
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2011:
 
 
Fiscal First Quarter 2010 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. EDT (2:00 p.m. PDT) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world, and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "anticipate," "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "plan," "potential," "predict," "project," "should," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding certain of Visa's goals and expectations with respect to earnings per share, revenue, operating margin, free cash flow, and the growth rate in those items, as well as other measures of economic performance.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in Part 1, Item 1A  "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Periodic Reports on Form 8-K, if any. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Paul Cohen or Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
 
 
Fiscal 2009 and 2010 Quarterly Results of Operations
US$ in millions
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended December 31, 2009, as well as the prior seven quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, and September 30, 2009 and 2008, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. For the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks.
 
 



