FILE:V/V-8K-20101115160655.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously mentioned, beginning in fiscal year 2011, Visa Inc. (the "Company") changed its income statement presentation for non-Visa transaction pass-through revenues and expenses from a "gross" reporting basis to a "net" reporting basis. Previously, pass-through revenues were booked to data processing and related expenses were booked to the network, EDP and communications line item on the Company's consolidated statement of operations. This change in presentation does not impact operating income or net income attributable to Visa Inc. as revenue and expense amounts completely offset.
The following table represents the amounts related to non-Visa transactions recorded in data processing revenues and network, EDP and communications expenses on a quarterly basis in fiscal year 2010:
 
In addition, during fiscal year 2010, the Company began transitioning issuers to direct billing for the Visa Extras rewards platform, whereby an outside service provider bills the issuer directly for rewards and fulfillment services. Further, a large issuer converted away from the rewards platform in June 2010. As a result of these changes in contractual arrangements, $89 million of other revenues and advertising, marketing and promotion expenses recorded in the Company's fiscal year 2010 consolidated statement of operations will not recur in fiscal year 2011. These changes do not impact operating income or net income attributable to Visa Inc. as revenue and expense amounts completely offset.
The following table represents the amounts related to Visa Extras activity recorded in other revenues and advertising, marketing and promotion expenses on a quarterly basis in fiscal year 2010:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


