FILE:V/V-8K-20100120134152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 20, 2010, at the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders, the stockholders approved the following:
 
 
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Visa Inc. Announces Results of Stockholders Annual Meeting Vote
 Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) today held its annual meeting of stockholders in San Francisco, California.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, January 20, 2010
The Company is pleased to announce that the stockholders approved the following:
 
 
 Visa Inc. is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 10,000 transactions a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank, and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: Pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit www.corporate.visa.com
About Visa:
Contacts:
Victoria Hyde-Dunn, Investor Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2213
E-mail:
ir@visa.com
Will Valentine, Media Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2564
E-mail:
globalmedia@visa.com


