FILE:V/V-8K-20100728161255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 28, 2010, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2010.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On July 28, 2010 the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2010 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Earnings Results
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal third quarter 2010 ended June 30, 2010. GAAP net income for the quarter was $716 million, or $0.97 per diluted class A common share. The weighted average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was 738 million.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, July 28, 2010
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal third quarter of 2010 was $2.0 billion, an increase of 23% over the prior year and driven by strong contributions across all revenue categories, in particular data processing and international transaction revenues.
"Visa delivered a solid financial performance during our fiscal third quarter as we saw continued improvements in global cross border and payments volume growth," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Visa Inc. "As we look to the remainder of our fiscal 2010 year, we remain focused on integrating our recent acquisition of CyberSource, maintaining strong financial performance and expense control discipline."
"It goes without saying, the United States debit market will undergo changes following implementation of the Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act next year," added Saunders. "While it is too early to fully and accurately gauge the impact of the legislation, Visa has demonstrated an ability to manage our business through periods of change. The global shift from cash and checks to digital currency is a powerful force that continues unabated, providing tangible benefits to consumers, merchants, and governments worldwide. I continue to have strong confidence in our prospects for long-term growth driven by Visa's highly resilient network business model, our continued investment in innovation and the expansion of our global reach."
Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis for the three months ended March 31, 2010 on which fiscal third quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 13% over the prior year at $745 billion.
 
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended June 30, 2010, was a positive 14% over the prior year at $803 billion.
Cross border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 17% for the three months ended June 30, 2010.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended June 30, 2010 totaled 11.7 billion, were a positive 14% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal third quarter 2010, service revenues were $873 million, an increase of 13% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 31% over the prior year to $792 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross border payments volume, grew 25% over the prior year to $574 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $183 million, up 15% over the prior year. Volume and support incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $393 million, which represents 16% of gross revenues.
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $892 million for the quarter, an 8% increase over the prior year.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $7.4 billion at June 30, 2010.
Notable Events:
On May 28, 2010, the Company deposited $500 million (the "Loss Funds") into the litigation escrow account previously established under the Company's Retrospective Responsibility Plan. The deposit of the Loss Funds into the escrow account reduced the conversion rate applicable to the Company's class B common stock from 0.5824 to 0.5550. On an as-converted basis, the deposit of Loss Funds had the effect of a repurchase of approximately 6.7 million shares of class A common stock from the Company's class B shareholders.
On July 21, 2010, the Company completed its acquisition of CyberSource Corporation, a leading provider of electronic payment, risk management and payment security solutions to online merchants, at a price of $26.00 per common share, or total consideration of approximately $2.0 billion paid with cash on hand. With the addition of CyberSource, Visa will offer merchants and financial institutions eCommerce solutions that include enhanced online payment processing capabilities, payment routing, fraud protection services and secure data hosting.
 
On July 22, 2010, the Company announced that the 2011 annual meeting of stockholders will be held on January 27, 2011 (the "Annual Meeting"), with a record date of December 3, 2010. The Company's stockholders at the close of business on the record date will be entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting.
In addition, the Company announced that its board of directors had unanimously voted to declassify the board and to submit a proposal at the Annual Meeting to amend the Company's certificate of incorporation to eliminate the classification of the board of directors. The board of directors also unanimously voted to amend the Company's certificate of incorporation, bylaws and corporate governance guidelines to adopt a majority vote standard for uncontested elections of directors and to submit a proposal to amend the Company's certificate of incorporation to allow for the adoption of the majority vote standard. The changes to the bylaws and corporate governance guidelines are contingent on stockholder approval of the amendments to the certificate of incorporation.
Also, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly divided in the aggregate amount of $0.125 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on September 1, 2010, to all holders of record of Visa's class A, class B and class C common stock as of August 13, 2010.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metrics for 2010:
 
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2011:
 
 
Fiscal Third Quarter 2010 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time (2:00 p.m. Pacific time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa Inc.
Visa Inc. operates the world's largest retail electronic payments network providing processing services and payment product platforms. This includes consumer credit, debit, prepaid and commercial payments, which are offered under the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Visa enjoys unsurpassed acceptance around the world, and Visa/PLUS is one of the world's largest global ATM networks, offering cash access in local currency in more than 170 countries. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements:
Certain statements contained in this press release are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are subject to the "safe harbor" created by those sections. These statements can be identified by the terms "outlook," "continue," "will" and similar expressions which are intended to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any underlying assumptions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements regarding certain of Visa's goals and expectations with respect to tax rate, capital expenditures, revenue, incentives, expenses, operating margin, earnings per share, free cash flow, and the growth rate in those items, as well as other measures of economic performance.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are not guarantees of future performance or results and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors, including all the risks discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in Part 1, Item 1A  "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Periodic Reports on Form 8-K, if any. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Paul Cohen or Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Operations
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited)
 
 
Visa Inc.
Consolidated Statements Of Cash Flows
(unaudited)
 
 
Fiscal 2009 and 2010 Quarterly Results of Operations
US$ in millions
(unaudited)
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended June 30, 2010, as well as the prior seven quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. For the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks.
 
 



