FILE:V/V-8K-20110208173036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 7, 2011, in connection with the Omnibus Agreement described below, Visa Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Consent to Amendment of Loss Sharing Agreement (the "LSA Amendment ") with respect to the Loss Sharing Agreement dated as of July 1, 2007, among Visa U.S.A. Inc. ("Visa U.S.A."), Visa International Service Association ("Visa International"), the Company and various financial institutions, as amended and restated in the Amended and Restated Loss Sharing Agreement dated as of December 16, 2008 (the "Loss Sharing Agreement"). The LSA Amendment amended the Loss Sharing Agreement to include each of the parties to the LSA Amendment as a party to the Loss Sharing Agreement, with the parties to the LSA Amendment other than Visa U.S.A. Inc., Visa International Service Association and the Company to be treated as "Contributing Members," as that term is used in the Loss Sharing Agreement. A Form of the Loss Sharing Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Amendment No. 1 to the Company's July 2007 registration statement on Form S-4 (the "S-4") and is incorporated herein by reference. A schedule identifying the parties to the Loss Sharing Agreement, after giving effect to the LSA Amendment, is filed as Exhibit 10.1 attached hereto.
On February 7, 2011, in connection with the Omnibus Agreement described below, the Company entered into a Consent to Amendment of Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement (the "JSA Amendment") with respect to the Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement dated as of July 1, 2007, among Visa U.S.A., Visa International and various financial institutions, as amended and restated in the Amended and Restated Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement dated as of December 16, 2008 (the "Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement"). The JSA Amendment amended the Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement to include each of the parties to the JSA Amendment as a Signatory to the Judgment Sharing Agreement. A Form of the Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.11 to Amendment No. 1 to the Company's July 2007 S-4 and is incorporated herein by reference. A schedule identifying the parties to the Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement, after giving effect to the JSA Amendment, is filed as Exhibit 10.2 attached hereto.
 
On February 7, 2011, the Company, Visa U.S.A., Visa International, MasterCard Incorporated, MasterCard International Incorporated and the other financial institutions party thereto entered into an Omnibus Agreement Regarding Interchange Litigation Judgment Sharing and Settlement Sharing (the "Omnibus Agreement").
The Omnibus Agreement confirms and memorializes the signatories' intentions with respect to the Loss Sharing Agreement, the Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement and other agreements relating to certain interchange litigation relating to claims (together with the Loss Sharing Agreement and the Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement, the "Sharing Agreements") asserted based on
 
 
 
 
Under the Omnibus Agreement:
 
 
 
 
The Visa portion of a settlement or judgment covered by the Omnibus Agreement would be allocated in accordance with specified provisions of the Company's retrospective responsibility plan (which has been disclosed previously), pursuant to which Visa generally would fund any payments through a reduction in its Class B share conversion rate and, if necessary, through contractual and corporate indemnity provisions provided by the financial institution members of Visa U.S.A.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
The Loss Sharing Agreement (the "Original LSA"), dated as of July 1, 2007, among Visa U.S.A. Inc., Visa International Service Association, Visa Inc. (the "Company"), and various financial institutions was substantially identical in all material respects to the Form of the Loss Sharing Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Amendment No. 1 to the Company's July 2007 registration statement on Form S-4. The Original LSA was amended and restated in the Amended and Restated Loss Sharing Agreement dated as of December 16, 2008 (as amended and restated, the "Loss Sharing Agreement"), to give effect to the Company's ability to deposit Loss Funds into the Escrow Account as provided for in the Company's Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and as described in the Company's Proxy Statement, dated November 14, 2008, and to remove provisions that were no longer applicable as a result of the Company's successful initial public offering. On February 7, 2011, the Company entered into the Consent to Amendment of Loss Sharing Agreement (the "LSA Amendment "), to amend the Loss Sharing Agreement to include each of the parties to the LSA Amendment as a party to the Loss Sharing Agreement, with the parties to the LSA Amendment other than Visa U.S.A. Inc., Visa International Service Association, and the Company to be treated as "Contributing Members," as that term is used in the Loss Sharing Agreement. As a result of the LSA Amendment, the parties to the Loss Sharing Agreement are:
Bank of America Corporation
Barclays Bank Delaware
Capital One Financial Corporation
Citibank (South Dakota), N.A.
Fifth Third Bancorp
First National of Nebraska, Inc.
HSBC Finance Corporation
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc., successor by merger to National City Corporation
Suntrust Banks, Inc.
Texas First Bank
U.S. Bancorp
Wells Fargo & Co.
Wells Fargo & Co., as successor to Wachovia Corporation
Washington Mutual, Inc.
Visa Inc.
Visa International Service Association
Visa U.S.A. Inc.

Exhibit 10.2
The Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement (the "Original JSA"), dated as of July 1, 2007, among Visa U.S.A. Inc., Visa International Service Association and various financial institutions was substantially identical in all material respects to the Form of the Judgment Sharing Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.12 to Amendment No. 1 to the Company's July 2007 registration statement on Form S-4. The Original LSA was amended and restated in the Amended and Restated Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement dated as of December 16, 2008 (as amended and restated, the "Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement"), to give effect to the Company's ability to deposit Loss Funds into the Escrow Account as provided for in the Company's Fifth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and as described in the Company's Proxy Statement, dated November 14, 2008. On February 7, 2011, Visa Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Consent to Amendment of Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement (the "JSA Amendment "), to amend the Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement to include each of the parties to the JSA Amendment as a Signatory to the Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement. After giving effect to the JSA Amendment, the parties to the Interchange Judgment Sharing Agreement are:
Bank of America, N.A., MBNA America (Delaware), FIA Card Services N.A. (f/k/a Bank of America, N.A. (USA) and
MBNA America Bank, N.A.), Bank of America Corporation, and NB Holdings Corporation
BA Merchant Services LLC (F/k/a National Processing, Inc.),
Barclays Bank plc, Barclays Financial Corp., and Barclays Bank Delaware
Capital One Bank, (USA), N.A., Capital One, F.S.B, Capital One, N.A., Capital One Financial Corporation
Chase Bank USA, N.A.
Citibank (South Dakota), N.A., Citibank, N.A., Citicorp, and Citigroup, Inc.
Fifth Third Bancorp
First National of Nebraska, Inc. and
First National Bank of Omaha
HSBC Finance Corporation
HSBC Bank USA, N.A.
HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
HSBC Bank plc
HSBC Holdings plc
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as acquirer of certain assets and liabilities of Washington Mutual Bank from the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation acting as receiver
PNC Bank, National Association, successor by merger to National City Bank and National City Bank of Kentucky
The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc, successor by merger to National City Corporation
Suntrust Banks, Inc.
Texas Independent Bancshares, Inc.
U.S. Bank, N.A., and U.S. Bancorp
Wells Fargo & Co.
Wells Fargo Bank N.A.
Wells Fargo & Co., as successor to Wachovia Corporation
Wells Fargo Bank N.A., as successor to Wachovia Bank, N.A.
Visa U.S.A. Inc.
Visa International Service Association
Visa Inc.


