FILE:V/V-8K-20110706160606.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01
Regulation FD Disclosure.
Based on the recent release by the Federal Reserve of the final regulations implementing the Durbin amendment to the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for select metrics through fiscal 2011 and provides its financial outlook for select metrics for fiscal 2012.
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through fiscal 2011:
 
 
Visa Inc. provides its financial outlook for the following metrics for fiscal 2012:
 
 
Additionally, the Company reported that it had completed its $1 billion share repurchase program authorized in April 2011. This resulted in the repurchase of approximately 13 million shares at an average price of approximately $77 per share.
Today at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time (1:30 p.m. Pacific Time) the Company will host a brief conference call to discuss its financial outlook. All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at .
http://investor.visa.com
The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Forward-Looking Statements
This submission contains forwardlooking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "affirm, "outlook" and similar references to the future. Examples of such forwardlooking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about net revenue, earnings per share and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10K on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forwardlooking statement, because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


