FILE:V/V-8K-20110127162559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 27, 2011, Visa Inc. (the "Company") announced that its Board of Directors had declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.15 per share of class A common stock (determined, in the case of class B and class C common stock, on an as-converted basis) payable on March 1, 2011, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of February 11, 2011.
The Company also announced that its Board of Directors had approved the release from transfer restrictions of all remaining class C shares. The shares will automatically become eligible for public sale on February 7, 2011. Approximately 55 million class C shares not previously released are to be released from transfer restrictions. The release of the class C shares will not increase the number of outstanding shares of the Company, and there will be no dilutive effect to the outstanding class A share count. Class C shares sold into the public market automatically convert to class A shares.
A copy of the press release issued on January 27, 2011 is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Visa Inc. Board of Directors Declares Dividend and Approves Release of All Remaining Class C Shares
 Visa Inc. (NYSE:V) announced that its Board of Directors had declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.150 per share of class A common stock (determined, in the case of class B and class C common stock, on an as-converted basis) payable on March 1, 2011, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of February 11, 2011.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, January 27, 2011
The Company also announced that its Board of Directors had approved the release from transfer restrictions of all remaining class C shares. The shares will automatically become eligible for public sale on February 7, 2011. Approximately 55 million class C shares not previously released are to be released from transfer restrictions. The release of the class C shares will not increase the number of outstanding shares of the Company, and there will be no dilutive effect to the outstanding class A share count. Class C shares sold into the public market automatically convert to class A shares.
Visa Inc. is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 20,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank, and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: Pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit www.corporate.visa.com
About Visa:
Contacts:
Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, Investor Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2213
E-mail:
ir@visa.com
Will Valentine, Media Relations
Visa Inc.
Tel: +1 415 932 2564
E-mail:
globalmedia@visa.com


