FILE:V/V-8K-20111026161059.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 26, 2011, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and full-year, ended September 30, 2011.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On October 26, 2011 the Company will host a conference call to discuss for its fiscal fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2011 Earnings Results and Increases Existing Share Repurchase Program by $1 Billion
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2011. For the fourth quarter ending September 30, 2011, GAAP net income was $880 million, an increase of 14% over the prior year. GAAP diluted class A common stock earnings per share were $1.27 - an increase of 20% over the prior year on a GAAP basis, or an increase of 34% over the prior year on an adjusted basis (excluding the revaluation of the Company's Visa Europe put option). The weighted-average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was approximately 692 million.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, October 26, 2011
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2011 was $2.4 billion, an increase of 13% over the prior year and driven by strong contributions across all revenue categories. Currency fluctuations contributed 2 percentage points of growth towards quarterly net operating revenues.
On an adjusted basis (excluding the revaluation of the Company's Visa Europe put option), net income for the full-year was $3.5 billion, an increase of 22% over the prior year. On an adjusted basis, diluted class A common stock earnings per share were $4.99, an increase of 28% over the prior year on an adjusted basis.
GAAP net income for the full-year was $3.6 billion, inclusive of the revaluation of the Company's Visa Europe put option. Diluted class A common stock earnings per share were $5.16. The Company's adjusted quarterly and full-year net income per class A common share outstanding are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables. The weighted-average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was approximately 707 million.
 
GAAP net operating revenue for the full-year was $9.2 billion, an increase of 14% over the prior year and driven by double-digit revenue growth contributions from service, data processing and international transaction revenues. Currency fluctuations contributed 2 percentage points of growth towards full-year net operating revenues.
"Visa continues to deliver strong results, with fourth quarter and full year performance reflecting a business that is both resilient and flexible enough to adapt and flourish in a changing business environment," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Visa Inc.
"Throughout the quarter and the year, we have been diligent in our efforts to grow our core business, while successfully unlocking new revenue opportunities through strategic investments, both in our core business and into innovations that will ensure our foundation for future growth remains strong. This foundation will allow us to effectively drive transactions, pursue global growth in new markets and provide our clients with innovative ways to provide safe electronic payments to their customers."
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended June 30, 2011, on which fiscal fourth quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 14% over the prior year at $941 billion.
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended September 30, 2011, was a positive 13% over the prior year at $970 billion.
Cross border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 15% for the three months ended September 30, 2011.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended September 30, 2011, were 13 billion, a positive 9% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal fourth quarter 2011, service revenues were $1.1 billion, an increase of 21% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 10% over the prior year to $925 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross border payments volume, grew 23% over the prior year to $758 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $171 million, a 3% increase over the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $576 million and represents 19.5% of gross revenues.
 
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $1 billion for the quarter, a 2% increase over the prior year and included approximately $30 million in restructuring expenses.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $6.9 billion at September 30, 2011.
Visa's GAAP effective tax rate was 35% for the quarter ended September 30, 2011.
Fiscal Full-Year 2011 Financial Highlights:
For the fiscal full-year 2011, service revenues were $4.3 billion, an increase of 22% over the prior year. Data processing revenues rose 11% over the prior year to $3.5 billion. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross border payments volume, grew 17% over the prior year to $2.7 billion. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $655 million, an 8% decrease over the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $1.9 billion and represent 17% of gross revenues.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet for the 12 months ended September 30, 2011, totaled 51 billion, a 12% increase over the prior year.
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $3.7 billion for the full-year, a 7% increase over the prior year.
Visa's GAAP effective tax rate was 36% for the twelve months ended September 30, 2011, excluding the revaluation of the Visa Europe put option.
Notable Events:
During the three months ended September 30, 2011, the Company repurchased approximately 5.2 million class A common shares, at an average price of $80.87 per share, for a total cost of $423 million.
As announced on October 19, 2011, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.22 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on December 6, 2011, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of November 18, 2011.
 
Today, the Company announces that its Board of Directors has authorized a $1 billion increase to its previously announced $1 billion share repurchase program. The authorization will be in place through July 20, 2012, and is subject to further change at the discretion of the Board.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2012:
 
 
Visa Inc. provides its financial outlook for the following metrics for 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Outlook excludes impact of possible non-cash revaluation of deferred tax liabilities, which could decrease the GAAP tax rate to 30 to 31%. These deferred tax liabilities are primarily associated with indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded as part of Visa's October 2007 reorganization.
*
Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time (2:00 p.m. Pacific time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
 
About Visa
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 20,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements:
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "believe," "continue," "could," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "potential," "project," "should," "will," and similar references to the future. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about our earnings per share, cash flow, revenue, incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, tax rate and capital expenditures and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" herein. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
FISCAL 2010 AND 2011 QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
US$ in millions
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
 
Adjusted Net Income and Earnings Per Share
US$ in millions, except per share data
Management believes the presentation of adjusted net income and diluted earnings per share provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the periods. The revaluation of the Visa Europe put option during the third fiscal quarter resulted in non-cash, non-operating income during fiscal 2011. The reduction in the fair value of the put option was primarily the result of declines in our estimated long-term price-to-earnings ratio and does not reflect any change in the likelihood that Visa Europe will exercise its option. Management therefore believes that the resulting non-operating income is not indicative of Visa's performance in the current or future periods.
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended September 30, 2011, as well as the prior four quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Also included is a table with information on the number of billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Effective with the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Visa Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks. CyberSource transactions are not included in this table, and are reported in the next section.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
4. CyberSource Transactions
The table below represents billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
 
 



