FILE:V/V-8K-20110505161103.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 5, 2011, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended March 31, 2011.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On May 5, 2011 the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal second quarter ended March 31, 2011 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results and Authorizes New $1 Billion Share Repurchase Program
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal second quarter 2011 ended March 31, 2011. GAAP net income for the quarter was $881 million, or $1.23 per diluted class A common share. The weighted-average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was approximately 714 million.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, May 5, 2011
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal second quarter of 2011 was $2.2 billion, an increase of 15% over the prior year and driven by strong double-digit growth in service revenues, data processing revenues and international transaction revenues. Currency fluctuations contributed a positive 2% towards quarterly net operating revenues.
"Visa delivered a solid financial performance in our fiscal second quarter with double-digit growth in payments volume, cross border volume and Visa-processed transactions from across the globe," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Visa Inc. "With a strong first half of our fiscal 2011 year behind us, we remain focused on driving continued transaction growth, maintaining strong financial performance and expense control discipline, and delivering value to our shareholders through share repurchase programs and dividend payments."
"In addition to working with our financial institutions and merchant clients to expand card issuance and acceptance for our core products, we are investing in new platforms, channels and technologies that will deliver value to our clients and consumers for years to come," continued Saunders. "The global adoption of mobile and internet technology presents an enormous opportunity for Visa to leverage our network and proven track record of delivering electronic payments worldwide."
Fiscal Second Quarter 2011 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended December 31, 2010, on which fiscal second quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 15% over the prior year at $897 billion.
 
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2011, was a positive 13% over the prior year at $861 billion.
Cross border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 13% for the three months ended March 31, 2011.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended March 31, 2011, were 12 billion, a positive 13% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal second quarter 2011, service revenues were $1.1 billion, an increase of 24% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 13% over the prior year to $823 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross border payments volume, grew 14% over the prior year to $624 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $156 million, a 10% decrease over the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $451 million and represents 17% of gross revenues.
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $862 million for the quarter, a 3% increase over the prior year.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $6.6 billion at March 31, 2011.
Visa's GAAP effective tax rate was 36% for quarter ended March 31, 2011.
Notable Events:
During the three months ended March 31, 2011, the Company effectively repurchased approximately 8.7 million class A shares on an as-converted basis, at an average price of $72.58 per share, for a total cost of $630 million. Of the $630 million, $400 million of class B shares were effectively repurchased through the March funding of the litigation escrow account previously established under the Company's retrospective responsibility plan, representing 5.4 million class A shares on an as-converted basis at an average price of $73.81 per share. The remaining $230 million in repurchases of class A common stock were executed in the open market, representing 3.3 million shares at an average price of $70.53 per share. At March 31, 2011, the October 27, 2010 share repurchase program had remaining authorized funds of $64 million.
 
As announced on April 25, 2011, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.15 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on June 7, 2011, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of May 20, 2011.
Today, the Company announces that its Board of Directors has authorized a new $1 billion class A share repurchase program. The authorization will be in place through April 20, 2012, and is subject to further change at the discretion of the Board.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time (2:00 p.m. Pacific time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days. Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 20,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer
 
consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements:
This press release contains forwardlooking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "expect," "will," "continue" and similar references to the future. Examples of such forwardlooking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about gross and net revenue, incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, tax rate, earnings per share, capital expenditures, free cash flow and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10K and our most recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10Q for the first and second quarters of our 2011 fiscal year on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless
 
required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forwardlooking statement, because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
FISCAL 2010 AND 2011 QUARTERLY RESTULTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended March 31, 2011, as well as the prior four quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended March 31, 2011 and 2010, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Included is a table with information on the number of billable transactions processed on CyberSource's network. Visa Inc. completed its acquisition of CyberSource Corporation on July 21, 2010.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Effective with the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Visa Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks. CyberSource transactions are not included in this table. CyberSource transactions are reported in the next section.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
4. CyberSource Transactions
The table below represents billable transactions processed on CyberSource's network that generate revenue for CyberSource.
 
 



