FILE:V/V-8K-20110727161113.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2011, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2011.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On July 27, 2011 the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2011 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results and Authorizes New $1 Billion Share Repurchase Program
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal third quarter 2011 ended June 30, 2011. GAAP net income for the quarter, inclusive of a non-cash, non-operating gain related to the Company's revaluation of its Visa Europe put option, was $1.0 billion.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, July 27, 2011
On an adjusted basis, which excludes the revaluation of the Company's Visa Europe put option, net income for the quarter was $883 million, an increase of 23% over the prior year, and diluted class A common stock earnings per share were $1.26, an increase of 29% over the prior year. The weighted-average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was approximately 704 million. The Company's adjusted quarterly net income per class A common shares outstanding is a non-GAAP financial measure that is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal third quarter of 2011 was $2.3 billion, an increase of 14% over the prior year and driven by strong double-digit growth in service revenues, data processing revenues and international transaction revenues. Currency fluctuations contributed two percentage points of growth towards quarterly net operating revenues.
"Visa delivered another quarter of strong financial and operational performance as we benefitted from growth in global payments volume, and solid cross border and processed transaction growth," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Visa Inc. "As we address the new regulatory landscape, we are prepared to deliver on our financial goals and remain an industry leading growth company in the global transactions space."
"Visa is a diverse global enterprise, with strong positions in both developed and emerging markets around the world, and we are committed to further diversifying our business and accelerating growth in key
 
markets worldwide," said Saunders. "We are executing on our growth strategy, investing heavily in innovation and taking important steps to bring new products and solutions to our partners and consumers."
Fiscal Third Quarter 2011 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2011, on which fiscal third quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 13% over the prior year at $862 billion.
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended June 30, 2011, was a positive 13% over the prior year at $941 billion.
Cross border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 14% for the three months ended June 30, 2011.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended June 30, 2011, were 13 billion, a positive 11% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal third quarter 2011, service revenues were $1.1 billion, an increase of 21% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 12% over the prior year to $886 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross border payments volume, grew 15% over the prior year to $662 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $167 million, a 10% decrease over the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $448 million and represents 16% of gross revenues.
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $977 million for the quarter, a 10% increase over the prior year.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $6.7 billion at June 30, 2011.
Visa's effective tax rate was 38% for the quarter ended June 30, 2011, excluding the revaluation of the Visa Europe put option.
 
Notable Events:
On June 6, 2011, the Company acquired Fundamo, a leading platform provider of mobile financial services for mobile network operators and financial institutions in developing economies, for total consideration of approximately $110 million paid with cash on hand. In addition, the Company announced a new, long-term commercial agreement with Monitise plc, a leading provider of mobile money solutions for financial institutions in more developed geographies. The combination of acquiring Fundamo and expanding the relationship with Monitise will enable Visa to deliver best-in-class mobile financial services and payments capabilities to consumers across the full spectrum of uses, geographies and mobile environments from basic services on simple handsets to more advanced services for smart phone owners.
During the quarter, the Company received regulatory approval for the sale of its 10 percent investment in Visa Vale issuer Companhia Brasileira de Solues e Servios, or CBSS, to Banco do Brasil and Bradesco. This resulted in a pre-tax gain, net of transaction costs, of $85 million recognized in the investment income net line on the consolidated statements of operations. The amount of the gain net of tax was $44 million.
During the three months ended June 30, 2011, the Company repurchased approximately 13.7 million class A common shares, at an average price of $77.36 per share, for a total cost of $1.1 billion.
As announced on July 22, 2011, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.15 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on September 7, 2011, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of August 19, 2011.
Today, the Company announces that its Board of Directors has authorized a new $1 billion class A share repurchase program. The authorization will be in place through July 20, 2012, and is subject to further change at the discretion of the Board.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metric for 2011:
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2012:
 
 
Fiscal Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time (2:00 p.m. Pacific time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days. Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 20,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements:
This press release contains forwardlooking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "expect," "will," "continue" and similar references to the future. Examples of such forwardlooking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about gross and net revenue, client incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, tax rate, earnings per share, capital expenditures, free cash flow and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10K. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forwardlooking statement, because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
FISCAL 2010 AND 2011 QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended June 30, 2011, as well as the prior four quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Also included is a table with information on the number of billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Effective with the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Visa Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks. CyberSource transactions are not included in this table and are reported in the next section.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
4. CyberSource Transactions
The table below represents billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
 
 



