FILE:V/V-8K-20110202161116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2011, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2010.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On February 2, 2011 the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2010 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal First Quarter 2011 Earnings Results
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal first quarter 2011 ended December 31, 2010. GAAP net income for the quarter was $884 million, or $1.23 per diluted class A common share. The weighted average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding was approximately 719 million.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, February 2, 2011
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal first quarter of 2011 was $2.2 billion, an increase of 14% over the prior year and driven by strong double-digit growth in service revenues, data processing revenues and international transaction revenues. Currency fluctuations contributed a positive 1% towards quarterly net operating revenues.
"Visa's first quarter was a great start to our fiscal 2011 as evidenced by strong earnings fueled by continued growth in payments volume, cross border volume and processed transactions globally  our core business," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Visa Inc.
"Visa is in a strong position to continue to accelerate the migration to electronic payments, particularly in economies where cash and check remain predominant. We are intensely focused on growing Visa's revenue globally, working alongside our financial institution, merchant, technology and government partners. In parallel, we are aggressively investing to expand Visa payment services through new technology platforms, like mobile, eCommerce and money transfer, to extend the reach and value of our global network."
Fiscal First Quarter 2011 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended September 30, 2010, on which fiscal first quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 14% over the prior year at $829 billion.
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended December 31, 2010, was a positive 15% over the prior year at $897 billion.
Cross border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 15% for the three months ended December 31, 2010.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended December 31, 2010, were 13 billion, a positive 15% increase over the prior year.
 
For the fiscal first quarter 2011, service revenues were $1.0 billion, an increase of 22% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 10% over the prior year to $844 million. International transaction revenues, which are principally driven by cross border payments volume, grew 14% over the prior year to $630 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $161 million, a 15% decrease over the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $405 million and represents 15% of gross revenues.
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $872 million for the quarter, a 17% increase over the prior year.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $6.5 billion at December 31, 2010.
Visa's GAAP effective tax rate was 36% for quarter ended December 31, 2010.
Notable Events:
During the three months ended December 31, 2010, the Company effectively repurchased approximately 15.3 million shares at an average price of $72.08 per share, for a total cost of $1.1 billion. Of the $1.1 billion, $800 million of shares were effectively repurchased through the October funding of the litigation escrow account previously established under the Company's retrospective responsibility plan. On an as-converted basis, 11 million shares of class A common stock were effectively repurchased at $72.74 per share. The balance of the repurchase, $306 million of class A common stock, was executed in the open market and totaled 4.3 million shares at an average price of $70.40 per share. These purchases were made under the previously announced $1.0 billion share repurchase plan, as authorized by the Company's board of directors. At December 31, 2010, the share repurchase plan had remaining authorized funds of $694 million.
As previously announced, on January 26, 2011, the Company's wholly-owned subsidiary, Visa International sold its 10 percent stake in Visa Vale issuer CBSS to Banco do Brasil and Bradesco. CBSS will continue to issue Visa Vale prepaid cards in Brazil and Visa expects no disruption to cardholder service as a result of this transaction. Visa's proceeds from the sale were $103 million. The sale is subject to regulatory approval by Brazil's Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econmica.
 
On January 27, 2011, the Company held its 2011 annual meeting of stockholders. Among other proposals, stockholders approved the immediate declassification of the Board of Directors, approved implementation of a majority vote standard in uncontested elections of directors (effective at the 2012 annual meeting), approved compensation of the Company's named executive officers as described in the Company's proxy statement (on an advisory basis) and selected an annual advisory vote on executive compensation (on an advisory basis).
In addition, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had approved a class C share release program, in which all remaining 55 million class C shares will become eligible for sale on February 7, 2011. Class C shares sold in the public market upon release will automatically convert to class A common stock. The release of the class C shares will not increase the number of outstanding shares on an as-converted basis of the Company's common stock, and there will be no dilutive effect to the outstanding class A common stock share count on an as-converted basis. Also, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.15 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on March 1, 2011, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of February 11, 2011.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal First Quarter 2011 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time (2:00 p.m. Pacific time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days. Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
http://investor.visa.com
 
About Visa
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networks  VisaNet - that is capable of handling more than 20,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements:
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "expect," "will," "continue" and similar references to the future. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about the disposition of Visa Vale, gross and net revenue, incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, tax rate, earnings per share, capital expenditures, free cash flow and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and our most recent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement, because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
VISA INC.
SELECTED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
SELECTED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
Fiscal 2010 and 2011 Quarterly Results of Operations
US$ in millions
(unaudited)
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended December 31, 2010, as well as the prior four quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Included is a table with information on the number of billable transactions processed on CyberSource's network. Visa Inc. completed its acquisition of CyberSource Corporation on July 21, 2010.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Effective with the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Visa Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks. CyberSource transactions are not included in this table. CyberSource transactions are reported in the next section.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
4. CyberSource Transactions
The table below represents billable transactions processed on CyberSource's network that generate revenue for CyberSource.
 
 



