FILE:V/V-8K-20120725161101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 25, 2012, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2012.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On July 25, 2012, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal third quarter ended June 30, 2012 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results and Authorizes New $1 Billion Share Repurchase Program
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal third quarter 2012 ended June 30, 2012. On a GAAP basis, the Company reported a net loss of $1.8 billion, inclusive of a litigation provision of $4.1 billion, related to the previously announced settlement agreement in the Multi-District Litigation case. Visa's share will be paid from the previously funded litigation escrow account established pursuant to the Company's Retrospective Responsibility Plan.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, July 25, 2012
Excluding the litigation provision of $4.1 billion and related tax benefit, adjusted net income for the quarter was $1.1 billion, or $1.56 per diluted class A common share, an increase of 25% over the prior year on an adjusted basis. The adjusted weighted-average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding during the third quarter was 675 million. The Company's adjusted quarterly net income per share of class A common stock is a non-GAAP financial measure that is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal third quarter of 2012 was $2.6 billion, an increase of 10% over the prior year and driven by strong double-digit growth in service revenues, data processing revenues and international transaction revenues. There was no significant impact on current quarter results related to the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar over the prior year.
"Visa once again reported solid global growth in payments volume, cross border transactions and processed transactions outside the U.S., executing on our strategy of growing the electronification of payments worldwide. We are pleased that we were able to come to a resolution in the merchant litigation which was acceptable to most parties while ensuring the long-term health of the U.S. payments industry," said Joseph Saunders, chairman and chief executive officer of Visa Inc. "As we look forward, we remain focused on launching new payment solutions and products for our financial and merchant partners and consumers, while supporting the Visa brand and the advancement of electronic payments."
 
Fiscal Third Quarter 2012 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2012, on which fiscal third quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 11% over the prior year at $958 billion.
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended June 30, 2012, was a positive 6% over the prior year at $979 billion.
Cross-border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 14% for the three months ended June 30, 2012.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended June 30, 2012, were 13.1 billion, a positive 1% increase over the prior year.
Fiscal third quarter 2012 service revenues were $1.2 billion, an increase of 15% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 17% over the prior year to $1.0 billion. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border activity, grew 13% over the prior year to $748 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $175 million, a 7% increase over the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $614 million and represent 19% of gross revenues.
The Company recorded a $4.1 billion pre-tax provision, or $2.9 billion on an after-tax basis, in the fiscal third quarter of 2012. This represents the Company's financial portion in the settlement of the Multi-District Litigation case.
Excluding the litigation provision, total operating expenses increased 10% to $1.1 billion during the fiscal third quarter, primarily due to higher personnel expense and professional fees associated with investments in technology projects to support our growth initiatives.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $9.4 billion at June 30, 2012.
Excluding the litigation provision and the related tax benefit, the Company's adjusted effective tax rate was 29.2% for the quarter ended June 30, 2012. The Company's adjusted effective tax rate is a non-GAAP financial measure that is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
 
Notable Events:
During the three months ended June 30, 2012, the Company repurchased approximately 4.0 million class A common shares, at an average price of $115.51 per share, for a total cost of $461 million.
As announced on July 13, 2012, the Company, MasterCard and U.S. financial institution defendants signed a memorandum of understanding to enter into a settlement agreement to resolve the Class Plaintiffs' claims in the Multi-District Litigation case, and announced an agreement in principle to settle with the individual plaintiffs whose claims were consolidated into the case for pre-trial purposes. The proposed settlement payments for both the Class and individual claims would be approximately $6.6 billion, of which Visa's share would represent approximately $4.4 billion. Visa's share will be paid from the litigation escrow account established pursuant to the Company's Retrospective Responsibility Plan.
As announced on July 19, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.22 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on September 4, 2012, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of August 17, 2012.
The Company's Board of Directors has authorized a new $1 billion class A share repurchase program. The authorization will be in place through July 2013, and is subject to further change at the discretion of the Board.
On July 24, 2012, the Company deposited $150 million into the litigation escrow account previously established under its Retrospective Responsibility Plan. Under the terms of the plan, when the Company funds the litigation escrow account, the value of the Company's class B shares  which are held by U.S. financial institutions and their affiliates and successors  is correspondingly adjusted via a reduction in the class B shareholders' as-converted share count. The $150 million deposit by the Company reduced the number of common shares outstanding on an as-converted basis from 104,452,843 to 103,257,583. The funding calculations were conducted in accordance with the Company's certificate of incorporation using the volume-weighted average price over the 3-day pricing period from July 19, 2012, through July 23, 2012. As a result of the deposit, the conversion rate applicable to the Company's class B common stock has decreased from 0.4254 to 0.4206 as of July 24, 2012.
 
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metric through 2012:
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics for 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
*Financial Outlook excludes (i) the impact of the litigation provision and related tax benefit recorded in Q3 2012; and (ii) a non-cash benefit related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities recorded in the tax provision during Q2 2012. These deferred tax liabilities are primarily associated with indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded as part of Visa's October 2007 reorganization. Including the net impact of the litigation provision and remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities, the annual GAAP tax rate is expected to be between 30  31%.
Fiscal Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time (2:00 p.m. Pacific Time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights. All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days. Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 20,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
 
Forward Looking Statements:
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "continue," "could," "may," "subject to," and similar references to the future. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about the settlement of the multi-district interchange litigation and about our revenue, earnings per share, incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, tax rate, capital expenditures and free cash flow and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement, because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
FISCAL 2011 AND 2012 QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Results
US$ in millions, except margin ratio and per share data
During the third quarter of fiscal 2012, we recorded a provision related to litigation subject to the retrospective responsibility plan of $4.1 billion and related tax benefits ("litigation provision adjustment"). Additionally, our reported financial results for the nine months ended June 30, 2012 benefited from a one-time non-cash adjustment of $208 million related to the remeasurement of our net deferred tax liabilities ("deferred tax adjustment") recorded in our income tax provision during the three months ended March 31, 2012. The deferred tax adjustment has no cash impact to us.
During the third quarter of fiscal 2011, we recorded a decrease of $122 million in the fair value of the Visa Europe put option ("revaluation of the Visa Europe put option"), which resulted in the recognition of non-cash, non-operating other income in our financial results. These amounts are not subject to income tax and therefore have no impact on our reported income tax provision. We believe the presentation of adjusted financial results excluding the litigation provision adjustment, the deferred tax adjustment, and the revaluation of the Visa Europe put option provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the respective periods.
 
 
 
VISA INC.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Results
US$ in millions, except effective tax rate
The following table presents our adjusted effective income tax rates for the three and nine months ended June 30, 2012, which excludes the impact of the covered litigation provision of $4.1 billion recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2012, and the one-time, non-cash benefit, of $208 million, resulting from the remeasurement of our net deferred tax liabilities in the second quarter of fiscal 2012. We believe the presentation of our adjusted effective income tax rates provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for these periods. We believe the covered litigation provision and the one-time non-cash adjustment to remeasure our deferred taxes recorded in our effective income tax rates are not indicative of our financial performance in the current or future periods.
 
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended June 30, 2012, as well as the prior four quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Also included is a table with information on the number of billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Effective with the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Visa Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks. CyberSource transactions are not included in this table, and are reported in the next section.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
4. CyberSource Transactions
The table below represents billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
 
 



