FILE:V/V-8K-20120502161151.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 2, 2012, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended March 31, 2012.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On May 2, 2012, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal second quarter ended March 31, 2012 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal second quarter 2012 ended March 31, 2012. GAAP net income for the quarter, inclusive of a one-time non-cash benefit related to the remeasurement of existing net deferred tax liabilities, was $1.3 billion.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, May 2, 2012
On an adjusted basis, excluding this non-cash benefit, net income for the quarter was $1.1 billion, an increase of 23% over the prior year, and diluted class A common stock earnings per share were $1.60, an increase of 30% over the prior year. The weighted-average number of diluted class A common stock outstanding was approximately 676 million. The Company's adjusted quarterly net income per share of class A common stock is a non-GAAP financial measure that is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the accompanying financial tables.
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal second quarter of 2012 was $2.6 billion, an increase of 15% over the prior year and driven by strong double-digit growth in service revenues, data processing revenues and international transaction revenues.
"Our strong financial performance this quarter was fueled by continued growth of U.S. credit products, strong cross border spending and expansion of Visa's core business in international markets," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Visa Inc. "Across the globe Visa's business continues to expand at a healthy pace, the result of our commitment to continued expansion in our core business as well as our ability to leverage innovative payment technologies."
Fiscal Second Quarter 2012 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended December 31, 2011, on which fiscal second quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 11% over the prior year at $993 billion.
 
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2012, was a positive 11% over the prior year at $956 billion.
Cross-border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 16% for the three months ended March 31, 2012.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended March 31, 2012, were 13 billion, a positive 8% increase over the prior year.
Fiscal second quarter 2012 service revenues were $1.2 billion, an increase of 13% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 12% over the prior year to $922 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border activity, grew 17% over the prior year to $733 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $179 million, a 14% increase over the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $497 million and represent 16% of gross revenues.
Total operating expenses were $972 million for the quarter, a 13% increase over the prior year, primarily due to higher personnel costs associated with acquisitions and investments in technology projects to support our growth initiatives.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $8.9 billion at March 31, 2012.
Visa's GAAP effective tax rate was 19.7% for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. On an adjusted basis, the effective tax rate was 32.6%.
Notable Event:
As announced on April 26, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.22 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on June 5, 2012, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of May 18, 2012.
 
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metric through 2012:
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics for 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Outlook excludes the impact of a non-cash benefit related to the remeasurement of deferred tax liabilities, which would decrease the GAAP tax rate to 29 to 30%. These deferred tax liabilities are primarily associated with indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded as part of Visa's October 2007 reorganization.
*
Fiscal Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time (2:00 p.m. Pacific Time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights. All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at . A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days. Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 20,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
 
Forward Looking Statements:
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "continue," "could," "may," "potential," and similar references to the future. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about our strategy and its execution and about our revenue, earnings per share, incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, tax rate, capital expenditures and free cash flow and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement, because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
Adjusted Net Income and Earnings Per Share
US $ in millions, except per share data
During the three months ended March 31, 2012, the state of California approved certain changes to its state tax apportionment rules, effective retroactively to the beginning of fiscal 2012, which lowered our overall state tax rate. As a result, in our income tax provision for the three months ended March 31, 2012, we recorded a one-time, non-cash benefit of $208 million resulting from the remeasurement of our existing net deferred tax liabilities primarily associated with $11 billion of indefinite-lived intangible assets previously recorded to reflect our reorganization in 2007. This adjustment has no cash impact to us. Management therefore believes that the resulting net income recorded is not indicative of Visa's financial performance in the current or future periods. Management believes the presentation of adjusted net income and adjusted diluted earnings per share provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the periods.
 
 
 
Adjusted Effective Tax Rate
As discussed on the previous page, during the three months ended March 31, 2012, we recorded a one-time, non-cash benefit resulting from the remeasurement of our existing net deferred tax liabilities. This adjustment has no cash impact to us. Management therefore believes that the resulting benefit recorded in our effective income tax rates is not indicative of our financial performance in the current or future periods. Management believes the presentation of our adjusted effective income tax rates provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for these periods.
 
 
 
VISA INC.
FISCAL 2011 AND 2012 QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended March 31, 2012, as well as the prior four quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Also included is a table with information on the number of billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Effective with the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Visa Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks. CyberSource transactions are not included in this table, and are reported in the next section.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
4. CyberSource Transactions
The table below represents billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
 
 



