FILE:V/V-8K-20120911082610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
In anticipation of investor discussions around payments volume, cross border volume and processed transactions growth at the Deutsche Bank db Access 2012 Technology Conference on Tuesday, September 11, 2012, Visa is providing selected data for July and August 2012.
For the month of July 2012, U.S. aggregate payments volume growth was negative 1% versus U.S. aggregate payments volume for the prior year period. Further broken down, U.S. credit payments volume growth was positive 7% and debit payments volume growth was negative 8%. Cross border volume growth on a constant dollar basis was positive 9% globally over the prior year period. Processed transactions growth was positive 2% globally over the prior year period.
For the month of August 2012, U.S. aggregate payments volume growth was positive 2% versus U.S. aggregate payments volume for the prior year period. Further broken down, U.S. credit payments volume growth was positive 12% and debit payments volume growth was negative 6%. Cross border volume growth on a constant dollar basis was positive 13% globally over the prior year period. Processed transactions growth was positive 2% globally over the prior year period.
The information in this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


