FILE:V/V-8K-20121031160901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 31, 2012, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for the Company's fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2012, ended September 30, 2012.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On October 31, 2012, the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2012 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2012 Adjusted Earnings Results and Announces New $1.5 billion Share Repurchase Program
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal fourth quarter and full-year 2012. Adjusted quarterly and full-year net income per class A common share outstanding are non-GAAP financial measures that are reconciled to their most directly comparable GAAP measures in the accompanying financial tables. On an adjusted basis, the Company's financial results reflect the impact of special items that are either non-recurring, have no cash impact or are related to amounts covered by the retrospective responsibility plan.
Foster City, CA, October 31, 2012
GAAP net income in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2012 was $1.7 billion or diluted class A common stock earnings per share of $2.47. Adjusted net income in the fiscal fourth quarter was $1.0 billion or diluted class A common stock earnings per share of $1.54, excluding a special item related to the reversal of previously recorded tax reserves which increased net income by $627 million. The weighted-average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding in the fiscal fourth quarter was 672 million.
GAAP net income for the full-year 2012 was $2.1 billion, which included several special items: a one-time non-cash deferred tax adjustment of $208 million during the fiscal second quarter; a covered litigation provision of $4.1 billion and related tax benefits during the fiscal third quarter; and the reversal of previously recorded tax reserves which totaled $627 million during the fiscal fourth quarter. Diluted class A common stock earnings per share was $3.16. On an adjusted basis, excluding the aforementioned special items, net income for the full-year 2012 was $4.2 billion, an increase of 19% over the prior year. Adjusted diluted class A common stock earnings per share was $6.20, an increase of 24% over the prior year. The weighted-average number of diluted class A common shares outstanding for the full year was 678 million.
 
GAAP net operating revenue in the fiscal fourth quarter of 2012 was $2.7 billion, an increase of 15% over the prior year. Currency fluctuations contributed a negative 1 percentage point of growth towards quarterly net operating revenues.
GAAP net operating revenue for the full-year of 2012 was $10.4 billion, an increase of 13% over the prior year and driven by double-digit revenue growth contributions from service, data processing and international transaction revenues. There was no significant impact on full-year results related to the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar over the prior year.
"Visa delivered strong financial performance for the fourth quarter and full year, a result of our focus on growing our core business, accelerating expansion of our business outside the U.S and investing in next-generation technologies that will define the future of payments," said Joseph Saunders, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Visa Inc.
"With our solid record of growth and sound strategy, Visa has a strong foundation for continued long-term growth as technology-enabled change continues to shape our global market. We will continue to invest in new technologies that will help our financial institution clients expand their businesses, add incremental value to the merchant community, and forge new revenue opportunities for both Visa and our partners. We see extraordinary opportunity for growth in the payments industry."
Fiscal Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended June 30, 2012, on which fiscal fourth quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 6% over the prior year at $978 billion.
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended September 30, 2012, was a positive 6% over the prior year at $1 trillion.
Cross-border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 10% for the three months ended September 30, 2012.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended September 30, 2012, were 14 billion, a positive 2% increase over the prior year.
For the fiscal fourth quarter 2012, service revenues were $1.3 billion, an increase of 14% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 15% over the prior year to
 
$1.1 billion. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border volume, grew 5% over the prior year to $796 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $172 million, flat compared to the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $563 million and represent 17% of gross revenues.
Total operating expenses on a GAAP basis were $1.2 billion for the quarter, an 18% increase over the prior year.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $10.5 billion at September 30, 2012.
Fiscal Full-Year 2012 Financial Highlights:
For the fiscal full-year 2012, service revenues were $4.9 billion, an increase of 14% over the prior year. Data processing revenues rose 14% over the prior year to $4.0 billion. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border volume, grew 13% over the prior year to $3.0 billion. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $704 million, a 7% increase over the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $2.2 billion and represent 17% of gross revenues.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet for the 12 months ended September 30, 2012, totaled 53 billion, a 5% increase over the prior year.
Excluding the litigation provision recorded in the fiscal third quarter of 2012, total adjusted operating expenses increased 12% over the prior year to $4.2 billion.
Excluding special items, the Company's adjusted tax rate was 32.9% for the twelve months ended September 30, 2012.
Notable Events:
Total as-converted class A common stock was reduced by 2.5 million shares during the three months ended September 30, 2012, which was funded from $324 million of our operating cash on hand. Of the $324 million, $174 million was used to repurchase class A common stock in the open market. In addition, we deposited $150 million from our operating cash into the litigation escrow account previously established under the retrospective responsibility plan. This deposit has the same economic effect on earnings per share as repurchasing the Company's class A common stock as it reduces the as-converted class B common stock share count.
 
As announced on October 24, 2012, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.33 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on December 4, 2012, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of November 16, 2012.
The Board of Directors has authorized a new $1.5 billion class A share repurchase program. The authorization will be in place through October 2013, and is subject to further change at the discretion of the Board.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. provides its financial outlook for the following metrics for fiscal 2013:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fiscal Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time (2:00 p.m. Pacific time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights.
All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days.
http://investor.visa.com.
Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at
http://investor.visa.com.
About Visa
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable electronic payments. We operate one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 24,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit
www.corporate.visa.com.
 
Forward Looking Statements:
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "continue," "expect," "will," "see," and similar references to the future. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about our revenue opportunities and about our revenue, earnings per share, incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, tax rate, capital expenditures and free cash flow and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K on file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement, because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Victoria Hyde-Dunn, 650-432-7644,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 650-432-2990,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
FISCAL 2012 AND 2011 QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial ResultsFull Year
US$ in millions, except margin ratio and per share data
Our financial results for fiscal 2012 and 2011 were impacted by several special items that we believe are not indicative of our financial performance in the current or future years, as they are either non-recurring, have no cash impact or are related to amounts covered by the retrospective responsibility plan. As such, we believe the presentation of adjusted financial results excluding the following amounts provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the periods presented.
 
 
 
 
The following table presents our adjusted financial results for the years ended September 30, 2012 and 2011
.
(1)
 
 
 
VISA INC.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial ResultsEffective Tax Rate
US$ in millions, except effective tax rate
Our financial results for fiscal 2012 reflect the impact of several special items that we believe are not indicative of our financial performance in the current or future years, as they are either non-recurring, have no cash impact or are related to amounts covered by the retrospective responsibility plan. As such, we have presented our adjusted effective income tax rate in the table below, which we believe provides a clearer understanding of our operating performance for the fiscal year. Our adjusted effective income tax rate for fiscal 2012 excludes: the reversal of previously recorded tax reserves and accrued interest associated with uncertainties related to the deductibility of covered litigation expense; additional covered litigation provision recorded; and a one-time, non-cash benefit from the remeasurement of existing net deferred tax liabilities attributable to changes in the California state apportionment rules.
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended September 30, 2012, as well as the prior four quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended September 30, 2012 and 2011, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Also included is a table with information on the number of billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Visa Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks. CyberSource transactions are not included in this table, and are reported in the next section.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
4. CyberSource Transactions
The table below represents billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
 
 



