FILE:V/V-8K-20120208161101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instructions A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 8, 2012, Visa Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2011.
A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. All information in the press release is furnished but not filed.
On February 8, 2012 the Company will host a conference call to discuss its fiscal first quarter ended December 31, 2011 financial results.
A copy of the presentation to be used during the conference call is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. All information in the presentation is furnished but not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Visa Inc. Posts Strong Fiscal First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results and Authorizes New $500 Million Share Repurchase Program
 
 
 
 
 
 Visa Inc. (NYSE: V) today announced financial results for the Company's fiscal first quarter 2012 ended December 31, 2011. Net income for the quarter was $1.0 billion, or $1.49 per share of diluted class A common stock, an increase of 21% over the prior year. The weighted-average number of diluted class A common stock outstanding was 690 million.
SAN FRANCISCO, CA, February 8, 2012
Net operating revenue in the first quarter of fiscal 2012 was $2.5 billion, an increase of 14% over the prior year and driven by strong double-digit growth in service revenues, data processing revenues and international transaction revenues. Currency fluctuations contributed a positive 1% towards quarterly net operating revenues.
"Visa's core businesses drove a strong start to fiscal 2012. We achieved solid financial and operational performance as we continued to benefit from the secular shift to electronic payments. Consumers' desire to use our products is evident in the strong growth we see outside the U.S. and the resiliency we are seeing in the U.S. in the wake of debit regulation, said Joe Saunders, chairman and chief executive officer. "We are in the midst of executing on our strategy to address the new landscape in the United States and we are pleased with the early results of our efforts."
"
"We remain intensely focused on further growing our international business, partnering with financial institutions, merchants, technology providers and governments," said Saunders. "At the same time, we are moving forward on our innovation strategy and are working side by side with our financial institution and merchant clients to deliver the products and solutions that best drive our mutual success."
 
Fiscal First Quarter 2012 Financial Highlights:
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended September 30, 2011, on which fiscal first quarter service revenue is recognized, was a positive 13% over the prior year at $971 billion.
Payments volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, for the three months ended December 31, 2011, was a positive 11% over the prior year at $994 billion.
Cross-border volume growth, on a constant dollar basis, was a positive 13% for the three months ended December 31, 2011.
Total processed transactions, which represent transactions processed by VisaNet, for the three months ended December 31, 2011, were 13.6 billion, a positive 8% increase over the prior year.
Fiscal first quarter 2012 service revenues were $1.2 billion, an increase of 14% versus the prior year, and are recognized based on payments volume in the prior quarter. All other revenue categories are recognized based on current quarter activity. Data processing revenues rose 13% over the prior year to $951 million. International transaction revenues, which are driven by cross-border activity, grew 19% over the prior year to $748 million. Other revenues, which include the Visa Europe licensing fee, were $178 million, an 11% increase over the prior year. Client incentives, which are a contra revenue item, were $481 million and represent 16% of gross revenues.
Total operating expenses were $929 million for the quarter, a 7% increase over the prior year.
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and available-for-sale investment securities were $7.9 billion at December 31, 2011.
Visa's effective tax rate was 36% for the quarter ended December 31, 2011.
 
Notable Events:
Total as-converted class A common stock was reduced by 16.2 million shares during the three months ended December 31, 2011, which was funded from $1.6 billion of our operating cash on hand. Of the $1.6 billion, $75 million was used to repurchase class A common stock in the open market. In addition, we deposited $1.57 billion from our operating cash into the litigation escrow account previously established under the retrospective responsibility plan. This deposit has the same economic effect on earnings per share as repurchasing the Company's class A common stock as it reduces the as-converted class B common stock share count. The deposit reduced by an equivalent amount funds previously allocated to the amended July 2011 share repurchase program, which had no remaining authorized funds as of December 31, 2011.
Today, the Company announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a new $500 million class A share repurchase program. The authorization will be in place through February 1, 2013, and is subject to further change at the discretion of the Board.
On January 31, 2012, the Company held its 2012 annual meeting of stockholders. Stockholders approved all the proposals enumerated in the Company's proxy statement.
The Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend in the aggregate amount of $0.22 per share of class A common stock (determined in the case of class B and class C common stock on an as-converted basis) payable on March 6, 2012, to all holders of record of the Company's class A, class B and class C common stock as of February 17, 2012.
Financial Outlook:
Visa Inc. updates its financial outlook for the following metrics through 2012:
 
 
Visa Inc. affirms its financial outlook for the following metrics for 2012:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial Outlook excludes the impact of possible non-cash revaluation of deferred tax liabilities, which could decrease the GAAP tax rate to 30 to 31%. These deferred tax liabilities are primarily associated with indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded as part of Visa's October 2007 reorganization.
*
Fiscal First Quarter 2012 Earnings Results Conference Call Details:
Visa's executive management team will host a live audio webcast beginning at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time (2:00 p.m. Pacific time) today to discuss the financial results and business highlights. All interested parties are invited to listen to the live webcast at A replay of the webcast will be available on the Visa Investor Relations website for 30 days. Investor information, including supplemental financial information, is available on Visa Inc.'s Investor Relations website at .
http://investor.visa.com.
http://investor.visa.com
About Visa
Visa is a global payments technology company that connects consumers, businesses, financial institutions and governments in more than 200 countries and territories to fast, secure and reliable digital currency. Underpinning digital currency is one of the world's most advanced processing networksVisaNetthat is capable of handling more than 20,000 transaction messages a second, with fraud protection for consumers and guaranteed payment for merchants. Visa is not a bank and does not issue cards, extend credit or set rates and fees for consumers. Visa's innovations, however, enable its financial institution customers to offer consumers more choices: pay now with debit, ahead of time with prepaid or later with credit products. For more information, visit .
www.corporate.visa.com
Forward Looking Statements:
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the terms "continue," "could," "may," "potential," and similar references to the future. Examples of such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements we make about our strategy and its execution and about our revenue, earnings per share, incentive payments, expenses, operating margin, tax rate, capital expenditures and free cash flow and the growth of those items.
By their nature, forward-looking statements: (i) speak only as of the date they are made, (ii) are neither statements of historical fact nor guarantees of future performance and (iii) are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict or quantify. Therefore, actual results could differ materially and adversely from those forward-looking statements because of a variety of factors, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 -  system developments, such as:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other factors discussed in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should not place undue reliance on such statements. Unless required to do so by law, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statement, because of new information or future developments or otherwise.
Contacts:
Investor Relations: Jack Carsky or Anson Villaluz, 415-932-2213,
ir@visa.com
Media Relations: Will Valentine, 415-932-2564,
globalmedia@visa.com
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
VISA INC.
FISCAL 2011 AND 2012 QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
(UNAUDITED)
 
 
 
The tables below provide information regarding the available operational results for the 3 months ended December 31, 2011, as well as the prior four quarterly reporting periods and the 12 months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Also included is a table with information on the number of billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
1. Branded Volume and Transactions
The tables present total volume, payments volume, and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
 
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
Footnote
The preceding tables present regional total volume, payments volume and cash volume, and the number of payments transactions, cash transactions, accounts and cards for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands. Card counts include PLUS proprietary cards. Nominal and constant dollar growth rates over prior years are provided for volume-based data.
Payments volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of purchases made with cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron and Interlink brands for the relevant period; and cash volume represents the aggregate dollar amount of cash disbursements obtained with these cards for the relevant period and includes the impact of balance transfers and convenience checks; but excludes proprietary PLUS volume. Total volume represents payments volume plus cash volume.
Visa payment products are comprised of credit and debit programs, and data relating to each program is included in the tables. Debit programs include Visa's signature based and Interlink (PIN) debit programs.
The data presented is reported quarterly by Visa's members on their operating certificates and is subject to verification by Visa. On occasion, members may update previously submitted information.
Visa's CEMEA region is comprised of countries in Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Effective with the 3 months ended September, 2009, Pakistan and Afghanistan were moved from the AP to CEMEA region. Several European Union countries in Central Europe, Israel and Turkey are not included in CEMEA. LAC is comprised of countries in Central and South America and the Caribbean. Rest of World includes Asia Pacific, Canada, CEMEA and LAC.
Information denominated in U.S. dollars is calculated by applying an established U.S. dollar/local currency exchange rate for each local currency in which Visa Inc. volumes are reported ("Nominal USD"). These exchange rates are calculated on a quarterly basis using the established exchange rate for each quarter. To eliminate the impact of foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. dollar in measuring performance, Visa Inc. also reports year-over-year growth in total volume, payments volume and cash volume on the basis of local currency information ("Constant USD"). This presentation represents Visa's historical methodology which may be subject to review and refinement.
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
2. Cross Border Volume
The table below represents cross border volume growth for cards carrying the Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS brands. Cross border volume refers to payments and cash volume where the issuing country is different from the merchant country.
 
3. Visa Processed Transactions
The table below represents transactions involving Visa, Visa Electron, Interlink and PLUS cards processed on Visa's networks. CyberSource transactions are not included in this table, and are reported in the next section.
 
 
Operational Performance Data
 
 
4. CyberSource Transactions
The table below represents billable transactions processed on Visa Inc.'s CyberSource network.
 
 



