FILE:CVX/CVX-8K-20051212193614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01.
Entry into a Definitive Material Agreement
On December 7, 2005, the Board of Directors of Chevron Corporation ("Company") approved amendments to the Chevron Corporation Change In Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for E-Level Salary Grades ("ESP") and the Chevron Corporation Benefit Protection Program ("BPP"). The amendments (1) reduce the executive severance payment under the ESP from 3-times base salary plus target bonus to 2.5-times base salary plus target bonus; (2) cap the excise tax and gross-up payment to the executive under the BPP at 2.99 times the employee's base amount as defined by Internal Revenue Code Section 280G; and (3) change the name of the ESP to the Chevron Corporation Change In Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 41 and Above. The changes are only applicable to eligible executives and have no applicability for the broad-based employee population. The amended and restated ESP and BPP are attached as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, to this Current Report and are incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, the Board approved amendments to the Management Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation (the "MIP"), the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "LTIP"), and the Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees (the "DCP") to add a provision affecting grants under the plans made on or after June 29, 2005. Under the amendments, the administrator of each plan has the sole discretion, if a plan participant engages in misconduct (as defined in each plan), to subject outstanding grants to forfeiture, to subject the proceeds from exercised option grants less the purchase price to forfeiture and to require repayment of awards. In addition, the definition of misconduct in each of the LTIP, MIP and DCP has been amended to include conduct beyond actions that require an accounting restatement due to material noncompliance and include disclosing Company proprietary information or intellectual property, failing to return Company property upon termination of employment, engaging in competition with the Company within twelve months following termination of employment, failing to inform a new employer of the former Company employee's confidentiality obligations, inducing Company employees or customers to cease work or breach a contract with the Company, engaging in conduct that is not in good faith and interferes with the Company's business or reputation and committing embezzlement, fraud or theft with respect to Company property. The amended and restated MIP, LTIP and DCP are attached as Exhibits 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5, respectively, to this Current Report and are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02.
Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
On December 7, 2005, the Board of Directors elected Linnet F. Deily to the Board of Directors to be effective as of January 24, 2006. A copy of the press release dated December 7, 2005 announcing the election of Ms. Deily is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
                (d)    Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.2
     
Section 1.
Establishment and Purpose
.
     This Chevron Corporation Benefit Protection Program was established effective March 29, 2000 by action of the Board of Chevron Corporation and amended and restated effective December 7, 2005. The purpose of the Program is to protect certain benefits provided to employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries against elimination or reduction in the event of a Change in Control. In addition, the Program is designed to provide individuals who are eligible to receive awards under the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan compensation to offset any excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
     
Section 2.
Definitions
.
     (a)     "" means the independent accountants retained by the Company most recently prior to the Change in Control.
Accountants
     (b)     "" means the period commencing six months prior to the public announcement of a proposed transaction which, when effected, is a Change in Control and ending on the date which is two years after the date of a Change in Control.
Benefit Protection Period
     (c)     "" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
Board
     (d)     "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Article VI of the bylaws of the Corporation, as such bylaws may be amended from time to time.
Change in Control
     (e)     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     (f)     "" means Chevron Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation.
Corporation
     (g)     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 of the Program.
Equalization Amount
     (h)     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 of the Program.
Excise Tax
     (i)     "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 of the Program.
Payment
     (j)     "" means this Chevron Corporation Benefit Protection Program.
Program
     (k)     "" means any corporation or entity in which the Corporation directly or indirectly controls more than 50% of the total voting power of all classes of its stock having voting powers and which the Board has designated as a Subsidiary for purposes of the Program.
Subsidiary
 
     
Section 3.
Benefit Protection
.
     (a)     . Concurrent with the adoption of the Program, the Board has adopted the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades Below 27, the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 27 to 30 and the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 40 and Above in order to provide protection to eligible employees of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries in the event of a Change in Control.
Severance Programs
     (b)     .
Other Chevron Plans
     (i)     . During the Benefit Protection Period, neither the Corporation nor a Subsidiary may take any action which would render ineligible for post-retirement health care or life insurance coverage an individual who as of the date of a Change in Control had satisfied the eligibility requirements for such coverage (as determined under the terms of the applicable plan). This provision shall be applicable to any such individual, whether or not he or she was employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on the date of the Change in Control.
Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance Coverage
     (ii)     . During the Benefit Protection Period, neither the Corporation nor a Subsidiary may take any action which would reduce the amount or duration of employer contributions toward the cost of health care coverage or the proportion which employer contributions bears to the total cost of life insurance coverage for any individual who as of the date of a Change in Control was entitled to have the Corporation or a Subsidiary pay for all or a portion of the cost of such coverage (or who becomes so entitled during the Benefit Protection Period). This provision shall be applicable to any such individual, whether or not he or she was employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on the date of the Change in Control.
Employer Health Care and Life Insurance Coverage Contribution
     (iii)     . Upon a Change in Control, all Members in the Chevron Corporation Retirement Plan who were on the active payroll of the Corporation or a Subsidiary on the date of a Change in Control shall become filly vested in their benefits accrued under the Retirement Plan.
Retirement Plan Vesting
     (c)     . The Board shall take such action, if a Change in Control is effected pursuant to an agreement between the Corporation and another party or parties, as is necessary to require that such agreement contain provisions reasonably effective to ensure that (i) the benefits intended to be provided under the foregoing plans to eligible persons as of the date of the Change in Control will be effectively provided following the Change in Control and for at least two years thereafter; and (ii) following a Change in Control if any benefit plan or program previously maintained by the Corporation or any Subsidiary is eliminated or amended to reduce the benefits provided thereunder, the benefits thereafter provided under any comparable plan maintained by the Corporation or any Subsidiary or by the party or parties to the Change in Control shall be no less favorable to the individuals previously eligible to participate in the amended or eliminated plan or program than the benefits
Change in Control Effected Pursuant to Agreement
 
provided under comparable plans or programs to similarly situated employees or retirees, as applicable, of the party or parties to the Change in Control.
     (d)     
General Provisions.
     (i)     . No employee shall be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in any plan or program of the corporation or a Subsidiary by seeking other employment or otherwise and, except as otherwise provided in the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 27 to 30 or the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 40 and Above, as applicable, no such payment shall be offset or reduced by the amount of any compensation or benefits provided to any employee in any subsequent employment.
No Mitigation of Damages
     (ii)     . The provisions of this Program shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof
Severability
     (iii)     . The Program shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its successors and assigns and the Corporation shall require any successor or assign to expressly assume and agree to perform the Program in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform them if no such succession or assignment had taken place. The term "the Corporation" as used herein shall include such successors and assigns. The term "successors and assigns" as used herein shall mean a corporation or other entity acquiring all or substantially all the assets and business of the corporation (including the Program) whether by operation of law or otherwise.
Successors and Assigns
     (iv)     . The Corporation's obligation to make the payments and provide the benefits included in the Program and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other rights which the Corporation may have against the affected employee or others.
No Right of Setoff
     (v)     . No provision of the Program may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the affected employee and the Corporation. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of the Program to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the time or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
     
Section 4.
Payment of Tax Equalization Benefits
.
     (a)     . This Section 4 shall be applicable to any individual who is eligible to receive an award under the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time. Such individuals shall be referred to in this Section 4 as "Eligible Employees."
Eligibility
 
     (b)     . If any payments, distributions or other benefits payable by or from the Corporation to or for the benefit of an Eligible Employee in connection with or in any way related (or deemed related) to a Change in Control from any source whatsoever (collectively the "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Eligible Employee with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Payment shall be limited to the largest amount which would not cause the Eligible Employee to be subject to the Excise Tax (the "Limited Payment"). The preceding sentence shall not apply, however, if the Payment (prior to such limitation) exceeds the Limited Payment by more than the lesser of ten percent of the Payment or $50,000. Where the Payment is not limited to the Limited Payment, the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation or the Subsidiary which employs the Eligible Employee an additional payment (the "Equalization Amount") in an amount such that after payment by the Eligible Employee of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any interest and penalties imposed thereto) and the Excise Tax imposed on the Equalization Amount, the Eligible Employee retains an amount of the Equalization Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment; that the maximum Equalization Amount payable to an Eligible Employee shall not exceed 2.99 times the Eligible Employee's "base amount" as defined in Section 280G of the Code. All calculations required pursuant to the Program shall be performed by the Accountants based on information supplied by the Corporation and the Eligible Employee. All fees and expenses of the Accountants shall be paid by the Corporation. In the event that an Eligible Employee's Payment is limited to a Limited Payment, the components of the Payment shall be reduced in the following order, solely to the extent necessary to reduce the Payment to the Limited Payment:
Tax Equalization Benefits
provided, however,
     (i)     Payments pursuant to a severance program described in Section 3(a);
     (ii)     Payments pursuant to a performance unit granted under the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan which was accelerated by reason of the Change in Control;
     (iii)     The right to exercise a stock option granted under the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan the vesting of which was accelerated by reason of the Change in Control; and
     (iv)     Any other component of the Payment
     
Section 5.
.
Administration
     (a)     . The Program shall be administered by the Management Compensation Committee of the Board, or any successor thereto. The Board may at any time replace the Management Compensation Committee with another Committee.
The Committee
     (b)     . The Committee shall hold meetings at such times and places as it may determine. Acts approved by a majority of the members of the Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts reduced to or approved in writing by a majority of the members of the Committee, shall be the valid acts of the Committee.
Actions by the Committee
 
     (c)     . The Committee shall have the authority to administer the Program in its sole discretion. To this end, the Committee is authorized to construe and interpret the Program, to promulgate, amend and rescind Rules relating to the implementation of the Program and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Program. Subject to the requirements of applicable law, the Committee may designate persons other than members of the Committee to carry out its responsibilities and may prescribe such conditions and limitations as it may deem appropriate. Any determination, decision or action of the Committee in connection with the construction, interpretation, administration, or application of the Program shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons participating in the Program and any person validly claiming under or through persons participating in the Program.
Powers of the Committee
     (d)     . No member of the Board or the Committee will be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Board or the Committee with respect to the Program.
Liability of Committee Members
     
Section 6.
Amendment or Termination of the Program
.
     The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Program at any time; provided, however, that no amendment, suspension or termination which was approved by the Board during the Benefit Protection Period shall be valid or effective if such amendment, suspension or termination would alter the provisions of this Section 6, adversely affect an Eligible Employee's right to or amount of an Equalization Amount under the Program, whether or not the Eligible Employee's employment had terminated at the time the amendment, suspension or termination was so approved, or otherwise eliminate or reduce any protection provided by the Program; provided, however, that any such amendment, suspension or termination may be effected, even if so approved after such a public announcement, if (a) the amendment, suspension or revision is approved after any plans have been abandoned to effect the transaction which, if effected, would have constituted a Change in Control and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred, and (b) within a period of six months after such approval, no other event constituting a Change in Control shall have occurred, and no public announcement of a proposed event which would constitute a Change in Control shall have been made, unless thereafter any plans to effect the Change in Control have been abandoned and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred. Any amendment, suspension or termination of the Program which is approved by the Board prior to a Change in Control at the request of a third party who effectuates a Change in Control shall be deemed to be an amendment, suspension or termination which is approved during the Benefit Protection Period.
     
Section 7.
General
.
     (a)     . Nothing contained in the Program nor any action of the Committee pursuant to the Program shall give any individual any right to remain in the employ of the Corporation or to impair the Corporation's right to terminate the employment of any individual at any time, with or without cause, which right is hereby reserved.
No Right of Employment
 
     (b)     . The costs and expenses of administering the Program shall be borne by the Corporation.
Costs of the Program
     (c)     . The interest and property rights of any individual under the Program shall not be subject to option or be assignable either by voluntary or involuntary assignment or by operation of law, including (without limitation) bankruptcy, garnishment, attachment or other creditor's process, and any act in violation of this Section 7(c) shall be void.
No Assignment
     (d)     . The Program shall be administered, enforced, construed and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, without regard to the conflicts of laws principles thereof
Applicable Law
     (e)     . The Program is not intended and shall not be construed to require the Corporation to find any of the benefits provided hereunder or to establish a trust for such purpose. The interest under the Program of any individual shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Corporation.
Participant's Rights Unsecured
     
Section 8.
Execution
.
     To record the adoption of the amended and restated Chevron Corporation Benefit Protection Program to read as set forth herein effective December 7, 2005, Chevron Corporation has caused its authorized officer to affix the corporate name hereto this 12 day of December , 2005.
th

 
Exhibit 10.3
1. Purpose.
The purpose of the Management Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation is to obtain, develop and retain able management personnel, stimulate constructive and imaginative thinking, and contribute to the growth and profits of the Corporation.
2. Effective Date.
The Plan was adopted effective January 1, 1966 and approved by the Corporation's stockholders at the Annual Meeting on May 5, 1966. The Plan was amended and restated effective October 9, 2001 and approved by the Corporation's stockholders at the Annual Meeting on May 15, 2002. The Plan was last amended and restated effective December 7, 2005.
3. Awards Under the Plan.
Awards under the Plan shall be made in the sole discretion of the Committee. After the close of an Award Year, the Committee shall determine the dollar amount of the award to be made to each Eligible Employee whom the Committee selects to be an award recipient for that Award Year; provided, however, that the award amount for the chief executive officer and the next four highest compensated officers of the corporation shall be subject to the following limitations:
         A.     0.5% of the Corporation's "Annual Income" shall be set aside for awards to such officers. For this purpose, "Annual Income" shall mean reported earnings before special items and accounting changes.
         B.     The maximum awards to the following officers shall equal the indicated percentage of the aggregate fund set forth in A above, determined pursuant to the following schedule:
C.     The Committee in its sole discretion may reduce the award otherwise payable to any such officer as determined above, but in no event may
 
any such reduction result in an increase of the award payable to any other participant, including but not limited to any other such officer.
The foregoing notwithstanding, following a "change in control" of the Corporation, as defined in Article VI of the bylaws of the Corporation, as such bylaws may be amended from time to time (a "Change in Control"), neither the Committee nor any other entity or individual(s) shall have the discretion to make awards under the Plan. Rather, for the calendar year in which the Change in Control occurs and, if payment of awards for the calendar year prior to the year in which the Change of Control occurs has not been completed as of the date of the Change in Control, that prior calendar year, each Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive an award in an amount not less than that Eligible Employee's target bonus, as determined pursuant to the Committee's established procedures prior to the Change in Control. For any Eligible Employee whose employment terminates other than on the last day of a calendar year, the award determined pursuant to the preceding sentence for the year in which such termination occurs shall be prorated on the basis of the number of weeks elapsed in the calendar year to the date of such termination of employment.
4. Management Compensation Committee.
The Management Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Chevron Corporation will administer the Plan. If any member of the Committee does not qualify as an "outside director" for purposes of section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, awards under the Plan for the chief executive officer and the four most highly compensated officers of the Corporation (other than the chief executive officer) shall be administered by a subcommittee of the Board consisting of each Committee member who qualifies as an "outside director." If fewer than two Committee members qualify as an "outside director," the Board shall appoint one or more other members to such subcommittee who do qualify as "outside directors" so that it will at all times consist of at least two members who qualify as an "outside director" for purposes of section 162(m) of the Code.
Decisions and determinations as to the number and identity of participants, as to the form and amount of awards and as to any other matters relating to awards made under the Plan, shall rest with the Committee. The Corporation management will make recommendations to the Committee, but the Committee will not be bound by such recommendations and will make its own final determinations.
Within 30 days after the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Committee shall appoint an independent organization which shall thereafter administer the Plan and have all of the powers and duties formerly held and exercised by the Committee with respect to the Plan. Upon such appointment, the Committee shall cease to have any responsibility with respect to the administration of the Plan.
 
5. Eligibility for Management Incentive Awards.
Regular salaried employees including directors, officers, and other individuals serving in important executive, administrative, professional or technical capacities, as determined by the Committee, who have been on the payroll of the Corporation or the payroll of a participating affiliate at any time during the year, shall be eligible for participation in the Plan. As used herein, the term "participating affiliate" shall mean any corporation in which the Corporation holds directly or indirectly more than 50% of the voting securities and whose financial accounts are consolidated with those of the Corporation in the financial statement included in the Annual Report to Stockholders.
     
6.
Form, Amount, Time and Conditions of Awards.
          (a) . Awards may be made in any of the following forms or in any combination of forms as determined by the Committee:
Form
               (i) Units representing shares of Common Stock of the Corporation, together with dividend equivalents, as described in Section 7 ("stock units");
               (ii) Cash, including cash measured by stock units or any other investment performance measurement selected by the Committee from time to time; or
               (iii) Shares of Common Stock of the Corporation.
In the case of awards in stock units or cash measured by stock units, the number of units shall be adjusted for any stock splits, stock dividends, or other relevant changes in capitalization occurring after the date of award.
          (b) . The amount of each award shall be determined by the Committee.
Amount
          (c) . Any award may be paid in a lump sum in the year in which the award is made or in a series of annual installments, or such awards may be deferred until retirement, death or disability, and then paid in a lump sum or installments, all as the Committee shall determine. The Committee in its discretion may determine that interest (at such rate as may be selected by the Committee) shall be credited to and paid at the same time and in the same manner as a deferred award. Any award and the payment thereof may be made subject to such forfeiture and other conditions for such period of time as the Committee shall determine. Any award which becomes payable after the recipient's death shall be delivered or distributed to the award recipient's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries. Each recipient of an award under the Plan may designate on the prescribed form filed with the Committee one or more Beneficiaries. An award recipient may change such designation at any time by filing the prescribed form with the Committee. If a Beneficiary has not been designated or no designated Beneficiary survives the award recipient, any award which becomes payable after the award recipient's death will be made to the award recipient's Surviving Spouse as Beneficiary if such Spouse is still living or, if not living, in equal shares to the then living children of the award recipient as Beneficiaries or, if none, to the award recipient's estate as Beneficiary. The Committee, at its sole discretion, shall
Time and Conditions
 
determine the form and time of any distribution(s) to an award recipient's Beneficiary or Beneficiaries.
In addition to any forfeiture condition established by the Committee with respect to any award, until any award granted under the Plan (or a portion thereof) is delivered or distributed, such award (or such portion) shall be forfeited under the following circumstances:
               (i) The participant is dismissed for cause or otherwise ceases to be an employee of the Corporation or a participating affiliate at a time when cause for dismissal exists; or
               (ii) The participant, before or after the termination of his or her employment as an Employee, engages in any activity which, in the Committee's opinion, is prejudicial to the interests of the Corporation or any participating affiliate; or
               (iii) The participant is indebted to the Corporation or any participating affiliate at the time when the participant becomes entitled to payment of an award under the Plan following termination of employment with the Corporation or any participating affiliate.
                    In such case, the payment, to the extent that the amount thereof (determined as of the date payment is scheduled to be made) does not exceed such indebtedness, shall be forfeited and the participant's indebtedness to the Corporation or participating affiliate shall be extinguished to the extent of such forfeiture.
The Committee may cancel the payment of all or any part of an award under the Plan if the Committee determines that the payment of such award or part thereof would violate any mandatory wage controls in effect at the time payment would otherwise be made.
7. Dividend Equivalents.
The Committee may determine that any stock unit awarded (or a cash award measured by stock units) will carry with it until paid a dividend equivalent which will entitle the holder to receive payments from the Corporation equal to the cash dividends paid on one share of Common Stock of the Corporation during the periods from the time of the award of the stock units to the time the shares are delivered to the participant (or the cash award is paid). Payment of dividend equivalents may be made in cash or stock and at such time or times as determined by the Committee. Dividend equivalents shall be subject to the same forfeiture and other provisions as the related stock unit.
8. Administration, Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
The Management Compensation Committee shall have the power and authority to interpret and administer the Plan. The Board of Directors may, at any time, alter, amend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that no alteration, amendment or termination approved by the Board of Directors after six months prior to the public announcement of the proposed transaction which, when effected, is a Change in Control or before the date which is two years after the date of a Change in Control (the "Benefit Protection Period")
 
shall be valid or effective if such alteration, amendment or termination would alter the provisions of this Section 8 or adversely affect the amount of a participant's award under the Plan, whether or not the participant's employment had terminated at the time the alteration, amendment or termination was approved; provided, however, any alteration, amendment or termination may be effected, even if so approved after such a public announcement, if (a) the alteration, amendment or termination is approved after any plans have been abandoned to effect the transaction which, if effected, would have constituted a Change in Control and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred, and (b) within a period of six months after such approval, no other event constituting a Change in Control shall have occurred, and no public announcement of a proposed event which would constitute a Change in Control shall have been made, unless thereafter any plans to effect the Change in Control have been abandoned and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred. Any alteration, amendment or termination of the Plan which is approved by the Board of Directors prior to a Change in Control at the request of a third party who effectuates a Change in Control shall be deemed to be an alteration, amendment or termination approved during the Benefit Protection Period.
The Committee is authorized in its sole discretion to establish a grantor trust for the purpose of providing security for the payment of Awards under the Plan; provided, however, that no Participant shall be considered to have a beneficial ownership interest (or any other sort of interest) in any specific asset of the Corporation or of its subsidiaries or affiliates as a result of the creation of such trust or the transfer of funds or other property to such trust.
9. Assignability.
Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, a participant's award, the interest, if any, of a participant's beneficiary and (during the period, shares of Common Stock of the Corporation awarded under the Plan are subject to forfeiture conditions) such shares may not be assigned, either by voluntary or involuntary assignment or by operation of law, including, but without limitation, garnishment, attachment or other creditor's process and any act in violation hereof shall be void.
10. Forfeiture.
(a)     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if a participant engages in Misconduct the Committee (or its delegate) may determine that (i) the participant shall not receive any future awards pursuant to the Plan and (ii) the Corporation may demand repayment of any award received after June 29, 2005 with respect to a period after the date of the Participant's Misconduct.
(b)     For this purpose, "Misconduct" means that:
(i)     the Corporation has been required to prepare an accounting restatement due to material noncompliance, as a result of misconduct, with any
 
financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, and the Committee (or its delegate) has determined in its sole discretion that a Participant (i) had knowledge of the material noncompliance or the circumstances that gave rise to such noncompliance and failed to take reasonable steps to bring it to the attention of appropriate individuals within the Corporation or (ii) personally and knowingly engaged in practices which materially contributed to the circumstances that enabled a material noncompliance to occur; or
(ii)    a Participant discloses to others, or takes or uses for his or her own purpose or the purpose of others, any trade secrets, confidential information, knowledge, data or know-how or any other proprietary information or intellectual property belonging to the Corporation and obtained by the Participant during the term of his or her employment, whether or not they are the Participant's work product. Examples of such confidential information or trade secrets include, without limitation, customer lists, supplier lists, pricing and cost data, computer programs, delivery routes, advertising plans, wage and salary data, financial information, research and development plans, processes, equipment, product information and all other types and categories of information as to which the Participant knows or has reason to know that the Corporation intends or expects secrecy to be maintained; or
(iii)   a Participant fails to promptly return all documents and other tangible items belonging to the Corporation in the Participant's possession or control, including all complete or partial copies, recordings, abstracts, notes or reproductions of any kind made from or about such documents or information contained therein, upon termination of employment, whether pursuant to retirement or otherwise; or
(iv)   a Participant directly or indirectly engages in, becomes employed by, or renders services, advice or assistance to any business in competition with the Corporation at any time during the twelve months following termination of employment with the Corporation. As used herein, "business in competition" means any person, organization or enterprise which is engaged in or is about to become engaged in any line of business engaged in by the Corporation at the time of the termination of the Participant's employment with the Corporation; or
(v)    a Participant fails to inform any new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this section and of the Participant's continuing obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the trade secrets and other confidential information belonging to the Corporation and obtained by the Participant during the term of his or her employment with the Corporation; or
 
(vi)    a Participant induces or attempts to induce, directly or indirectly, any of the Corporation's customers, employees, representatives or consultants to terminate, discontinue or cease working with or for the Corporation, or to breach any contract with the Corporation, in order to work with or for, or enter into a contract with, the Participant or any third party; or
(vii)   a Participant engages in conduct which is not in good faith and which disrupts, damages, impairs or interferes with the business, reputation or employees of the Corporation; or
(viii)  a Participant committed an act of embezzlement, fraud or theft with respect to the property of the Corporation.
The Committee shall determine in its sole discretion whether the Participant has engaged in any of the acts set forth in subsections (i) through (viii) above, and its determination shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons.
Any provision of this Section 10 which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such invalid or unenforceable provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Section 10.

 
Exhibit 10.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.5
     1.     .
ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE
     The Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees (the "Plan") (formerly the Salary Deferral Plan for Management Employees) was amended and restated effective April 1, 2002, to enhance the ability of Chevron Corporation (the "Corporation") and its Subsidiaries to attract, motivate and retain executive and other key employees. The Plan was amended and restated again effective December 7, 2005. This Plan is intended to qualify as an unfunded ERISA pension plan maintained by an employer for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, as described in 26 C.F.R.  2520.104-23(d).
     2.     .
DEFINITIONS
     For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
     (a)     "" means the bookkeeping account maintained on behalf of a Participant to which shall be credited any amount described in Section 5.
Account
     (b)     "" means the person designated as such by the Participant pursuant to Section 8(b).
Beneficiary
     (c)     "" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
     (d)     "" means a change in control' as that term is defined in Article VI of the bylaws of the Corporation, as such bylaws may be amended from time to time.
Change in Control
     (e)     "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     (f)     "" means the Committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan as provided in Section 3.
Committee
     (g)     "" means Chevron Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation.
Corporation
     (h)     "" means an executive or other key employee (including an officer, whether or not a director) of the Corporation or a Subsidiary who holds a position of
Eligible Employee
 
significant responsibility or whose performance or potential contribution, in the judgment of the Committee, would benefit the future success of the Corporation and who is designated by the Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan.
     (i)     "" means an individual who is a salaried employee on the payroll of the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
Employee
     (j)     "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
     (k)     "" means the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
     (l)     "" means the Chevron Corporation Management Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.
Management Incentive Plan
     (m)     "" means an Eligible Employee described in Section 4.
Participant
     (n)     "" means the Chevron Corporation Salary Deferral Plan for Management Employees, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.
Plan
     (o)     "" means the calendar year.
Plan Year
     (p)     "" mean the rules promulgated by the Committee pursuant to the authority granted in Section 3(c).
Rules
     (q)     "" means any corporation or entity in which the Corporation directly or indirectly controls more than 50% of the total voting power of all classes of its stock having voting powers and which the Board has designated as a Subsidiary for purposes of the Plan.
Subsidiary
     3.     .
ADMINISTRATION
     (a)     .
The Committee
     The Plan shall be administered by the Management Compensation Committee of the Board, or any successor thereto. The Board may at any time replace the Management Compensation Committee with another Committee.
     (b)     .
Actions by the Committee
     The Committee shall hold meetings at such times and places as it may determine. Acts approved by a majority of the members of the Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts reduced to or approved in writing by a majority of the members of the Committee, shall be the valid acts of the Committee.
 
     (c)     .
Powers of the Committee
     The Committee shall have the authority to administer the Plan in its sole discretion. To this end, the Committee is authorized to construe and interpret the Plan, to promulgate, amend and rescind Rules relating to the implementation of the Plan and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, including the selection of Employees who shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. Subject to the requirements of applicable law, the Committee may designate persons other than members of the Committee to carry out its responsibilities and may prescribe such conditions and limitations as it may deem appropriate. Any determination, decision or action of the Committee in connection with the construction, interpretation, administration, or application of the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons participating in the Plan and any person validly claiming under or through persons participating in the Plan.
     (d)     .
Liability of Committee Members
     No member of the Board or the Committee will be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Board or the Committee with respect to the Plan.
     (e)     .
Administration of the Plan Following a Change in Control
     Within 30 days after the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Committee shall appoint an independent organization which shall thereafter administer the Plan and have all of the powers and duties formerly held and exercised by the Committee pursuant to Section 3(c) with respect to the Plan. Upon such appointment, the Committee shall cease to have any responsibility with respect to the administration of the Plan.
     4.     .
PARTICIPATION
     Each Eligible Employee who elects to defer base salary under the Plan in accordance with the Rules or who makes a deferral election available under the terms of the Management Incentive Plan or Long-Term Incentive Plan, shall automatically become a Participant in the Plan.
     5.     .
DEFERRED COMPENSATION
     The Committee shall promulgate Rules governing (i) elections by Eligible Employees to defer base salary and (ii) the establishment of Accounts to which shall be credited amounts deferred pursuant to an election described in (i) or any deferral election made available under the terms of the Management Incentive Plan or the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the crediting of interest or earnings to such Accounts, and the time, form and value of distributions from such Accounts.
 
     6.     .
FORFEITURE
     (a)     Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if a Participant engages in Misconduct the Committee (or its delegate) may determine that any balance in the Participant's Account attributable to awards made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Management Incentive Plan on or after June 29, 2005 and the date of the Participant's Misconduct shall be forfeited.
     (b)     For this purpose, "Misconduct" means that:
          (1)     the Corporation has been required to prepare an accounting restatement due to material noncompliance, as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, and the Committee (or its delegate) has determined in its sole discretion that a Participant (i) had knowledge of the material noncompliance or the circumstances that gave rise to such noncompliance and failed to take reasonable steps to bring it to the attention of appropriate individuals within the Corporation or (ii) personally and knowingly engaged in practices which materially contributed to the circumstances that enabled a material noncompliance to occur; or
          (2)     a Participant discloses to others, or takes or uses for his or her own purpose or the purpose of others, any trade secrets, confidential information, knowledge, data or know-how or any other proprietary information or intellectual property belonging to the Corporation and obtained by the Participant during the term of his or her employment, whether or not they are the Participant's work product. Examples of such confidential information or trade secrets include, without limitation, customer lists, supplier lists, pricing and cost data, computer programs, delivery routes, advertising plans, wage and salary data, financial information, research and development plans, processes, equipment, product information and all other types and categories of information as to which the Participant knows or has reason to know that the Corporation intends or expects secrecy to be maintained; or
          (3)     a Participant fails to promptly return all documents and other tangible items belonging to the Corporation in the Participant's possession or control, including all complete or partial copies, recordings, abstracts, notes or reproductions of any kind made from or about such documents or information contained therein, upon termination of employment, whether pursuant to retirement or otherwise; or
          (4)     a Participant directly or indirectly engages in, becomes employed by, or renders services, advice or assistance to any business in competition with the Corporation at any time during the twelve months following termination of employment with the Corporation. As used herein, "business in competition" means any person, organization or enterprise which is engaged in or is about to become engaged in any line of business engaged in by the Corporation at the time of the termination of the Participant's employment with the Corporation; or
          (5)     a Participant fails to inform any new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this section and of the Participant's continuing obligation to
 
maintain the confidentiality of the trade secrets and other confidential information belonging to the Corporation and obtained by the Participant during the term of his or her employment with the Corporation; or
          (6)     a Participant induces or attempts to induce, directly or indirectly, any of the Corporation's customers, employees, representatives or consultants to terminate, discontinue or cease working with or for the Corporation, or to breach any contract with the Corporation, in order to work with or for, or enter into a contract with, the Participant or any third party; or
          (7)     a Participant engages in conduct which is not in good faith and which disrupts, damages, impairs or interferes with the business, reputation or employees of the Corporation; or
          (8)     a Participant committed an act of embezzlement, fraud or theft with respect to the property of the Corporation.
The Committee shall determine in its sole discretion whether the Participant has engaged in any of the acts set forth in subsections 1 through 8 above, and its determination shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons.
Any provision of this Section 6 which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such invalid or unenforceable provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Section 6.
 
     7.     .
AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN
     Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7, the Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. In the event of such termination, the Accounts of Participants shall be paid at such times and in such forms as shall be determined pursuant to the Rules, unless the Board prescribes a different time or times for payment of such Accounts. No amendment, suspension or termination (other than an amendment to discontinue future salary deferrals) approved by the Board after six months prior to the public announcement of a proposed transaction which, when effected, is a Change in Control or before the date which is two years after the date of a Change in Control (the Benefit Protection Period') shall be valid or effective if such amendment, suspension or termination would alter the terms of these resolutions or adversely affect the amount of a Participant's Account under the Plan, whether or not the Participant's employment had terminated at the time the amendment, suspension or termination was approved; provided, however, any amendment, suspension or termination may be effected, even if so approved after such a public announcement, if (a) the amendment, suspension or termination is approved after any plans have been abandoned to effect the transaction which, if effected, would have constituted a Change in Control and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred, and (b) within a period of six months after such approval, no other event constituting a Change in Control shall have occurred, and no public announcement of a proposed event which would constitute a Change in Control shall have been made, unless thereafter any plans to effect the Change in Control have been abandoned and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred. Any amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan which is so approved prior to a Change in Control at the request of a third party who effectuates a Change in Control shall be deemed to be an amendment, suspension or termination approved during the Benefit Protection Period.
     8.     .
GENERAL
     (a)     .
No Right of Employment
     Nothing contained in the Plan nor any action of the Committee pursuant to the Plan shall give any employee any right to remain in the employ of the Corporation or to impair the Corporation's right to terminate the employment of any employee at any time, with or without cause, which right is hereby reserved.
     (b)     .
Designation of Beneficiaries
     Participants may designate on the prescribed form one or more Beneficiaries to whom distribution shall be made of any outstanding Account balance at the time of the Participant's death. A Participant may change such designation at any time by filing the prescribed form with the Committee. If a Beneficiary has not been designated or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Participant, distribution will be made to the Participant's surviving spouse as Beneficiary if then living or, if not, in equal shares to the then living children of the Participant as Beneficiaries or, if none, to the Participant's estate as Beneficiary.
 
     (c)     .
Domestic Relations Orders
     The procedures established by the Corporation for the determination of the qualified status of domestic relations orders and for making distributions under qualified domestic relations orders, as provided in Section 206(d) of ERISA, shall apply to the Plan.
     (d)     .
Costs of the Plan
     The costs and expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Corporation.
     (e)     .
Severability
     The provisions of the Plan shall be deemed severable and the validity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof.
     (f)     .
Binding Effect of Plan
     The Plan shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its successors and assigns, and the Corporation shall require any successor or assign to expressly assume and agree to perform the Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform it if no such succession or assignment had taken place. The term "the Corporation" as used herein shall include such successors and assigns. The term "successors and assigns" as used herein shall mean a corporation or other entity acquiring all or substantially all the assets and business of the Corporation (including the Plan) whether by operation of law or otherwise.
     (g)     .
No Waiver of Breach
     No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of the Plan to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions of conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
     (h)     .
No Assignment
     The interest and property rights of any Participant under the Plan shall not be subject to option nor be assignable either by voluntary or involuntary assignment or by operation of law, including (without limitation) bankruptcy, garnishment, attachment or other creditor's process, and any act in violation of this Section 8(h) shall be void.
     (i)     .
Applicable Law
     The Plan shall be administered, construed and governed in accordance with ERISA and, to the extent not preempted by ERISA, the laws of the State of California.
 
     (j)     .
Participant's Rights Unsecured
     This Plan is not intended and shall not be construed to require the Corporation to fund any of the benefits provided hereunder or to establish a trust for such purpose. The interest under the Plan of any Participant and such Participant's right to receive a distribution of his or her Account shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Corporation. The Account shall be a bookkeeping entry only and no Participant shall have any interest in or claim against any specific asset of the Company pursuant to the Plan.
     (k)     .
Authority to Establish a Grantor Trust
     The Committee is authorized in its sole discretion to establish a grantor trust for the purpose of providing security for the payment of benefits under the Plan; provided, however, that no Participant shall be considered to have a beneficial ownership interest (or any other sort of interest) in any specific asset of the Corporation or of its subsidiaries or affiliates as a result of the creation of such trust or the transfer of funds or other property to such trust.
     (l)     .
Other Benefit Plans
     To the extent permitted by applicable law, a Participant's deferral elections made pursuant to this Plan shall be disregarded for purposes of determining the Participant's benefits under any other benefit plan or program established or maintained by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries.

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
      Chevron Corporation today announced Linnet F. Deily, former deputy United States trade representative (USTR) and ambassador, has been elected to the Chevron board of directors effective Jan. 24, 2006.
SAN RAMON, Calif., Dec. 7, 2005
     Deily, 60, served as chief of mission of the USTR in Geneva, Switzerland, led the U.S. delegation at the World Trade Organization, including supervising the team in the Doha Round of trade negotiations. Prior to joining the USTR, Deily was vice chairman for Charles Schwab Corporation. She supervised the company's strategic direction and integration of Schwab's various client-focused enterprises and served on the company's management committee.
     Deily previously served as president of Schwab's institutional management business and as president of the Schwab Retail Group. Prior to joining Schwab, Deily was chairman of the First Interstate Bancorp Retail Council, president and CEO of the First Interstate Bank of Texas and held other various positions in international banking. She was a member of the Advisory Council to the Federal Reserve Bank's board of governors, representing the 12 District.
th
     In 1967, Deily earned a bachelor's degree in government from the University of Texas at Austin. She received a master's degree in international management from the University of Texas at Dallas in 1976.
     Currently, Deily serves on the board of directors for Lucent Technologies. She is an honorary trustee of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. Deily recently served as a director of the American Conservatory Theatre in San Francisco, Catalyst in New York and The Women's Museum in Dallas.
     Chevron Corporation is one of the world's leading energy companies. With more than 53,000 employees, Chevron subsidiaries conduct business in approximately 180 countries around the world, producing and transporting crude oil and natural gas, and refining, marketing and distributing fuels and other energy products. Chevron is based in San Ramon, Calif. More information on Chevron is available at
www.chevron.com.
Contact:                    Camille Priselac                    +1 925 842 2583


