FILE:CVX/CVX-8K-20061212140445.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
     On December 6, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Chevron Corporation ("Chevron") approved, among other things, amendments to the Chevron Corporation Change In Control Surplus Employee Severance Program For Salary Grades 41 and Above (renamed the Chevron Corporation Change In Control Surplus Employee Severance Program For Salary Grades 41 Through 43 ("CIC SESP")), Chevron Corporation Benefit Protection Program ("BPP"), Management Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation ("MIP"), and Chevron Corporation Long Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP") to eliminate benefits for certain senior executive officers in the event of a change in control, including eliminating severance payments to senior executive officers in salary grades 44 and above by removing such officers from the coverage of the CIC SESP, removing the required payment of a minimum bonus under the MIP, removing the requirement that the modifier for all performance shares outstanding on the date of the change in control be the greater of 100% or the modifier determined in the usual manner under the LTIP, and removing the tax gross-up provision under the BPP, and other technical and conforming changes. The changes are applicable to eligible senior executives in salary grades 44 and above and are not applicable to the broad-based employee population. In addition, the Board approved amendments to the MIP, LTIP and Chevron Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Equity Compensation and Deferral Plan to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("IRC"), as well as other technical and conforming changes, and froze, as of January 1, 2005, the Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees ("DCP") and adopted a new Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees II, effective as of January 1, 2005, which is identical to the DCP, except as modified to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the IRC. Each of the foregoing plans is filed as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION
The Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 41  43 (the "Plan") was adopted by the Corporation effective March 29, 2000. For all purposes herein, any reference to Salary Grades 41 through 43 shall be deemed to include the equivalent to such Salary Grades under a successor system of classifying Salary Grades.
The purpose of the Plan is to provide a Severance Pay Benefit or a Benefit Plan Allowance to certain Employees whose employment with the Company terminates in connection with a Change in Control. The Corporation is the Plan Administrator for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). The Plan shall terminate three years after a Change in Control.
II. COMMENCEMENT OF PARTICIPATION
An Eligible Employee shall commence participation in the Plan and become a Member upon the public announcement of the proposed transaction which, when effected, is a Change in Control.
III. TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION
A Member's participation in the Plan shall terminate upon the occurrence of the earliest of the following:
 
IV. SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT
 
 
 
 
V. FORM OF SEVERANCE PAY BENEFIT
 
 
VI. BENEFIT PLAN ALLOWANCE
 
 
 
VII. FORM OF BENEFIT PLAN ALLOWANCE
VIII. DEATH OF A MEMBER
IX. BENEFITS PROVIDED UNDER OTHER PLANS
 
X. AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
 
XI. NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS
 
XII. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS
XIII. LEGAL CONSTRUCTION
XIV. ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION OF THE PLAN
 
XV. CLAIMS, INQUIRIES AND APPEALS
 
 
 
XVI. BASIS OF PAYMENTS TO AND FROM PLAN
XVII. OTHER PLAN INFORMATION
 
XIX. AVAILABILITY OF PLAN DOCUMENTS FOR EXAMINATION
 
 
XX. DEFINITIONS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.2
Section 1.
Establishment and Purpose
.
     This Chevron Corporation Benefit Protection Program was established effective March 29, 2000 by action of the Board of Chevron Corporation and amended and restated effective December 7, 2005. The Program was further amended effective December 6, 2006. The purpose of the Program is to protect certain benefits provided to employees of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries against elimination or reduction in the event of a Change in Control. In addition, the Program is designed to provide individuals who are eligible to receive awards under the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan compensation to offset any excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Section 2.
Definitions
.
     (a) "" means the independent accountants retained by the Company most recently prior to the Change in Control.
Accountants
     (b) "" means the period commencing six months prior to the public announcement of a proposed transaction which, when effected, is a Change in Control and ending on the date which is two years after the date of a Change in Control.
Benefit Protection Period
     (c) "" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
Board
     (d) "" shall have the meaning assigned to it in Article VI of the bylaws of the Corporation, as such bylaws may be amended from time to time.
Change in Control
     (e) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
     (f) "" means Chevron Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation.
Corporation
     (g) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 of the Program.
Equalization Amount
     (h) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 of the Program.
Excise Tax
     (i) "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4 of the Program.
Payment
     (j) "" means this Chevron Corporation Benefit Protection Program.
Program
     (k) "" means any corporation or entity in which the Corporation directly or indirectly controls more than 50% of the total voting power of all classes of its stock having voting powers and which the Board has designated as a Subsidiary for purposes of the Program.
Subsidiary
 
Section 3.
Benefit Protection
.
     (a) . Concurrent with the adoption of the Program, the Board has adopted the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades Below 27, the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 27 to 30 and the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 41 through 43 in order to provide protection to eligible employees of the Corporation or its Subsidiaries in the event of a Change in Control.
Severance Programs
     (b) .
Other Chevron Plans
     (i) . During the Benefit Protection Period, neither the Corporation nor a Subsidiary may take any action which would render ineligible for post-retirement health care or life insurance coverage an individual who as of the date of a Change in Control had satisfied the eligibility requirements for such coverage (as determined under the terms of the applicable plan). This provision shall be applicable to any such individual, whether or not he or she was employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on the date of the Change in Control.
Retiree Health Care and Life Insurance Coverage
     (ii) . During the Benefit Protection Period, neither the Corporation nor a Subsidiary may take any action which would reduce the amount or duration of employer contributions toward the cost of health care coverage or the proportion which employer contributions bears to the total cost of life insurance coverage for any individual who as of the date of a Change in Control was entitled to have the Corporation or a Subsidiary pay for all or a portion of the cost of such coverage (or who becomes so entitled during the Benefit Protection Period). This provision shall be applicable to any such individual, whether or not he or she was employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary on the date of the Change in Control.
Employer Health Care and Life Insurance Coverage Contribution
     (iii) . Upon a Change in Control, all Members in the Chevron Corporation Retirement Plan who were on the active payroll of the Corporation or a Subsidiary on the date of a Change in Control shall become fully vested in their benefits accrued under the Retirement Plan.
Retirement Plan Vesting
     (c) . The Board shall take such action, if a Change in Control is effected pursuant to an agreement between the Corporation and another party or parties, as is necessary to require that such agreement contain provisions reasonably effective to ensure that (i) the benefits intended to be provided under the foregoing plans to eligible persons as of the date of the Change in Control will be effectively provided following the Change in Control and for at least two years thereafter; and (ii) following a Change in Control if any benefit plan or program previously maintained by the Corporation or any Subsidiary is eliminated or amended to reduce the benefits provided thereunder, the benefits thereafter provided under any comparable plan maintained by the Corporation or any Subsidiary or by the party or parties to the Change in Control shall be no less favorable to the individuals previously eligible to participate in the amended or eliminated plan or program than the benefits
Change in Control Effected Pursuant to Agreement
 
provided under comparable plans or programs to similarly situated employees or retirees, as applicable, of the party or parties to the Change in Control.
     (d) 
General Provisions.
     (i) . No employee shall be required to mitigate the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in any plan or program of the corporation or a Subsidiary by seeking other employment or otherwise and, except as otherwise provided in the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 27 to 30 or the Chevron Corporation Change in Control Surplus Employee Severance Program for Salary Grades 41 through 43, as applicable, no such payment shall be offset or reduced by the amount of any compensation or benefits provided to any employee in any subsequent employment.
No Mitigation of Damages
     (ii) . The provisions of this Program shall be deemed severable and the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof
Severability
     (iii) . The Program shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its successors and assigns and the Corporation shall require any successor or assign to expressly assume and agree to perform the Program in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform them if no such succession or assignment had taken place. The term "the Corporation" as used herein shall include such successors and assigns. The term "successors and assigns" as used herein shall mean a corporation or other entity acquiring all or substantially all the assets and business of the corporation (including the Program) whether by operation of law or otherwise.
Successors and Assigns
     (iv) . The Corporation's obligation to make the payments and provide the benefits included in the Program and otherwise to perform its obligations hereunder shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other rights which the Corporation may have against the affected employee or others.
No Right of Setoff
     (v) . No provision of the Program may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the affected employee and the Corporation. No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of the Program to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the time or at any prior or subsequent time.
Waiver
 
Section 4.
Payment of Tax Equalization Benefits
.
     (a) . This Section 4 shall be applicable to any individual who is in PSG 43 or below and who is eligible to receive an award under the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time. Such individuals shall be referred to in this Section 4 as "Eligible Employees."
Eligibility
     (b) . If any payments, distributions or other benefits payable by or from the Corporation to or for the benefit of an Eligible Employee in connection with or in any way related (or deemed related) to a Change in Control from any source whatsoever (collectively the "Payment") would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code or any interest or penalties are incurred by the Eligible Employee with respect to such excise tax (such excise tax, together with any such interest and penalties, are collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then the Payment shall be limited to the largest amount which would not cause the Eligible Employee to be subject to the Excise Tax (the "Limited Payment"). The preceding sentence shall not apply, however, if the Payment (prior to such limitation) exceeds the Limited Payment by more than the lesser of ten percent of the Payment or $50,000. Where the Payment is not limited to the Limited Payment, the Eligible Employee shall be entitled to receive from the Corporation or the Subsidiary which employs the Eligible Employee an additional payment (the "Equalization Amount") in an amount such that after payment by the Eligible Employee of all taxes (including, without limitation, any income and employment taxes and any interest and penalties imposed thereto) and the Excise Tax imposed on the Equalization Amount, the Eligible Employee retains an amount of the Equalization Payment equal to the Excise Tax imposed upon the Payment; that the maximum Equalization Amount payable to an Eligible Employee shall not exceed 2.99 times the Eligible Employee's "base amount" as defined in Section 280G of the Code. All calculations required pursuant to the Program shall be performed by the Accountants based on information supplied by the Corporation and the Eligible Employee. All fees and expenses of the Accountants shall be paid by the Corporation. In the event that an Eligible Employee's Payment is limited to a Limited Payment, the components of the Payment shall be reduced in the following order, solely to the extent necessary to reduce the Payment to the Limited Payment:
Tax Equalization Benefits
provided, however,
     (i) Payments pursuant to a severance program described in Section 3(a);
     (ii) Payments pursuant to a performance unit granted under the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan which was accelerated by reason of the Change in Control;
     (iii) The right to exercise a stock option granted under the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan the vesting of which was accelerated by reason of the Change in Control; and
     (iv)Any other component of the Payment
 
Section 5. Administration.
     (a) . The Program shall be administered by the Management Compensation Committee of the Board, or any successor thereto. The Board may at any time replace the Management Compensation Committee with another Committee.
The Committee
     (b) . The Committee shall hold meetings at such times and places as it may determine. Acts approved by a majority of the members of the Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts reduced to or approved in writing by a majority of the members of the Committee, shall be the valid acts of the Committee.
Actions by the Committee
     (c) . The Committee shall have the authority to administer the Program in its sole discretion. To this end, the Committee is authorized to construe and interpret the Program, to promulgate, amend and rescind Rules relating to the implementation of the Program and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Program. Subject to the requirements of applicable law, the Committee may designate persons other than members of the Committee to carry out its responsibilities and may prescribe such conditions and limitations as it may deem appropriate. Any determination, decision or action of the Committee in connection with the construction, interpretation, administration, or application of the Program shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons participating in the Program and any person validly claiming under or through persons participating in the Program.
Powers of the Committee
     (d) . No member of the Board or the Committee will be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Board or the Committee with respect to the Program.
Liability of Committee Members
Section 6.
Amendment or Termination of the Program
.
     The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Program at any time; provided, however, that no amendment, suspension or termination which was approved by the Board during the Benefit Protection Period shall be valid or effective if such amendment, suspension or termination would alter the provisions of this Section 6, adversely affect an Eligible Employee's right to or amount of an Equalization Amount under the Program, whether or not the Eligible Employee's employment had terminated at the time the amendment, suspension or termination was so approved, or otherwise eliminate or reduce any protection provided by the Program; provided, however, that any such amendment, suspension or termination may be effected, even if so approved after such a public announcement, if (a) the amendment, suspension or revision is approved after any plans have been abandoned to effect the transaction which, if effected, would have constituted a Change in Control and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred, and (b) within a period of six months after such approval, no other event constituting a Change in Control shall have occurred, and no public announcement of a proposed event which would constitute a Change in Control shall have been made, unless thereafter any plans to effect the Change in Control have been abandoned and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred. Any amendment, suspension or termination of the Program which is approved by the Board prior to a Change in Control at the
 
request of a third party who effectuates a Change in Control shall be deemed to be an amendment, suspension or termination which is approved during the Benefit Protection Period.
Section 7.
General
.
     (a) . Nothing contained in the Program nor any action of the Committee pursuant to the Program shall give any individual any right to remain in the employ of the Corporation or to impair the Corporation's right to terminate the employment of any individual at any time, with or without cause, which right is hereby reserved.
No Right of Employment
     (b) . The costs and expenses of administering the Program shall be borne by the Corporation.
Costs of the Program
     (c) . The interest and property rights of any individual under the Program shall not be subject to option or be assignable either by voluntary or involuntary assignment or by operation of law, including (without limitation) bankruptcy, garnishment, attachment or other creditor's process, and any act in violation of this Section 7(c) shall be void.
No Assignment
     (d) . The Program shall be administered, enforced, construed and governed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, without regard to the conflicts of laws principles thereof
Applicable Law
     (e) . The Program is not intended and shall not be construed to require the Corporation to fund any of the benefits provided hereunder or to establish a trust for such purpose. The interest under the Program of any individual shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Corporation.
Participant's Rights Unsecured

 
Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.4
 
 
1. PURPOSE.
The purpose of the Chevron Corporation Long-Term Incentive Plan is to promote and advance the interests of Chevron Corporation and its stockholders by strengthening the ability of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries to attract, motivate and retain managerial and other employees, and to strengthen the mutuality of interests between such employees and the Corporation's stockholders. The Plan was originally adopted by the Board on January 24, 1990 and was approved by the stockholders of the Corporation at the 1990 annual meeting of stockholders. The Plan replaced the Management Contingent Incentive Plan. The Plan has been amended on various occasions. The Plan was amended and restated by the Board effective January 28, 2004 and approved by the stockholders of the Corporation at the 2004 annual meeting of stockholders. The Plan was further amended and restated effective January 1, 2005 to comply with Section 409A of the Code. The Plan was last amended and restated effective December 7, 2005 and December 6, 2006.
Certain capitalized terms used in the Plan have the meaning set forth in Section 2.
2. DEFINITIONS.
For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
 
In addition, the terms "Rule 16b-3" and "Restriction Period" have the meanings set forth below in Sections 3(a) and 7(b) respectively.
3. ADMINISTRATION.
The Plan shall be administered by a Committee appointed by the Board, consisting of not less than a sufficient number of non-employee directors so as to qualify the Committee to administer the Plan as contemplated by Rule 16b-3 promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") pursuant to the Exchange Act, or any successor or replacement rule adopted by the Commission ("Rule 16b-3") and each of whom is an "independent" director as defined in the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. The Board may from time to time remove members from, or add members to, the Committee. Vacancies on the Committee, however caused, shall be filled by the Board. The Board shall appoint one of the members of the Committee as chair. The term "non-employee directors" shall be interpreted pursuant to Rule 16b-3. The Management Compensation Committee of the Board shall initially serve as the Committee. The Board may at any time replace the Management Compensation Committee with another Committee. In the event that the Management Compensation Committee shall cease to satisfy the requirements of Rule 16b-3, the Board shall appoint another Committee that shall satisfy such requirements. If any member of the Committee does not qualify as an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code, Awards under the Plan for "covered employees," as defined in Section 162(m) of the Code shall be administered by a subcommittee consisting of each Committee member who qualifies as an "outside director." If fewer than two Committee members qualify as an "outside director," the Board shall appoint one or more other members to such subcommittee who do qualify as "outside directors" so that it shall at all times consist of at least two members who qualify as an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
The Committee shall hold meetings at such times and places as it may determine. Acts approved by a majority of the members of the Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts reduced to or approved in writing by a majority of the members of the Committee, shall be the valid acts of the Committee.
The Committee shall have the authority to administer the Plan in its sole discretion. To this end, the Committee is authorized to construe and interpret the Plan, to promulgate, amend and rescind Rules relating to the implementation of the Plan and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, including the selection of Employees who shall be granted Awards, the number of Shares or Share equivalents to be subject to each Award, the Award price, if any, the vesting or duration of Awards, other terms and conditions of Awards and the disposition of Awards in the event of a Participant's divorce or dissolution of marriage. Subject to the requirements of applicable law, the Committee may designate persons other than members of the Committee to carry out its responsibilities and may prescribe such conditions and limitations as it may deem appropriate, except that the Committee may not delegate its authority with regard to the selection for participation of or the granting of Awards to persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act. Any determination, decision or action of the Committee in connection with the construction, interpretation, administration, or application of the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons participating in the Plan and any person validly claiming under or through persons participating in the Plan.
No member of the Board or the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Board or the Committee with respect to the Plan or any Award under it.
Within 30 days after the occurrence of a "change of control" of the Corporation as defined in Article VI of the bylaws of the Corporation, as such bylaws may be amended from time to time (a "Change in Control"), the Committee shall appoint an independent organization which shall thereafter administer the Plan and have all of the powers and duties formerly held and exercised by the Committee with respect to the Plan as provided in Section 3(c). Upon such appointment, the Committee shall cease to have any responsibility with respect to the administration of the Plan.
 
4. DURATION OF THE PLAN AND SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN.
The Plan shall terminate on January 27, 2014, unless sooner terminated by the Board.
Subject to stockholder approval of this amended and restated Plan, on and after April 28, 2004, the maximum number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan shall be one hundred sixty million (160,000,000) Shares; provided, however, that the maximum number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan subject to Full Value Awards shall be sixty-four million (64,000,000) Shares. The limitations set forth in this Section 4(b) shall be subject to adjustment as provided in Section 10.
1
Prior to April 28, 2004, the maximum number of Shares for which Awards may be granted shall be as set forth in the Plan prior to this amendment and restatement.
Shares covered by an Award shall only be counted against the limit set forth in Section 4(b) as used to the extent that such Shares are actually issued. Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged, with the Committee's permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under the Plan. Moreover, if the exercise price of any Stock Option granted under the Plan or the tax withholding requirements with respect to any Award under the Plan are satisfied by tendering Shares to the Corporation (either by attestation or actual delivery) or if a stock appreciation right is exercised, only the number of Shares issued, net of the Shares tendered, if any, shall be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan. The maximum number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan under Section 4(b) shall not be reduced to reflect any dividends or dividend equivalents that are reinvested into additional Shares or credited with respect to any Award outstanding under the Plan.
Common Stock issued under the Plan may be either authorized and unissued Shares or issued Shares that have been reacquired by the Corporation, as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. No fractional Shares of Common Stock shall be issued under the Plan.
 
 
5. PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR AWARDS; LIMITS ON INDIVIDUAL AWARDS.
Persons eligible for Awards under the Plan shall consist of Employees (including officers, whether or not they are directors). A Participant may receive more than one Award, including Awards of the same type, subject to the restrictions of the Plan.
The following limits shall apply to grants of Awards under the Plan:
6. STOCK OPTIONS.
All Stock Options granted under the Plan shall be in the form of nonstatutory stock options, that is options that are not incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code. All Stock Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and shall contain such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, as the Committee in its sole discretion shall deem desirable.
Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Committee shall have complete authority in its sole discretion to determine the persons to whom and the time or times at which grants of Stock Options shall be made. The terms of each Stock Option shall be set forth in a Stock Option Agreement, which shall contain such provisions not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, including, without limitation, restrictions upon the exercise of the Stock Option or restrictions on the transferability of Shares issued upon the exercise of a Stock Option, as the Committee shall deem advisable in its sole discretion. Stock Options may be granted alone, in addition to, or in tandem with other Awards under the Plan.
Each Stock Option shall state the number of Shares to which it pertains and shall provide for the adjustment thereof in accordance with the provisions of Section 10. No fractional Shares shall be issued pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Option.
 
 
Each Stock Option shall state the price per Share, determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, at which the Stock Option may be exercised; provided, however, that the exercise price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant.
A Stock Option may be exercised, in whole or in part, by giving notice of exercise in the manner prescribed by the Corporation specifying the number of Shares to be purchased. Such notice shall be accompanied by payment in full of the purchase price in cash or, if acceptable to the Committee in its sole discretion, and in accordance with its Rules, (i) in Shares already owned by the Participant (including, without limitation, by attestation to the ownership of such Shares), (ii) by the withholding and surrender of the Shares subject to the Stock Option, or (iii) by delivery (on a form prescribed by the Committee) of an irrevocable direction to a securities broker approved by the Committee to sell Shares and to deliver all or part of the sales proceeds to the Corporation in payment of all or part of the purchase price and any withholding taxes. Payment may also be made in any other form approved by the Committee, consistent with applicable law, regulations and rules.
Each Stock Option shall state the time or times when it becomes exercisable and the time or times when any stock appreciation right granted with it may be exercised, which shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion subject to the following provisions and to the Rules, as applicable. No Stock Option shall be exercisable before the completion of a specified period (as determined under the Rules) of continued employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary from the date the Stock Option is granted (except in the case of death or Disability). No Stock Option shall be exercisable more than ten (10) years from the date it is granted. Except as otherwise provided in the Rules or in a Stock Option Agreement, during the lifetime of the Optionee, the Stock Option shall be exercisable only by the Optionee and shall not be assignable or transferable. In the event of the Optionee's death, any Stock Option shall be transferred to the beneficiary designated by the Optionee for this purpose pursuant to procedures adopted by the Committee.
Each Stock Option Agreement shall set forth the extent to which the Optionee shall have the right to exercise the Stock Option following termination of the Optionee's employment with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries and affiliates. Such provisions shall be determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, need
 
not be uniform among all Stock Options issued pursuant to the Plan, and may reflect distinctions based on the reasons for termination of employment.
An Optionee or a transferee of an Optionee shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Stock Option until the date such interest is recorded as a book entry on the records of the Corporation. No adjustment shall be made for dividends (ordinary or extraordinary, whether in cash, securities or other property) or distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the earlier of the date such interest is recorded as a book entry in the records of the Corporation or the date such stock certificate is issued, except as provided in Section 10.
In connection with the grant of any Stock Option pursuant to the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may also grant a stock appreciation right pursuant to which the Optionee shall have the right to surrender all or part of the unexercised portion of such Stock Option, exercise the stock appreciation right, and thereby obtain payment of an amount equal to (or less than, if the Committee shall so determine in its sole discretion at the time of grant) the difference obtained by subtracting the aggregate exercise price of the Shares subject to the Stock Option (or the portion thereof) so surrendered from the market price (as determined under the Rules) of such Shares on the date of such surrender. The exercise of such stock appreciation right shall be subject to such limitations (including, but not limited to, limitations as to time and amount) as the Committee shall deem appropriate. The payment of a stock appreciation right may be made in Shares (determined with reference to its Fair Market Value on the date of exercise), or in cash, or partly in cash and in Shares, as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee. In the event of the exercise of a stock appreciation right, the underlying Stock Option shall be deemed to have been exercised for all purposes under the Plan, including Section 4.
7. RESTRICTED STOCK.
Restricted Stock Awards shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and shall contain such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, as the Committee in its sole discretion shall deem desirable.
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have complete authority in its sole discretion to determine the persons to whom, and the time or times at which, grants of Restricted Stock shall be made, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock to be awarded, the price (if any) to be paid by the recipient of Restricted Stock, the time or times within which such Awards may be subject to forfeiture, and all other terms and conditions of the Awards. For any Restricted
 
Stock Award, the Corporation shall receive consideration in an amount at least equal to any amount required to be received by the Corporation under Delaware law for the valid issuance of fully paid and nonassesable stock. The Committee may condition the grant of a Restricted Stock Award upon the attainment of specified performance goals (such as earnings per share, total shareholder return, return on capital employed, operating margin, operating expense, or cash flow) or such other factors as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion. Restricted Stock Awards may be granted alone, in addition to or in tandem with other Awards under the Plan.
The terms of each Restricted Stock Award shall be set forth in a Restricted Stock Agreement between the Corporation and the Employee, which Restricted Stock Agreement shall contain such provisions as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of the Plan with respect to such Award. Each Participant receiving a Restricted Stock Award shall have his or her interest in the Restricted Stock recorded as a book entry on the records of the Corporation.
The Shares of Restricted Stock awarded pursuant to this Section 7 shall be subject to the following terms, conditions and restrictions:
 
8. OTHER SHARE-BASED AWARDS.
Other Share-Based Awards may be granted either alone or in addition to or in conjunction with other Awards under the Plan. The Committee may condition the grant of an Other Share-Based Award upon the attainment of specified performance goals (such as earnings per share, total shareholder return, return on capital employed, operating margin, operating expense or cash flow) or such other factors as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion. Awards under this Section 8 may include, but are not limited to, performance shares, stock units, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights not granted in connection with the grant of any Stock Option pursuant to Section 6, dividend equivalents, the grant of Shares conditioned upon some specified event, the ownership for a specified period of time of Shares obtained through the exercise of a Stock Option or the lapse of restrictions on Restricted Stock, the payment of cash based upon the performance of the Shares or the grant of securities convertible into Shares.
Subject to the provisions of Section 14(r) below relating to restricted stock units and to other applicable provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the persons to whom and the time or times at which Other Share-Based Awards shall be made, the number of Shares or other securities, if any, to be granted pursuant to Other Share-Based Awards, and all other conditions of the Other Share-Based Awards, including, without limitation, whether stock appreciation rights not granted in connection with the grant of any Stock Option shall be settled in cash or in Shares. In making an Other Share-Based Award, the Committee may determine that the recipient of an Other Share-Based Award shall be entitled to receive, currently or on a deferred basis, interest
 
or dividends or dividend equivalents with respect to the Shares or other securities covered by the Award, and the Committee may provide that such amounts (if any) shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares or otherwise reinvested. The terms of any Other Share-Based Award shall be set forth in an Other Share-Based Award Agreement between the Corporation and the Employee, which Other Share-Based Award Agreement shall contain such provisions as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of the Plan with respect to such Award.
In addition to the terms and conditions specified in the Other Share-Based Award Agreement, Other Share-Based Awards made pursuant to this Section 8 shall be subject to the following:
9. NONSTOCK AWARDS.
Nonstock Awards may be granted either alone or in addition to or in conjunction with other Awards under the Plan. Awards under this Section 9 may take any form that the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine.
Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have sole and complete authority to determine the persons to whom and the time or times at which Nonstock Awards shall be made, the amount of any Nonstock Award and all other conditions of the Nonstock Awards. The Committee may condition the grant of a Nonstock Award upon the attainment of specified performance goals (such as earnings per share, total shareholder return, return on capital employed, operating margin, operating expense or cash flow) or such other factors as the Committee may determine, in its sole discretion. The terms of any Nonstock Award shall be set forth in Nonstock Award Agreement between the Corporation and the Employee, which Nonstock Award Agreement shall contain such provisions as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out the intent of the Plan with respect to such Award.
 
In addition to the terms and conditions specified in the Nonstock Award Agreement, Nonstock Awards made pursuant to this Section 9 shall be subject to the following:
10. RECAPITALIZATION.
Subject to any required action by the stockholders, the number of Shares covered by the Plan as provided in Section 4, the maximum number of Shares that may be granted to any one individual in any calendar year as provided in Section 5, the number of Shares covered by or referred to in each outstanding Award (other than an Award of Restricted Stock that is outstanding at the time of the event described in this paragraph), and the Exercise Price of each outstanding Stock Option and any price required to be paid for Restricted Stock not yet outstanding at the time of the event described in this paragraph or Other Share-Based Award shall be proportionately adjusted for: (a) any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a subdivision or consolidation of Shares, (b) the payment of a stock dividend (but only of Common Stock) or any other increase or decrease in the number of such Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Corporation, or (c) the declaration of a dividend payable in cash that has a material effect on the price of issued Shares.
Subject to any required action by the stockholders, if the Corporation is the surviving corporation in any merger, consolidation or other reorganization, each outstanding Award (other than an Award of Restricted Stock that is outstanding at such time) shall pertain and apply to the securities to which a holder of the number of Shares subject to the Award would have been entitled. In the event of a dissolution or liquidation of the corporation or a merger, consolidation or other reorganization in which the Corporation is not the surviving corporation, each outstanding Stock Option, each unvested Restricted Stock Award or Other Share-Based Award and each Nonstock Award shall be assumed by the surviving corporation and each Stock Option, unvested Restricted Stock Award and Other Share-Based Award shall pertain to a comparable number of shares in the surviving corporation, unless the terms of the agreement of merger, consolidation or reorganization call for the full vesting and cash out of such Awards.
 
In the event of a change in the Common Stock, which is limited to a change of all of the Corporation's authorized shares with par value into the same number of shares with a different par value or without par value, the shares resulting from any such change shall be deemed to be the Common Stock within the meaning of the Plan.
The Committee shall make equitable adjustments in the number of Shares covered by the Plan and the price or other value of any outstanding Awards in the event of a spin-off or other distribution (other than normal cash dividends) of Corporation assets to stockholders.
To the extent that the foregoing adjustments relate to stock or securities of the Corporation, such adjustments shall be made by the Committee, and the action in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive.
Except as expressly provided in this Section 10, a Participant shall have no rights by reason of any subdivision or consolidation of shares of stock of any class or the payment of any stock dividend or any other increase or decrease in the number of shares of stock of any class or by reason of any dissolution, liquidation, merger or consolidation or spin-off of assets or stock of another corporation, and any issuance by the Corporation of shares of stock of any class or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of Shares subject to the Stock Option.
The grant of an Award pursuant to the Plan shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Corporation to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations or changes of its capital or business structure or to merge or consolidate or to dissolve, liquidate, sell or transfer all or any part of its business or assets.
The Committee shall prescribe rules governing the adjustment of the number of shares covered by the Plan as provided in Section 4 and of Awards outstanding under the Plan in the event that the preferred stock purchase rights issued pursuant to the Corporation's stockholder rights plan or any successor rights plan detach from the Common Stock and become exercisable.
11. FORFEITURE.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if a Participant engages in Misconduct the Committee (or its delegate) may:
 
 
The Committee shall determine in its sole discretion whether the Participant has engaged in any of the acts set forth in subsections (i) through (viii) above, and its determination shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons.
In addition, until any Award is delivered or distributed, such Award is subject to forfeiture if the Participant is indebted to the Corporation or a Subsidiary at the time when the Award becomes payable or distributable. In such case, the Award, to the extent that the amount thereof (determined as of the date payment is scheduled to be made) does not exceed such indebtedness, shall be forfeited and the Participant's indebtedness to the Corporation or Subsidiary shall be extinguished to the extent of such forfeiture.
Any provision of this Section 11 which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such invalid or unenforceable provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Section 11.
12. SECURITIES LAW REQUIREMENTS.
No Shares shall be issued and no Stock Options shall become exercisable pursuant to the Plan unless and until the Corporation has determined that: (i) it and the Participant have taken all actions required to register the Shares under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or perfect an exemption from the registration requirements thereof; (ii) any
 
applicable listing requirement of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock is listed has been satisfied; and (iii) any other applicable provision of state or federal law has been satisfied.
13. AMENDMENTS OF THE PLAN AND AWARDS.
The Board may, insofar as permitted by law, from time to time, with respect to any Shares at the time not subject to Awards, suspend or discontinue the Plan or revise or amend it in any respect whatsoever. However, unless the Board specifically otherwise provides, any revision or amendment that would cause the Plan to fail to comply with Rule 16b-3 or any other requirement of applicable law or regulation if such amendment were not approved by the holders of the Common Stock of the Corporation shall not be effective unless and until the approval of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation is obtained. The foregoing notwithstanding, no amendment, revision, suspension or discontinuation of the Plan (including any amendment to this Section 13) approved by the Board after six months prior to the public announcement of the proposed transaction which, when effected, is a Change in Control or before the date which is two years after the date of a Change in Control (the "Benefit Protection Period") shall be valid or effective if such amendment, revision, suspension or discontinuation would alter the provisions of this Section 13 or adversely affect an Award outstanding under the Plan; provided, however, any amendment, revision, suspension or discontinuation may be effected, even if so approved after such a public announcement, if (a) the amendment or revision is approved after any plans have been abandoned to effect the transaction which, if effected, would have constituted a Change in Control and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred, and (b) within a period of six months after such approval, no other event constituting a Change in Control shall have occurred, and no public announcement of a proposed event which would constitute a Change in Control shall have been made, unless thereafter any plans to effect the Change in Control have been abandoned and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred. Any amendment, revision, suspension or discontinuation of the Plan which is approved by the Board prior to a Change in Control at the request of a third party who effectuates a Change in Control shall be deemed to be an amendment, revision, suspension or discontinuation of the Plan so approved during the Benefit Protection Period.
Subject to the terms and conditions and within the limitations of the Plan, the Committee may amend, cancel, modify, extend or renew outstanding Awards granted under the Plan; provided, however, that the post-termination exercise of an outstanding Stock Option shall not be extended to a date later than the date the Stock Option is scheduled to expire. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Stock Option or, as applicable, any other Award shall be repriced under this Plan.
 
No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan nor any amendment, cancellation or modification of any Award outstanding under it that would adversely affect the right of any Participant in an Award previously granted under the Plan shall be effective without the written consent of the affected Participant.
14. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
The proceeds received by the Corporation from the sale of Common Stock pursuant to the exercise of a Stock Option or the grant of Restricted Stock shall be used for general corporate purposes.
Neither the Plan nor any Award granted under the Plan shall be deemed to give any individual a right to remain employed by the Corporation or a Subsidiary. The Corporation and its Subsidiaries reserve the right to terminate the employment of any Employee at any time and for any reason, which right is hereby reserved.
A Participant shall have no dividend rights, voting rights or other rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares covered by his or her Award prior to the date such interest is recorded as a book entry on the records of the Corporation. No adjustment shall be made for cash dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date when such interest recorded.
A holder of an Other Share-Based Award or a Nonstock Award shall have no rights other than those of a general creditor of the Corporation. Other Share-Based Awards and Nonstock Awards shall represent unfunded and unsecured obligations of the Corporation, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Other Share-Based Award Agreement and of the Nonstock Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee is authorized to arrange for the creation of one or more trusts to fund payments of Other Share-Based Awards or Nonstock Awards payable or to become payable under the Plan. In such case the rights of affected Participants shall be determined with reference to the terms of the applicable trust agreement pursuant to which the trust was created.
 
The granting of a Stock Option shall impose no obligation upon the Optionee to exercise such Stock Option.
The Committee may permit or require a Participant to elect to defer receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant by virtue of the exercise, the satisfaction of any requirements or goals or lapse of restrictions of an Award made under the Plan. Any such payment deferrals shall be governed by the terms of the Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees and shall comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
To the extent required by applicable federal, state, local or foreign law, the recipient of any payment or distribution under the Plan shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Corporation for the satisfaction of any withholding tax obligations that arise by reason of such payment or distribution. The Corporation shall not be required to make such payment or distribution until such obligations are satisfied.
The Committee in its sole discretion may permit a Participant to satisfy all or part of his or her withholding tax obligations incident to the exercise of a Stock Option or the vesting of Restricted Stock by having the Corporation withhold a portion of the Shares that otherwise would be issued to him or her. The payment of withholding taxes by surrendering Shares to the Corporation, if permitted by the Committee, shall be subject to such restrictions as the Committee may impose, including any restrictions required by rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Payments and other benefits received by a Participant under the Plan shall not be deemed a part of a Participant's regular, recurring compensation for purposes of the termination indemnity or severance pay law of any country, state or political subdivision thereof and shall not be included in, nor have any effect on, the determination of benefits under any other employee benefit plan or similar arrangement provided by the Corporation or a Subsidiary unless expressly so provided by such other plan or arrangement, or except where the Committee expressly determines that inclusion of an Award or portion of an Award is necessary to accurately reflect competitive compensation practices or to recognize
 
that an Award has been made in lieu of a portion of competitive annual cash compensation. Awards under the Plan may be made in combination with or in tandem with, or as alternatives to, grants, awards or payments under any Corporation or Subsidiary plans. The Plan notwithstanding, the Corporation or any Subsidiary may adopt such other compensation programs and additional compensation arrangements as it deems necessary to attract, retain and reward Employees for their service with the Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
The costs and expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Corporation.
The Rules may provide that in the case of an Award that is not forfeitable by its terms upon the death of the Participant, the Participant may designate a beneficiary with respect to such Award in the event of death of a Participant. If such beneficiary is the executor or administrator of the estate of the Participant, any rights with respect to such Award may be transferred to the person or persons or entity (including a trust, if permitted under rules or procedures approved by the Committee) entitled thereto by bequest of or inheritance from the holder of such Award.
The Committee shall have the authority to adopt such modifications, procedures and subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with provisions of the laws of foreign countries in which the Corporation or its Subsidiaries may operate to assure the viability of the benefits of Awards made to Participants employed in such countries and to meet the intent of the Plan.
The provisions of the Plan shall be deemed severable and the validity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof.
The Plan shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its successors and assigns and the Corporation shall require any successor or assign to expressly assume and agree to perform the Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform it if no such succession or assignment had taken place. The term "the Corporation" as used herein shall include such successors and assigns. The term "successors and assigns" as used herein shall mean a corporation or other entity acquiring all or
 
substantially all the assets and business of the Corporation (including the Plan) whether by operation of law or otherwise.
No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of the Plan to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions of conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
The Committee is authorized in its sole discretion to establish a grantor trust for the purpose of providing security for the payment of Awards under the Plan; provided, however, that no Participant shall be considered to have a beneficial ownership interest (or any other sort of interest) in any specific asset of the Corporation or of its subsidiaries or affiliates as a result of the creation of such trust or the transfer of funds or other property to such trust.
The Committee shall have the authority to grant Awards as an alternative to or as the form of payment for grants or rights earned or due under other compensation plans or arrangements of the Corporation, including, without limitation, any plans or arrangements of any employer acquired by the Corporation.
The law of the State of California shall govern all questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Plan, without regard to such state's conflict of laws rules.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, except with respect to a maximum of five percent (5%) of the Shares authorized for issuance under Section 4(b), any Awards of Restricted Stock or restricted stock units which vest on the basis of the Participant's continued employment with the Corporation or a Subsidiary or affiliate shall not provide for vesting which is any more rapid that annual pro rata vesting over a three (3) year period and any Awards of Restricted Stock or restricted stock units which vest upon the attainment of performance goals shall provide for a performance period of at least twelve (12) months.
 
15. APPROVAL OF STOCKHOLDERS.
Material amendments to the Plan shall be subject to approval by affirmative vote of the stockholders of the Corporation in accordance with applicable law and the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange.

 
Exhibit 10.5
 
 
 
     1.
ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
     (a) The Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees II is effective January 1, 2005 and is the successor plan to the Corporation's Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees (formerly the Salary Deferral Plan for Management Employees) (the "Prior Plan"). Effective December 31, 2004, the Prior Plan was frozen and no new contributions shall be made to it; provided, however, that any deferrals made under the Prior Plan before January 1, 2005 continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of the Prior Plan as in effect on December 31, 2004 or on the date of any later amendment, provided that such amendment is not a material modification of the Prior Plan under Code section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
     (b) Any deferrals made under the Prior Plan after December 31, 2004 are deemed to have been made under the Plan and all such deferrals are governed by the terms and conditions of the Plan as it may be amended from time to time.
     (c) The Plan is designed to enhance the ability of the Corporation and its Subsidiaries to attract, motivate and retain executive and other key employees.
     (d) The Plan is intended to qualify as an unfunded ERISA pension plan maintained by an employer for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, as described in 26 C.F.R.  2520.104-23(d) and to comply with the requirements of Code section 409A.
     2.
DEFINITIONS.
     For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
     (a) "" means the bookkeeping account maintained on behalf of a Participant to which shall be credited any amount described in Section 5.
Account
     (b) "" means the person designated as such by the Participant pursuant to Section 8(b).
Beneficiary
     (c) "" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
Board
     (d) "" means a change in control' as that term is defined in Article VI of the bylaws of the Corporation, as such bylaws may be amended from time to time.
Change in Control
     (e) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
     (f) "" means the Committee appointed by the Board to administer the Plan as provided in Section 3.
Committee
     (g) "" means Chevron Corporation, a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation.
Corporation
     (h) "" means an executive or other key employee (including an officer, whether or not a director) of the Corporation or a Subsidiary who holds a position of significant responsibility or whose performance or potential contribution, in the judgment of the Committee, would benefit the future success of the Corporation and who is designated by the Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan.
Eligible Employee
     (i) "" means an individual who is a salaried employee on the payroll of the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
Employee
     (j) "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
     (k) "" means the Long-Term Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, as amended from time to time.
Long-Term Incentive Plan
     (l) "" means the Management Incentive Plan of Chevron Corporation, as amended from time to time.
Management Incentive Plan
     (m) "" means an Eligible Employee described in Section 4.
Participant
     (n) "" means the Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees II, as set forth herein and as amended from time to time.
Plan
     (o) "" means the calendar year.
Plan Year
     (p) "" means the Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Management Employees.
Prior Plan
     (q) "" mean the rules promulgated by the Committee pursuant to the authority granted in Section 3(c).
Rules
     (r) "" means any corporation or entity in which the Corporation directly or indirectly controls more than 50% of the total voting power of all classes of its stock having voting powers and which the Board has designated as a Subsidiary for purposes of the Plan.
Subsidiary
     3.
ADMINISTRATION.
     (a) 
The Committee.
     The Plan shall be administered by the Management Compensation Committee of the Board, or any successor thereto. The Board may at any time replace the Management Compensation Committee with another Committee.
 
     (b) 
Actions by the Committee.
     The Committee shall hold meetings at such times and places as it may determine. Acts approved by a majority of the members of the Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts reduced to or approved in writing by a majority of the members of the Committee, shall be the valid acts of the Committee.
     (c) 
Powers of the Committee.
     The Committee shall have the authority to administer the Plan in its sole discretion. To this end, the Committee is authorized to construe and interpret the Plan, to promulgate, amend and rescind Rules relating to the implementation of the Plan and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan, including the selection of Employees who shall be eligible to participate in the Plan. Subject to the requirements of applicable law, the Committee may designate persons other than members of the Committee to carry out its responsibilities and may prescribe such conditions and limitations as it may deem appropriate. Any determination, decision or action of the Committee in connection with the construction, interpretation, administration, or application of the Plan shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons participating in the Plan and any person validly claiming under or through persons participating in the Plan.
     (d) 
Liability of Committee Members.
     No member of the Board or the Committee will be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Board or the Committee with respect to the Plan.
     (e) 
Administration of the Plan Following a Change in Control.
     Within 30 days after the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Committee shall appoint an independent organization which shall thereafter administer the Plan and have all of the powers and duties formerly held and exercised by the Committee pursuant to Section 3(c) with respect to the Plan. Upon such appointment, the Committee shall cease to have any responsibility with respect to the administration of the Plan.
     4.
PARTICIPATION.
     Each Eligible Employee who elects to defer base salary under the Plan in accordance with the Rules or who makes a deferral election available under the terms of the Management Incentive Plan or Long-Term Incentive Plan shall automatically become a Participant in the Plan.
     5.
DEFERRED COMPENSATION.
     The Committee shall promulgate Rules governing (i) elections by Eligible Employees to defer base salary and (ii) the establishment of Accounts to which shall be credited amounts deferred pursuant to an election described in (i) or any deferral election made available under the terms of the Management Incentive Plan or the Long-Term Incentive Plan, (iii) the crediting of interest or earnings to such Accounts, and (iv) the time, form and value of distributions from such Accounts.
 
     6.
FORFEITURE.
     (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, if a Participant engages in Misconduct the Committee (or its delegate) may determine that any balance in the Participant's Account attributable to awards made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Management Incentive Plan on or after June 29, 2005 and the date of the Participant's Misconduct shall be forfeited.
     (b) For this purpose, "Misconduct" means that:
          (1) the Corporation has been required to prepare an accounting restatement due to material noncompliance, as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, and the Administrator (or its delegate) has determined in its sole discretion that a Participant (i) had knowledge of the material noncompliance or the circumstances that gave rise to such noncompliance and failed to take reasonable steps to bring it to the attention of appropriate individuals within the Corporation or (ii) personally and knowingly engaged in practices which materially contributed to the circumstances that enabled a material noncompliance to occur; or
          (2) a Participant discloses to others, or takes or uses for his or her own purpose or the purpose of others, any trade secrets, confidential information, knowledge, data or know-how or any other proprietary information or intellectual property belonging to the Corporation and obtained by the Participant during the term of his or her employment, whether or not they are the Participant's work product. Examples of such confidential information or trade secrets include, without limitation, customer lists, supplier lists, pricing and cost data, computer programs, delivery routes, advertising plans, wage and salary data, financial information, research and development plans, processes, equipment, product information and all other types and categories of information as to which the Participant knows or has reason to know that the Corporation intends or expects secrecy to be maintained; or
          (3) a Participant fails to promptly return all documents and other tangible items belonging to the Corporation in the Participant's possession or control, including all complete or partial copies, recordings, abstracts, notes or reproductions of any kind made from or about such documents or information contained therein, upon termination of employment, whether pursuant to retirement or otherwise; or
          (4) a Participant directly or indirectly engages in, becomes employed by, or renders services, advice or assistance to any business in competition with the Corporation at any time during the twelve months following termination of employment with the Corporation. As used herein, "business in competition" means any person, organization or enterprise which is engaged in or is about to become engaged in any line of business engaged in by the Corporation at the time of the termination of the Participant's employment with the Corporation; or
          (5) a Participant fails to inform any new employer, before accepting employment, of the terms of this section and of the Participant's continuing obligation to maintain the confidentiality of the trade secrets and other confidential information belonging to the Corporation and obtained by the Participant during the term of his or her employment with the Corporation; or
 
          (6) a Participant induces or attempts to induce, directly or indirectly, any of the Corporation's customers, employees, representatives or consultants to terminate, discontinue or cease working with or for the Corporation, or to breach any contract with the Corporation, in order to work with or for, or enter into a contract with, the Participant or any third party; or
          (7) a Participant engages in conduct which is not in good faith and which disrupts, damages, impairs or interferes with the business, reputation or employees of the Corporation; or
          (8) a Participant committed an act of embezzlement, fraud or theft with respect to the property of the Corporation.
     The Committee (or its delegate) shall determine in its sole discretion whether the Participant has engaged in any of the acts set forth in subsections 1 through 8 above, and its determination shall be conclusive and binding on all interested persons.
     In addition, until a Participant's Account is delivered or distributed, such Account is subject to forfeiture if the Participant is indebted to the Corporation or a Subsidiary at the time when the Account becomes payable or distributable. In such case, the Account, to the extent that the amount thereof (determined as of the date payment is scheduled to be made) does not exceed such indebtedness shall be forfeited, and the Participant's indebtedness to the Corporation or Subsidiary shall be extinguished to the extent of such forfeiture.
     Any provision of this Section 6 which is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable should be construed or limited in a manner that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to the business objectives intended by such invalid or unenforceable provision, without invalidating or rendering unenforceable the remaining provisions of this Section 6.
     7.
AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF THE PLAN.
     Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7, the Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time. In the event of such termination, the Accounts of Participants shall be paid at such times and in such forms as shall be determined pursuant to the Rules. No amendment, suspension or termination (other than an amendment to discontinue future salary deferrals) approved by the Board after six months prior to the public announcement of a proposed transaction which, when effected, is a Change in Control or before the date which is two years after the date of a Change in Control (the Benefit Protection Period') shall be valid or effective if such amendment, suspension or termination would alter the terms of these resolutions or adversely affect the amount of a Participant's Account under the Plan, whether or not the Participant's employment had terminated at the time the amendment, suspension or termination was approved; provided, however, any amendment, suspension or termination may be effected, even if so approved after such a public announcement, if (a) the amendment, suspension or termination is approved after any plans have been abandoned to effect the transaction which, if effected, would have constituted a Change in Control and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred, and (b) within a period of six months after such approval, no other event constituting a Change in Control shall have occurred, and no public announcement of a proposed event which would constitute a Change in Control shall have
 
been made, unless thereafter any plans to effect the Change in Control have been abandoned and the event which would have constituted the Change in Control has not occurred. Any amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan which is so approved prior to a Change in Control at the request of a third party who effectuates a Change in Control shall be deemed to be an amendment, suspension or termination approved during the Benefit Protection Period.
     8.
GENERAL.
     (a) 
No Right of Employment.
     Nothing contained in the Plan nor any action of the Committee pursuant to the Plan shall give any employee any right to remain in the employ of the Corporation or to impair the Corporation's right to terminate the employment of any employee at any time, with or without cause, which right is hereby reserved.
     (b) 
Designation of Beneficiaries.
     Participants may designate on the prescribed form one or more Beneficiaries to whom distribution shall be made of any outstanding Account balance at the time of the Participant's death. A Participant may change such designation at any time by filing the prescribed form in the manner prescribed by the Committee. If a Beneficiary has not been designated or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Participant, distribution will be made to the Participant's surviving spouse as Beneficiary if then living or, if not living or if none, in equal shares to the then living children of the Participant as Beneficiaries or, if none, to the Participant's estate as Beneficiary.
     (c) 
Domestic Relations Orders.
     The procedures established by the Corporation for the determination of the qualified status of domestic relations orders and for making distributions under qualified domestic relations orders, as provided in Section 206(d) of ERISA, shall apply to the Plan to the extent that such procedures are consistent with Code section 409A.
     (d) 
Costs of the Plan.
     The costs and expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Corporation.
     (e) 
Severability.
     The provisions of the Plan shall be deemed severable and the validity or unenforceability of any provision shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the other provisions hereof.
     (f) 
Binding Effect of Plan.
     The Plan shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation, its successors and assigns, and the Corporation shall require any successor or assign to expressly assume and agree to perform the Plan in the same manner and to the same extent that the Corporation would be required to perform it if no such succession or assignment had taken place. The term "the Corporation" as used herein shall include such successors and assigns. The term
 
"successors and assigns" as used herein shall mean a corporation or other entity acquiring all or substantially all the assets and business of the Corporation (including the Plan) whether by operation of law or otherwise.
     (g) 
No Waiver of Breach.
     No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of the Plan to be performed by such other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions of conditions at the same or at any prior or subsequent time.
     (h) 
No Assignment.
     The interest and property rights of any Participant under the Plan shall not be subject to option nor be assignable either by voluntary or involuntary assignment or by operation of law, including (without limitation) bankruptcy, garnishment, attachment or other creditor's process, and any act in violation of this Section 8(h) shall be void.
     (i) 
Applicable Law.
     The Plan shall be administered, construed and governed in accordance with ERISA and Code section 409A and, to the extent not preempted by ERISA, the laws of the State of California.
     (j) 
Participant's Rights Unsecured.
     This Plan is not intended and shall not be construed to require the Corporation to fund any of the benefits provided hereunder or to establish a trust for such purpose. The interest under the Plan of any Participant and such Participant's right to receive a distribution of his or her Account shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Corporation. The Account shall be a bookkeeping entry only and no Participant shall have any interest in or claim against any specific asset of the Corporation pursuant to the Plan.
     (k) 
Authority to Establish a Grantor Trust.
     The Committee is authorized in its sole discretion to establish a grantor trust for the purpose of providing security for the payment of benefits under the Plan; provided, however, that no Participant shall be considered to have a beneficial ownership interest (or any other sort of interest) in any specific asset of the Corporation or of its subsidiaries or affiliates as a result of the creation of such trust or the transfer of funds or other property to such trust.
     (l) 
Other Benefit Plans.
     To the extent permitted by applicable law, a Participant's deferral elections made pursuant to this Plan shall be disregarded for purposes of determining the Participant's benefits under any other benefit plan or program established or maintained by the Corporation or its Subsidiaries.

 
Exhibit 10.6
The Chevron Corporation Non-Employee Directors' Equity Compensation and Deferral Plan is a merger and an amendment and restatement of the Chevron Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors and the Chevron Corporation Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors. The purposes of the Plan are to attract and retain qualified individuals not employed by Chevron Corporation or its subsidiaries or affiliates to serve on the Board of Directors of the Corporation and to align the interests of such Directors with those of the stockholders of the Corporation.
For purposes of the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
 
 
Members of the Board who are not employees of the Corporation or its subsidiaries or affiliates are eligible for Awards. A Director may receive more than one Award, including Awards of the same type, subject to the restrictions of the Plan.
Each Director may be awarded an Option to purchase that number of Shares determined pursuant to the Rules. All such Options shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and shall contain such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, as the Committee in its sole discretion shall deem desirable.
 
Awards of Restricted Stock shall be subject to the following terms and conditions and to such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the express provisions of the Plan, as the Committee in its sole discretion shall deem desirable.
 
 
 
 
 
 


