FILE:CVX/CVX-8K-20071102091446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 2, 2007, Chevron Corporation issued a press release announcing unaudited third quarter 2007 net income of $3.7 billion. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
The information included herein and in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 2, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
News Release
EXHIBIT 99.1 FOR RELEASE AT 5:30 AM PDT NOVEMBER 2, 2007
- Chevron Corporation (NYSE: CVX) today reported net income of $3.7 billion ($1.75 per share - diluted) for the third quarter 2007, compared with $5 billion ($2.29 per share - diluted) in the year-ago period.
SAN RAMON, Calif., November 2, 2007
          Results for the 2007 quarter included approximately $400 million ($0.19 per share) of net charges associated with nonrecurring items, about the same amount recorded for such items a year ago.
          For the first nine months of 2007, net income was $13.8 billion ($6.45 per share - diluted), compared with $13.4 billion ($6.06 per share - diluted) in the corresponding 2006 period.
          "Earnings declined due mainly to weak refining and marketing conditions in the United States," said Chairman and CEO Dave O'Reilly. "Margins were squeezed as escalating costs for crude-oil feedstocks could not be fully recovered in a U.S. marketplace that was well-supplied with gasoline and other refined products."
          In the upstream business, O'Reilly said earnings declined slightly from last year's third quarter. Although prices for crude oil increased between periods, this benefit to earnings was more than offset by the impacts of lower sales volumes due to the timing of crude-oil cargo liftings and higher operating and depreciation expenses.
          "Capital and exploratory expenditures during the third quarter totaled $5.2 billion, up more than a billion dollars from a year earlier," O'Reilly added. "We also retired approximately $2 billion of debt during this year's third quarter and purchased $2 billion of Chevron common stock in the open market.
 
We have now completed the $5 billion common stock buyback program that began last December and have initiated a new program to acquire up to $15 billion of our common shares over the next three years."
          In additional comments on the upstream and geothermal businesses, O'Reilly cited recent milestones and achievements in a number of countries that included:
          O'Reilly also noted recent events in the company's downstream business connected with upgrades to the refining network and the disposition of marketing assets not in the company's areas of market strength:
          Worldwide oil-equivalent production was approximately 2.6 million barrels per day in the third quarter 2007, a decline of about 100,000 barrels per day from the corresponding 2006 period, due mainly to the effect of the conversion of operating service agreements in Venezuela to joint-stock companies.
          
U.S. Upstream
          U.S. upstream income of $1.14 billion in the third quarter 2007 decreased $134 million from the same period last year. The decline was mainly associated with charges of approximately $100 million for adjustments to asset retirement obligations that have been retained after properties were sold. The benefit
 
of higher average prices between periods was more than offset by the impact of lower production and higher operating expenses.
          The average sales price per barrel of crude oil and natural gas liquids was approximately $67 in the third quarter 2007, an increase of about $5 from the corresponding 2006 period. The average sales price of natural gas decreased about 50 cents per thousand cubic feet to $5.43.
          Net oil-equivalent production of 741,000 barrels per day declined 4 percent from the 2006 quarter. The net liquids component of production was about 1 percent lower at 458,000 barrels per day. Net natural gas production was down 8 percent to approximately 1.7 billion cubic feet per day, due mainly to normal field declines.
          
International Upstream
          International upstream earnings of $2.30 billion increased from $2.23 billion in the 2006 quarter. A benefit to income from higher sales prices for liquids and natural gas in the 2007 quarter was largely offset by lower sales volumes due to the timing of certain cargo liftings and higher operating and depreciation expenses. Included in the 2007 quarter were nonrecurring charges of approximately $250 million related to asset write-downs and income tax items, compared with charges for income tax items in the year-ago quarter of about $300 million.
          The average sales price for crude oil and natural gas liquids in the 2007 quarter increased more than $5 from a year earlier to $67 per barrel, while the average price of natural gas was up 12 cents to $3.78 per thousand cubic feet.
          Net oil-equivalent production of 1,850,000 barrels per day decreased 4 percent from the year-ago period due to the effect on liquids production of the October 2006 conversion of operating service agreements to joint-stock companies in Venezuela. The net liquids component of production declined about 8 percent from a year ago to 1,302,000 barrels per day, while net natural gas production increased 5 percent to 3.3 billion cubic feet per day.
          
U.S. Downstream
          U.S. downstream incurred a loss of $110 million in the third quarter 2007, compared with income of $831 million a year earlier. The decline was mainly the result of weaker margins for refined products and refinery downtime. Results for the 2007 quarter included approximately $50 million of charges primarily associated with environmental remediation costs.
 
          Refined products sales volumes were 1,450,000 barrels per day in the third quarter 2007, down 3 percent from a year earlier primarily on a decline in sales of gas oil and jet fuel. Branded gasoline sales volumes of 645,000 barrels per day increased 3 percent between periods. Refinery crude input was down 168,000 barrels per day, primarily due to the effects of a planned crude unit shutdown at the company's refinery in El Segundo, California, and a mid-August fire at the refinery in Pascagoula, Mississippi. The crude unit damaged in the fire is expected to be out of service until the first quarter of next year.
          
International Downstream
          International downstream earned $487 million in the 2007 quarter, a decrease of $123 million from the year-ago period. Earnings in 2007 included a $265 million gain on the sale of the company's fuels marketing business in the Benelux countries, which was partially offset by about $100 million of charges for asset write-downs and employee termination benefits. Otherwise, refined-product margins declined significantly between periods.
          Total refined-product sales volumes of 2,038,000 barrels per day were 4 percent lower than last year's quarter. Excluding the impact of the sale of the company's assets in the Benelux countries, sales volumes were flat between quartersRefinery crude input was essentially unchanged between periods, as the effect of the sale of the company's interest in the Nerefco Refinery in March 2007 was substantially offset by higher crude input at most of the company's other refineries.
.
          Chemical operations earned $103 million in the 2007 third quarter, compared with $168 million a year ago. Results for 2007 included an approximate $40 million charge for the cost of environmental remediation. Margins were lower on the sale of commodity chemicals by the company's 50 percent-owned Chevron Phillips Chemical Company LLC, and operating expenses were higher at the company's Oronite subsidiary.
          All Other includes the company's interest in Dynegy prior to its sale in May 2007, mining operations, power generation businesses, worldwide cash management and debt financing activities,
 
corporate administrative functions, insurance operations, real estate activities, alternative fuels and technology companies.
          Net charges in the third quarter 2007 were $193 million, up $98 million from the year-ago period due mainly to an increase in various corporate expenses, including income taxes. Results in 2007 included approximately $100 million of charges for environmental remediation costs and asset write-downs. The year-ago quarter included charges of about $100 million for environmental remediation.
          Sales and other operating revenues in the third quarter 2007 were $53 billion, essentially unchanged from a year earlier. For the first nine months of 2007, sales and other operating revenues were $154 billion, down from $159 billion in the year-ago period. The decline for the first nine months was associated with the impact of an accounting-rule change beginning in the second quarter 2006 that requires certain purchase and sale contracts with the same counterparty to be netted for reporting.
          Capital and exploratory expenditures in the first nine months of 2007 were $13.8 billion, compared with $11.5 billion in the corresponding 2006 period. The amounts included approximately $1.7 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, for the company's share of expenditures by affiliates, which did not require cash outlays by the company. Expenditures for upstream projects represented about 80 percent of the companywide total in 2007.
Chevron's discussion of third quarter 2007 earnings with security analysts will take place on Friday, November 2, 2007, at 8:00 a.m. PDT. A webcast of the meeting will be available in a listen-only mode to individual investors, media and other interested parties on Chevron's Web site at under the "Investors" heading. Additional financial and operating information is contained in the Investor Relations Earnings Supplement that is available under "Financial Reports" on the Web site.
www.chevron.com
Chevron will issue a press release containing selected fourth quarter 2007 interim company and industry performance data and post the same information on its Web site on Thursday, January 10, 2008, at 2:00 p.m. PST
.
Interested parties may view this interim data at under the "Investors" heading.
www.chevron.com
     
This press release of Chevron Corporation contains forward-looking statements relating to Chevron's operations that are based on management's current expectations, estimates and projections about the petroleum, chemicals and other energy-related industries. Words such as "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "targets," "projects," "believes," "seeks," "schedules," "estimates," "budgets" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control and are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed or forecasted in such forward-looking statements. The reader should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Unless legally required, Chevron undertakes no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
     
Among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements are crude oil and natural gas prices; refining margins and marketing margins; chemicals prices and competitive conditions affecting supply and demand for aromatics, olefins and additives products; actions of competitors; the competitiveness of alternate energy sources or product substitutes;
 
technological developments; the results of operations and financial condition of equity affiliates; the inability or failure of the company's joint-venture partners to fund their share of operations and development activities; the potential failure to achieve expected net production from existing and future crude oil and natural gas development projects; potential delays in the development, construction or start-up of planned projects; the potential disruption or interruption of the company's net production or manufacturing facilities or delivery/transportation networks due to war, accidents, political events, civil unrest, severe weather or crude-oil production quotas that might be imposed by OPEC (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries); the potential liability for remedial actions under existing or future environmental regulations and litigation; significant investment or product changes under existing or future environmental statutes, regulations and litigation; the potential liability resulting from pending or future litigation; the company's acquisition or disposition of assets; government-mandated sales, divestitures, recapitalizations, changes in fiscal terms or restrictions on scope of company operations; foreign currency movements compared with the U.S. dollar; the effects of changed accounting rules under generally accepted accounting principles promulgated by rule-setting bodies; and the factors set forth under the heading "Risk Factors" on pages 31 and 32 of the company's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, such statements could be affected by general domestic and international economic and political conditions. Unpredictable or unknown factors not discussed in this report could also have material adverse effects on forward-looking statements.
 
-1-
                    (unaudited)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
 
-2-
                    (unaudited)
INCOME (LOSS) BY MAJOR OPERATING AREA
SELECTED BALANCE SHEET ACCOUNT DATA
CAPITAL AND EXPLORATORY EXPENDITURES
(2)
 
-3-
OPERATING STATISTICS
(1)


