Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The following discussion highlights significant factors influencing the consolidated results of operations and financial position of Cincinnati Financial Corporation (CFC). It should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, Pages 14 and 15 and Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes, beginning on Page 58. Among the various factors that influence the consolidated results of operations and financial position of the company, management considers its relationships with independent agencies to be the most significant. To continue to achieve its performance targets, the company must maintain its strong relationships with the select group of agencies with which it does business, write a significant portion of each agencys business and attract new agencies. The company seeks to be an indispensable partner in each agencys success. The company measures its accomplishment of this objective based on being the largest or second largest carrier in each agency, either by dollars of premium or number of policies written, depending on the agencys mix of business. As described in the safe harbor statement below, some factors could affect relationships with its independent agencies and limit opportunities for growth. Management is responsible for monitoring and managing those risk factors. In Item 1, Business, Page 1, and the Results of Operations, Page 22, management covers factors that it believes ensure it can sustain its relationships with independent agencies. In addition, the Managements Discussion and Analysis reviews other important factors relating to the outlook, including its investing and reserving philosophy. Topics addressed in the Managements Discussion and Analysis include: 10 K Page Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 18 Results of Operations Consolidated 22 Property Casualty Operations 24 Commercial Lines 27 Personal Lines 32 Life Insurance 36 Investments 38 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow 42 Assets 43 Liabilities 45 Shareholders Equity 46 Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk begins on 47. Safe Harbor Statement The following discussion contains certain forward looking statements that involve potential risks and uncertainties. The companys future results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: recession or other economic conditions resulting in lower demand for insurance products unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to changes in weather patterns, environmental events or other causes increased frequency and or severity of claims events or conditions that could weaken or harm the companys relationships with its independent agencies and limit opportunities for growth, including a downgrade of the companys financial strength ratings, concerns that doing business with the company is too difficult or perceptions that the companys level of service is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace delays in the development, implementation and benefits of technology enhancements amount of reinsurance purchased and financial strength of reinsurers inaccurate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates sustained decline in overall stock market values negatively affecting the companys equity portfolio, in particular a sustained decline in market value of Fifth Third Bancorp shares events that lead to a significant decline in the market value of a particular security and impairment of the asset decreased ability to generate growth in investment income insurance regulatory actions, legislation or court decisions that increase expenses or place the company at a disadvantage in the marketplace adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures impacting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain. Readers are cautioned that the company undertakes no obligation to review or update the forward looking statements included in this material. 17 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Cincinnati Financial Corporations financial statements are prepared using GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 58. In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the companys critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent auditor. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting policies, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may be appropriate. Property Casualty Insurance Loss Reserves The most significant estimates relate to the companys reserves for property casualty loss and loss expenses. Insurance loss reserves are affected directly by managements reserving philosophy. Management bases the estimates on company experience and information from internal analysis, and obtains additional information from consulting outside actuaries. Reserve estimates are established for the total of unpaid loss and loss expenses, including estimates for claims that have been reported, estimates for claims that have been incurred but not yet reported and estimates of loss expenses associated with processing and settling those claims. Reserves are allocated to various lines of business. For reported claims, management establishes case reserves within the parameters of coverage provided in the policy. For claims incurred but not yet reported, management uses a variety of tools, including actuarial and statistical analysis, to estimate reserves. Loss reserves are reduced by the estimated amount of salvage and subrogation. At year end 2003, the total reserve balance, net of reinsurance, was $2.845 billion compared with $2.608 billion at year end 2002 and $2.352 billion at year end 2001. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 64, for a reconciliation of property casualty reserve balances with the loss and loss expenses liability on the balance sheet. The increase in reserves in each year reflected the increases in policies and coverage in force, loss development reflecting the trend toward larger average losses and managements conclusions regarding adequate reserve levels. Management believes that the stability of the companys business makes its historic data the most important source for establishing adequate reserve levels. Traditionally, management and the outside actuaries have conducted a thorough evaluation in the calendar fourth quarter of the adequacy of reserves as of the end of the third quarter of each year. As a result, the most significant variation in reserves traditionally has been implemented in the fourth quarter. In the quarters following, less detailed but continuous reviews of reserve adequacy are made and any resulting adjustments are reflected in that quarters results. In 2004 and beyond, management plans to conduct more extensive analysis of reserve adequacy each quarter. While the company believes that reported reserves make a reasonable provision for all unpaid loss and loss expense obligations, the estimation process involves a number of variables and assumptions. Management believes this uncertainty is mitigated by the historic stability of the companys book of business and by its continuous review of estimates. As experience develops and new information becomes known, the reserve is adjusted as appropriate. In this process, the company monitors trends in the industry, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional exposures to loss. If management determines that reserves established in prior years were not sufficient or were excessive, the change is reflected in current year results. The companys outside actuary provides management with an opinion regarding the acceptable range for adequate statutory reserves based on generally accepted actuarial guidelines. Historically, the company has established adequate reserves in the upper half of the actuarys range. This approach has resulted in recognition of reserve redundancies in each of the past 10 years, which moderated beginning in 2000. Modestly redundant reserves support the companys business strategy to retain high financial strength ratings and remain a market for agencies business in all market conditions. The outside actuarys range for adequate statutory reserves, net of reinsurance, was $2.696 billion to $2.906 billion for 2003; $2.492 billion to $2.674 billion for 2002; and $2.267 billion to $2.429 billion for 2001. The assumptions used to establish the recommended ranges were consistent with prior year practices as described above and in Item 1, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 3. Slowness to recognize or respond to new or unexpected loss patterns, such as those caused by the risk factors cited in the companys safe harbor statement, could lead to a rise in reserves, which would lead to a higher loss and loss expense ratio; each percentage point increase in the loss and loss expenses ratio would reduce pre tax income by $27 million based on 2003 earned premiums. 18 Table of Contents Highly Uncertain Exposures In the normal course of its business, the company may provide coverage for exposures for which estimates of losses are highly uncertain. Most significant are catastrophic events. Due to the nature of these events, management is unable to predict precisely the frequency or potential cost of catastrophe occurrences. However, in an effort to control such losses, the company does not market property casualty insurance in California, reviews aggregate exposures to huge disasters and monitors its exposure in certain coastal regions. Analysis of a once in 250 year event affirms the company has catastrophe exposure to: hurricanes in the gulf and southeastern coastal regions earthquakes in the New Madrid fault zone, which lies within the central Mississippi valley, extending from northeast Arkansas through southeast Missouri, western Tennessee and western Kentucky to southern Illinois tornado, wind and hail in the Midwest, Southeast and mid Atlantic regions The company uses the Risk Management Solutions and Applied Insurance Research models to evaluate exposures and aid in determining appropriate reinsurance coverage programs. Reinsurance mitigates the risk of these highly uncertain exposures and limits the maximum net loss that can arise from large risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure. In conjunction with these activities, the company also continues to explore and analyze credible scientific evidence, including the impact of global climate change, that may affect its exposure under insurance policies. Managements decisions regarding the appropriate level of property casualty risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in the companys underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions. See Reinsurance, Page 26, for a discussion of the companys 2004 reinsurance treaties. Asset Impairment Fixed income and equity investments are the companys largest assets. Certain estimates and assumptions made by management relative to investment portfolio assets are critical. The companys asset impairment committee continually monitors investments and all other assets for signs of other than temporary and or permanent impairment. Among other signs, the committee monitors significant decreases in the market value of the assets, changes in legal factors or in the business climate, an accumulation of costs in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset, uncollectability of all other assets, or other factors such as bankruptcy, deterioration of creditworthiness, failure to pay interest or dividends or signs indicating that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of the companys impairment policy resulted in other than temporary impairment charges and write offs of investments that reduced the companys income before income taxes by $80 million, $98 million and $45 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Other than temporary impairment in the value of securities is defined by the company as declines in valuation that meet specific criteria established in the asset impairment policy. Such declines often occur in conjunction with events taking place in the overall economy and market, combined with events specific to the industry or operations of the issuing corporation. These specific criteria include a declining trend in market value, the extent of the market value decline and the length of time the value of the security has been depressed, as well as subjective measures such as pending events and issuer liquidity. Generally, these declines in valuation are greater than might be anticipated when viewed in the context of overall economic and market conditions. See Investment Portfolio, Page 44, for information regarding valuation of the invested assets. Impairment charges are recorded for other than temporary declines in value, if, in the asset impairment committees judgment, there is little expectation that the value will be recouped in the foreseeable future. The impairment policy defines a security as distressed when it is trading below 70 percent of book value or has a Moodys or Standard Poors credit rating below B3/B . Distressed securities are monitored as potentially impaired. The security may be written down in the event of a declining market value for four consecutive quarters with quarter end market value below 50 percent of book value, or when a securitys market value is 50 percent below book value for three consecutive quarters. A sudden and severe drop in market value that does not otherwise meet the above criteria is reviewed for possible immediate impairment. Not withstanding the above, the companys portfolio managers constantly monitor the status of their assigned portfolios for indications of potential problems or issues that may be possible impairment issues. If a significant impairment indicator is noted, the portfolio managers even more closely scrutinize the security. When evaluating other than temporary impairments, the committee considers the companys ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover a significant percentage of cost. Because of the companys investment philosophy and strong capitalization, it can hold securities that have the potential to recover value until their scheduled redemption, when they might otherwise be deemed impaired. Investment assets that have already been impaired are evaluated based on their adjusted book value and further written down, if deemed appropriate. The decision to sell or write down an asset with impairment indications reflects, at least in part, managements opinion that the security no longer meets the companys investment expectations. See Item 7(a), Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, Page 47, for detailed information regarding securities trading in a continuous loss position at December 31, 2003. Other than temporary declines in the fair value of investments are recognized in net income as realized losses at the time when facts and circumstances indicate such write downs are warranted. Permanent impairment charges (write offs) are defined as those for which management believes there is little potential for future recovery, for example, following the bankruptcy of the issuing corporation. These permanent declines in the fair value of investments are written off at the time when facts and circumstances indicate such write downs are warranted, and they are reflected in realized losses. 19 Table of Contents Other than temporary and permanent impairments are distinct from the ordinary fluctuations seen in the value of a security when considered in the context of overall economic and market conditions. Securities considered to have a temporary decline would be expected to recover their market value or are fixed income securities that the company intends to hold until maturity. Under the same accounting treatment as market value gains, temporary declines (changes in the fair value of these securities) are reflected on the companys balance sheet in other comprehensive income, net of tax, and have no impact on reported net income. Life Insurance Policy Reserves Reserves for traditional life insurance policies are based on expected expenses, mortality, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for adverse deviation. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. Expected mortality is derived primarily from industry experience. Withdrawal rates are based on company and industry experience, while investment yield is based on company experience and the economic conditions then in effect. Reserves for the companys universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts are equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Employee Benefit Plan The company has a defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all employees. Contributions and pension costs are developed from annual actuarial valuations. These valuations involve key assumptions including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated each year. Any adjustments to these assumptions are based on considerations of current market conditions. Therefore, changes in the related pension costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in assumptions. The key assumptions used in developing the 2003 net pension expense were a 6.5 percent discount rate, an 8.0 percent expected return on plan assets and rates of compensation increases ranging from 5 percent to 7 percent, depending on the age of the employee. The 8 percent return on assets assumption is based on the fact that substantially all of the investments held by the pension plan are common stocks that pay annual dividends. Management believes this rate is representative of the expected long term rate of return on these assets. These assumptions were consistent with the prior year except that the discount rate was reduced by one half of one percent due to current market conditions. Compared with the prior year, the net pension expense was increased by $4 million. For 2004, the company expects a net pension expense of $8 million, primarily as a result of lower plan assets, lower expected returns and one half of one percent reduction in the interest rate used in converting the lump sum cash out form of payment at retirement. Holding all other assumptions constant, a one half of one percent increase or decrease in the discount rate would have increased or decreased the companys 2003 net income before income taxes by $1 million. Likewise, a one half of one percent increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have increased or decreased 2003 income before income taxes by $1 million. In addition, the fair value of the plan assets exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation by $21 million at December 31, 2003, and by $31 million at December 31, 2002. The fair value of the plan assets was less than the projected plan benefit obligation by $29 million at December 31, 2003, and by $9 million at December 31, 2002. Market conditions and interest rates significantly affect future assets and liabilities of the pension plan. An additional liability may be required in the future, with the potential for a charge to equity to the extent the minimum liability exceeds unrecognized prior service cost upon measurement of plan obligations, which is usually completed by the company at the end of each year. Deferred Acquisition Costs The company establishes a deferred asset for costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring property casualty and life business. These costs are principally agent commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting costs, which are deferred and amortized into income as premiums are earned. Deferred acquisition costs have grown in line with the growth in premiums. Underlying assumptions are updated periodically to reflect actual experience. Changes in the amounts of timing or estimated future profits could result in adjustments to the accumulated amortization of these costs. For property casualty policies, deferred costs are amortized over the terms of the policies. For life policies, acquisition costs are deferred and amortized over the premium paying period of the policies. Separate Accounts The company issues life contracts with guaranteed minimum returns, referred to as bank owned life insurance policies (BOLI), the assets and liabilities of which are legally segregated and recorded as assets and liabilities of the separate accounts. Minimum investment returns and account values are guaranteed by the company and also include death benefits to beneficiaries of the contract holders. The assets of the separate accounts are carried at fair value. Separate account liabilities primarily represent the contract holders claims to the related assets and are carried at the fair value of the assets. Generally, investment income and realized investment gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contract holders and, therefore, are not included in the companys Consolidated Statements of Income, however, each separate account contract includes a negotiated realized gain and loss sharing arrangement with the company. This share is transferred from the separate account to the companys general account and is recognized as revenue or expense. In the event that the asset value of contract holders accounts is projected below the value guaranteed by the company, a liability is established through a charge to the companys earnings. 20 Table of Contents In the companys most significant separate account written in 1999, realized gains and losses are retained in the separate account and are deferred and amortized to the contract holder over a five year period, subject to certain limitations. Upon termination or maturity of this separate account contract, any unamortized deferred gains and or losses will revert to the general account. In the event this separate account holder were to surrender the contract, there would be a surrender charge equal to 10 percent of the contracts account value during the first five years. Beginning in year 6, the surrender charge decreases 2 percent a year to 0 percent in year 11. At December 31, 2003, net unamortized losses amounted to $2 million. In accordance with this separate account agreement, the investment assets must meet certain criteria established by the regulatory authorities to whose jurisdiction the group contract holder is subject. Therefore, sales of investments may be mandated to maintain compliance with these regulations, possibly requiring gains or losses to be recorded, and charged to the general account. Potentially, losses could be material; however, unrealized losses at December 31, 2003, in the separate account portfolio were less than $1 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 61, for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements. Management has determined that recent accounting pronouncements have not had nor are they expected to have any material impact on the companys consolidated financial statements. 21 Table of Contents Results of Operations Cincinnati Financial Corporation Consolidated Three Year Highlights (Dollars in millions except per share data) 2003 Change % 2002 Change % 2001 Change % Revenues $ 3,181 11.9 $ 2,843 11.0 $ 2,561 9.9 Net income 374 57.0 238 23.3 192 63.3 Per share data (diluted): Net income $ 2.31 58.2 $ 1.46 22.7 $ 1.19 63.0 Book value $ 38.69 11.7 $ 34.65 (6.5 ) $ 37.07 (0.5 ) Return on equity 6.3 % 4.1 % 3.2 % Return on equity based on comprehensive income 13.8 % (4.0 %) 2.5 % The consolidated results of operations reflect the operating results of each of the companys four segments along with parent company and other non insurance related activities. The four segments are: commercial lines property casualty insurance personal lines property casualty insurance life insurance investments Highlights of the consolidated results for the past three years include: Revenues Revenue growth accelerated over the three year period on strong property casualty performance. Earned premium growth slowed in 2003 as commercial pricing increases continued, but at a lower rate. In addition, realized investment losses were substantially lower in 2003 than 2002 and investment income continued to rise. The companys emphasis on common stock holdings with an increasing flow of dividend payments has led to continued growth of investment income even though low prevailing interest rates have limited opportunities to expand income from fixed income investments. Net income Net income rose 57.0 percent in 2003 and 23.3 percent in 2002. In each of the past three years, the companys total benefits and expenses have grown less rapidly than revenues, as managements strategies to improve profitability have taken effect. Strong property casualty underwriting profit in 2003 led to a higher effective tax rate. Realized investment gains and losses A significant factor in the growth rate for net income in any year can be realized investment gains and losses. Management believes it is important to carefully consider the impact of realized investment gains and losses on net income when evaluating the companys primary business areas: property casualty insurance and life insurance. Management believes the level of realized investment gains and losses for any particular period, while it may be material, may obscure the performance of ongoing underlying business operations in that period. While realized investment gains and losses are integral to the companys insurance operations over the long term, the determination to recognize gains or losses in any period may be subject to managements discretion and is independent of the insurance underwriting process. Moreover, under applicable accounting requirements, gains and losses can be recognized from certain changes in market values of securities without actual realization. In the three year period, the after tax impact of realized investment losses was to reduce net income by $27 million, or 17 cents per share, in 2003, by $62 million, or 38 cents, in 2002 and by $17 million, or 10 cents, in 2001. Net realized investment losses were lower in 2003 than 2002 as other than temporary impairment charges declined due to the economic and market recovery and as net gains on the sale of securities rose to a higher level. See Investments Results of Operations, Page 38, for additional information on net realized investment gains and losses. Other considerations In addition, two items in 2003 that the company considered to be unusual should be taken into consideration when evaluating ongoing business operations: Software recovery In the third quarter of 2003, the company recovered $23 million pretax in a settlement negotiated with a vendor. The recovery added $15 million, or 9 cents per share, to after tax net income. The negotiated settlement related to the $39 million one time, pretax charge incurred in the third quarter of 2000 to write off previously capitalized software development costs. Uninsured motorist/underinsured motorist reserve release In the fourth quarter of 2003, the company released $38 million pretax of previously established UM/UIM reserves following the Ohio Supreme Courts decision to limit its 1999 Scott Pontzer v. Liberty Mutual decision. That action added $25 million, or 15 cents per share to after tax net income. See Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 25, for additional information regarding UM/UIM reserves. 22 Table of Contents Option expense In each of the past three years, net income would have been reduced by approximately 6 cents if option expense, calculated using the binomial option pricing model, was included in operating expenses. Book value Book value reached a record high of $38.69 at year end 2003 because of the recovery in the financial markets that led to higher market values for equity investments. Year end 2002 and 2001 book value declined primarily because of fluctuations in market values for the equity investment portfolio. Comprehensive income Accumulated other comprehensive income, which includes the accumulated unrealized gains on investments and derivatives, grew by $441 million in 2003 after declining $470 million and $43 million in 2002 and 2001. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 7, for additional information on the investment portfolio and see Shareholders Equity, Page 46, for information on unrealized gains and losses. Return on equity improved for the third consecutive year while return on equity based on comprehensive income rose to 13.8 percent from a negative 4.0 percent in 2002 and 2.5 percent in 2001. Outlook Based on its outlook for the insurance and investment markets, its progress in implementing operating strategies and its results for 2003, management has established certain performance targets for 2004 including: Property casualty written and earned premium growth in the high single digits. Combined ratio for the property casualty operations in the range of 95 percent compared with 94.7 percent in 2003, which included a benefit of 0.8 percentage points from the software recovery and 1.4 percentage points from the UM/UIM reserve release. The 2004 target does not include benefits anticipated from additional UM/UIM reserve releases and assumes the combined ratio will include approximately 3.0 to 3.5 percentage points for catastrophe losses. Investment income growth of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent compared with 4.7 percent in 2003. Factors supporting managements outlook for 2004 and beyond are discussed in the results of operations for each of the four business segments. Segment Results of Operations As described in Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 72, management measures segment profit or loss for its property casualty and life businesses based upon underwriting results. Insurance underwriting results (profit or loss) represent net earned premium less loss and loss expenses and underwriting expenses on a pretax basis. Management also measures aspects of the performance of its commercial lines and personal lines segments on a combined property casualty insurance operations basis. For the combined property casualty insurance operations as well as the commercial lines and personal lines segment, statutory accounting data and ratios are key performance indicators that are used for comparison to industry results since GAAP based industry data is not readily available. Statutory accounting data and ratios also are key performance indicators for The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company, the life insurance subsidiary. The related investment portfolios for the property casualty and life insurance segments are managed separately from the underwriting businesses, along with investments held by the parent company. Net investment income and net realized investment gains and losses are discussed in the investments segment discussion. Underwriting results and segment pretax operating income are not a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. The following sections review results of operations for the combined property casualty insurance operations and, separately, for each of the companys four reportable segments (see Commercial Lines Results of Operations, Page 27, Personal Lines Results of Operations, Page 32, Life Insurance Results of Operations, Page 36, and Investments Results of Operations, Page 38). 23 Table of Contents Property Casualty Insurance Operations Three year Highlights (Dollars in millions) 2003 Change % 2002 Change % 2001 Change % Earned premiums $ 2,653 10.9 $ 2,393 15.4 $ 2,073 13.4 Losses incurred 1,490 1.2 1,472 6.6 1,381 6.2 Loss expenses incurred 307 12.9 273 30.2 209 1.2 Underwriting expenses incurred 701 10.5 635 11.7 569 5.8 Policyholder dividends incurred 15 164.0 6 (65.4 ) 16 (11.6 ) Underwriting profit (loss) $ 140 1,816.7 $ 7 107.1 $ (102 ) 56.3 Combined ratio: Loss ratio 52.5 % 57.9 % 63.5 % Loss expense ratio 11.6 11.4 10.1 Loss and loss expenses ratio excluding catastrophe losses 64.1 % 69.3 % 73.6 % Catastrophe loss and loss expenses ratio 3.6 3.6 3.1 Loss and loss expenses ratio 67.7 % 72.9 % 76.7 % Underwriting expense ratio 26.4 26.6 27.4 Policyholder dividend ratio 0.6 0.2 0.8 Combined ratio 94.7 % 99.7 % 104.9 % Within the property casualty insurance market, the company offers both commercial and personal policies through a network of independent agencies. Highlights of the performance for the combined property casualty insurance operations included: Earned premiums Over the past three years, the company has taken advantage of strong insurance industry pricing and leveraged its relationships with independent agencies to obtain higher premiums on new and renewal business. The rate of increase for commercial lines earned premiums slowed in 2003, reflecting changing market conditions, while the rate of increase for personal lines earned premium rose due to higher rates. Total policy count was down 2.2 percent in 2003 after rising 1.7 percent in 2002. Management considers statutory net written premium growth to be a key performance indicator, since it can be used to compare the companys growth to industry performance and allows it to evaluate the success of its strategies. The estimated industry growth rate was 10.2 percent, 14.9 percent and 8.5 percent in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The companys statutory net written premiums on an adjusted basis rose 11.7 percent in 2003, 14.0 percent in 2002 and 13.0 percent in 2001. The companys 2003 and 2002 statutory net written premiums were adjusted for the effect of a refinement adopted in 2002 of the companys estimation process for matching written premiums to policy effective dates. The companys 2001 statutory net written premiums were adjusted for the adoption of Codification. Underwriting results and combined ratio For the third consecutive year, combined property casualty underwriting performance improved on a year over year basis as the result of growth in premiums, in particular more adequate premium per policy, and as a result of benefits from underwriting efforts. The statutory industry averages are estimated 101.1 percent, 107.4 percent and 115.9 percent for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. On a statutory adjusted basis, the 2003 property casualty combined ratio of 95.0 percent before the software recovery, included a 1.4 percentage point benefit from the UM/UIM reserve release, and compared with 99.6 percent and 103.6 percent in 2002 and 2001. The companys 2002 ratio reflects the written premium adjustment and the 2001 ratio reflects the adoption of Codification. The favorable comparison of this key performance indicator to industry trends highlights the success of the companys strategies. The company achieved strong growth by leveraging the competitive characteristics discussed in Item 1, Property Casualty Insurance Operations, Page 1. It continues to apply its relationship based strategies, including a case by case approach to new business and account renewals. While insisting on adequate premiums for covered exposures, the company continues to do business the way it always has; on the local level, focusing on each relationship separately. Commercial lines pricing remained flexible to respond to each risk in cooperation with local agencies, which are in a position to know their market and their business. The company believes that this approach results in more high quality accounts over the long term, further solidifies its relationships with independent agencies and establishes a basis for continued growth. The company has been more aggressively identifying and measuring exposures to match coverage amounts and premiums to the risk. Where this matching is not possible, accounts are not being renewed unless there are mitigating factors. Agents agree on the need to carefully select risks and assure pricing adequacy. They appreciate the time the companys associates invest in creating solutions for their clients while protecting profitability, whether that means working on an individual case or developing modified policy terms and conditions that preserve flexibility, choice and other sales advantages. 24 Table of Contents Growth also has reflected the efforts to improve customer service through the creation of smaller marketing territories, permitting local field marketing representatives to devote more time to each independent agency. At year end 2003, the company had 87 property casualty field territories, up from 76 at the end of 2001. During 2004, the company plans to split and staff another five to six territories. Smaller territories allow marketing representatives to increase the level of service as well as expand the opportunities to ask for and earn new business. The average net earned premium per territory rose 7.8 percent in 2003 to $32 million following a 5.0 percent increase in 2002. The companys success has been built on frontline decision making. The company expects to continue to strengthen its relationships with agencies with technology that brings agencies greater efficiencies while permitting associates to spend more time with people and less with paper. CinciLink, the companys Web site for agencies, enables agencies to obtain information and access the companys new Web based systems. The Web site includes content to make it easier for agencies to place business with the company, such as online policy loss information, software updates and a property casualty electronic coverage forms library. The initial rollout of commercial lines and personal lines rating software was achieved through CinciLink. In 2003, WinCPP, an online system for commercial lines processing, was expanded to 10 states and now is available for agencies writing more than 70 percent of the companys total premiums. CMS, a new claims file management system, was deployed in late 2003 to field claims associates in all states. CMS supports the companys continued comitment to providing exemplary claims service with a personal touch by lifting the administrative burden from the field claims representatives. Through December 31, 2003, capitalized development costs related to CMS totaled $14 million. In 2004, management anticipates investing another $10 million to enhance CMS, providing capabilities for agencies and more comprehensive financial reporting. The discussion of the commercial lines and personal lines segments provides additional detail regarding these strategies and trends. Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Reserves The largest component of the property casualty segments expenses is loss and loss expenses incurred, which includes both paid losses and net reserve additions for unpaid losses as well as expenses related to each. Paid losses and related loss expense accounted for 86.9 percent, 85.3 percent and 89.3 percent of property casualty insurance losses and policyholder benefits incurred in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The remaining 13.1 percent, 14.7 percent and 10.7 percent in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, reflected additions to reserves for all unpaid loss and loss expense obligations, including case reserves for reported losses and reserves for incurred but not yet reported losses, offset by released reserves. The reserve estimation policies for the property casualty segments are described in Property Casualty Insurance Loss Reserves, Page 18. The majority of IBNR increases over the past three years have been due to growth in premiums and loss cost inflation as well as managements continuous efforts to achieve its best estimates of ultimate incurred losses. The assessment is made for each business line within the commercial lines and personal lines segments. Reserve levels in 2003 also reflected managements assessment that mold related reserves should be strengthened and the need to establish higher loss expense reserves because of the rise in litigation costs due to larger and more complex claims. These two 2003 increases were offset by the release of $38 million in UM/UIM reserves following the November 2003 Ohio Supreme Courts limiting of its 1999 Scott Pontzer v. Liberty Mutual decision. As the company reviews pending claims in light of the recent court decision, up to an additional $37 million in UM/UIM case reserves may be released in coming quarters. In the November 2003 decision to limit the Scott Pontzer decision, the court ruled that an employers commercial automobile insurance policy only covers injured employees and only when the accident happens in the course and scope of their employment. Since 1999, the company had established case reserves and IBNR for past UM/UIM losses incurred but not yet reported related to these decisions. As background, the Ohio Supreme Courts 1999 decision in Scott Pontzer greatly increased the exposure on commercial auto insurance policies. That ruling extended Ohio businesses UM/UIM coverage in force over the past 15 years to their employees when they were not at work and to the employees resident family members. It contributed to changes in policy wording for UM/UIM coverage. Additionally, the same courts 2000 decision in Linko v. Indemnity effectively caused insurers to extend UM/UIM coverage, at the newly increased level of exposure, to every auto insurance policy in Ohio at no additional premium. The two court rulings affected all auto insurers in the state. Managements conclusions regarding reserve levels in 2002 reflected refinement of the manner in which the value of future salvage and subrogation for claims already incurred is estimated. Also, management increased reserves for incurred but not yet reported losses because of higher than expected paid and or reported development in workers compensation, commercial casualty, commercial and other umbrella lines for accident years 1999 through 2001. Asbestos and Environmental Reserves Management has reviewed its exposure to asbestos and environmental risk, including mold risk. Management believes that reserves are adequate at this time and that these coverage areas are immaterial to the companys financial position due to the types of accounts the company has insured in the past. Factors evaluated to reach those conclusions include: Open claim counts for the long tail asbestos and environmental losses annually ranged from 400 to 600, or less than 1 percent of the total open claim count, in each of the three years. Loss and loss expenses incurred for all asbestos and environmental claims were $13 million, or 0.7 percent of total loss and loss expense in 2003, compared with $20 million, or 1.2 percent, in 2002 and $7 million, or 0.4 percent, in 2001. 25 Table of Contents Reserves for all asbestos and environmental claims were constant at $71 million in 2003 and 2002, up from $63 million in 2001. Reserves for all asbestos and environmental claims were 2.5 percent, 2.7 percent and 2.7 percent of total reserves, in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Commercial accounts were written by the company after the development of coverage forms that exclude cleanup costs. The companys exposure to risks associated with past production and or installation of asbestos materials is minimal because the company was primarily a personal lines company when most of the asbestos exposure occurred. The commercial coverage the company did offer was predominantly related to local market construction activity rather than asbestos manufacturing. Further, over the past two years, to limit its exposure to mold and other environmental risks going forward, the company has revised policy terms where permitted by state regulation. Reinsurance The company has property casualty working reinsurance treaties for 2004 through reinsurance companies that have written its treaties for more than 15 years. The strong relationships the company has with these reinsurers has allowed the company to negotiate favorable terms and conditions during a difficult time in the market cycle. The property casualty working treaties align the company with three of the most financially sound reinsurance companies in the world. The company also secures property catastrophe coverage and catastrophic casualty protection. The 2004 property and casualty reinsurance program encompasses four primary components: Property per risk treaty The primary purpose of the property treaty is to provide excess limits capacity up to $25 million, supplying adequate capacity for the majority of the risks the company writes. The ceded premium is estimated to be $27 million for 2004, compared with $25 million in 2003 and 2002. In 2004, the company is retaining the first $2 million of each loss, and 40 percent of the next $3 million of loss. The $2 million base retention has been in place for many years, and the co participation is the same percentage as 2003, up from 20 percent in 2002. Losses in excess of $5 million are reinsured at 100 percent up to $25 million. Casualty per occurrence treaty The casualty treaty provides the company with excess capacity up to $25 million. Similar to the property treaty, this provides sufficient capacity to write the vast majority of casualty accounts the company insures. The ceded premium is estimated to be $60 million in 2004, compared with $55 million in 2003 and $52 million in 2002. In 2004, the company is retaining the first $2 million of each casualty loss, and 60 percent of the next $2 million of loss. This structure is identical to 2003. In 2003, the co participation rose 40 percent from the 2002 level. Losses in excess of $4 million are reinsured at 100 percent up to $25 million. Casualty fourth excess treaty The company also purchases a casualty reinsurance treaty that provides an additional $25 million in casualty loss protection. This treaty, along with the casualty per occurrence treaty, provides $50 million of protection for workers compensation losses, bad faith losses and clash coverage when there is a single occurrence involving multiple Cincinnati Insurance Company policyholders or multiple policies for one insured. The ceded premium is estimated to be $2 million in 2004 compared with $2 million in both 2003 and 2002. Property catastrophe treaty To protect against catastrophic events such as wind and hail, hurricanes or earthquakes, the company purchases property catastrophe reinsurance, with a limit up to $400 million. For the 2004 treaty, ceded premiums are estimated to be $25 million, up from $21 million in 2003 and 2002. Part of the increase for 2004 is due to the increase in the limit to $400 million from $300 million effective April 1, 2003 to keep limits in line with increases in exposures due to company growth. The company will retain the first $25 million of losses arising out of a single event and will retain 43 percent of losses from $25 million to $45 million as it did in 2003. The company retains 5 percent of all losses in excess of $45 million, up to $400 million. Individual risks with limits in excess of $25 million must be handled by a different reinsurance mechanism. Property coverage for individual risks with insured values between $25 million and $50 million are reinsured under an automatic facultative treaty. For those risks with property values exceeding $50 million, the company negotiates the purchase of facultative coverage on an individual certificate basis. For casualty coverage on individual risks with limits exceeding $25 million, facultative reinsurance coverage is placed on an individual certificate basis. Dealing with the challenges presented by terrorism has become a very important issue for the insurance industry over the last two years. Terrorism coverage at various levels has been secured in all of the companys reinsurance agreements. The broadest coverage for this peril is found in the property and casualty working treaties, which provides coverage for commercial and personal risks. Our property catastrophe treaty provides coverage for personal risks and the majority of our reinsurers provide limited coverage for commercial risks with total insured values of $10 million or less. For insured values between $10 million and $25 million, there also may be coverage in the property working treaty. Reinsurance protection for the companys surety and life insurance businesses are covered under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. All reinsurance agreements in place for 2004 are similar to those for 2003 and 2002. The 2004 estimated incremental cost increase of $7 million, net of tax, is primarily due to the growth in the companys premium base. The company has the financial ability to absorb losses at the current retention levels, and the 2004 reinsurance agreements are a means of balancing reinsurance costs with an acceptable level of risk. 26 Table of Contents Commercial Lines Results of Operations Three year Highlights (Dollars in millions) 2003 Change % 2002 Change % 2001 Change % Earned premiums $ 1,908 10.8 $ 1,723 18.6 $ 1,453 17.9 Losses incurred 977 (1.9 ) 996 10.0 905 3.2 Loss expenses incurred 241 12.9 214 25.3 171 7.7 Underwriting expenses incurred 508 13.3 448 16.3 386 5.4 Policyholder dividends incurred 15 164.0 6 (65.4 ) 16 (11.6 ) Underwriting profit (loss) $ 167 184.5 $ 59 330.5 $ (25 ) 86.4 Combined ratio: Loss ratio 49.0 % 55.5 % 60.4 % Loss expense ratio 12.6 12.5 11.8 Loss and loss expenses ratio excluding catastrophe losses 61.6 % 68.0 % 72.2 % Catastrophe loss and loss expenses ratio 2.2 2.3 1.9 Loss and loss expenses ratio 63.8 % 70.3 % 74.1 % Underwriting expense ratio 26.6 26.0 26.5 Policyholder dividend ratio 0.8 0.3 1.1 Combined ratio 91.2 % 96.6 % 101.7 % Performance highlights for the commercial lines segment include: Earned premiums The primary source of growth in the past three years has been higher pricing on new and renewal commercial business and insurance to value initiatives, more then offsetting the companys deliberate decisions not to write or renew certain business. The growth rate in 2003 slowed as the rate of premium increases moderated industrywide. Profitability Since 2001, improvement in commercial lines profitability has primarily been driven by more adequate premiums per policy, with policy count relatively stable over the three year period. In addition, careful attention to underwriting has slowed the rate of growth in loss and loss expenses. The 2003 combined ratio included the benefit of the software recovery and UM/UIM reserve release, which reduced the ratio by 0.8 percentage points and 2.0 percentage points, respectively. Growth From mid 1999 into 2003, the commercial lines marketplace implemented continued rate increases in reaction to concerns about the economy and rising loss severity, exacerbated by the events of September 11, 2001. Also in response to rising loss severity, during that period, some competitors announced decisions to exit geographic markets or specific lines of business; others instituted across the board price increases. Industry analysts believed the market was experiencing a renewed awareness of underwriting discipline. Late in 2003, competition increased for high quality accounts, particularly from other regional carriers that may have been less affected by market events in 2001 and 2002. Market conditions now vary substantially between geographic markets, possibly due to differing economic conditions and the presence of different groups of competitors. Rate increases for high quality accounts are in the low to mid single digits. In most markets where the company competes disciplined underwriting generally remains the norm. In certain markets the company has seen some indication of carriers seeking to aggressively price average or below average accounts. In the companys opinion, carriers are modifying pricing rather than changing policy terms and conditions. Regional and national carriers continue to target the small accounts market, defined by the company as accounts with premiums under $10,000 annually. The company has faced and will continue to address these more competitive conditions by seeking to remain a stable market for its agencies best business although during this three year period, the company has experienced little or no growth in commercial lines policy count. The slow growth in policy count reflected the companys re underwriting of the existing book of business and its insistence on obtaining adequate premium for the covered risks, the combination into a single commercial package unit of coverages formerly provided by stand alone umbrella policies and increased competition for smaller accounts. Looking ahead, management believes that opportunities to obtain new business and increase policy count will come from its strong relationships with independent agencies, subdivision of territories to enhance service and appointment of up to 150 new agencies over the next several years. Offsetting new appointments will be continued consolidation within the independent agency marketplace and terminations of agency relationships. Staying abreast of evolving market conditions is a critical function, accomplished in both an informal and a formal manner. Informally, the field marketing representatives are in constant receipt of market intelligence from the agencies they work with on a daily basis. Formally, the commercial lines product management group completes periodic market surveys to obtain competitive intelligence. This market information helps to determine the top competitors by line of business or specialty program and also determines market 27 Table of Contents strengths and weaknesses for the company. The analysis encompasses pricing, breadth of coverage and underwriting/eligibility issues. In addition to reviewing the companys competitive position, the product management group performs underwriting audits to assess profitability initiatives. Further, the companys research and development department analyzes opportunities and develops new products, new coverage options and improvements to existing insurance products. Management considers new business measures to be a key indicator of the success of its competitive strategies. Locally based field marketing representatives lead the new business effort, working with agencies to underwrite and price business using personal and direct knowledge of the risk and competitive environment. In 2003, commercial new business premiums written directly by agencies rose 6.8 percent to a record $268 million. In 2002, new business premiums rose 14.4 percent to $251 million from $220 million in 2001. The lower 2003 growth rate reflected the slowing of premium increases industrywide. In the five states in which the company had at least $100 million in agency direct earned premiums in 2003, premiums grew 12.0 percent in 2003 and 16.1 percent in 2002. In the remaining 26 states, agency direct earned premiums grew more rapidly, rising 16.3 percent in 2003 and 9.0 percent in 2002. The stronger growth in the smaller states reflected the opportunities available to the company in less penetrated markets. The companys standard approach is to write three year policies, a competitive advantage in the commercial line market. Although the company offers three year terms, many policies are adjustable at each annual anniversary for the subsequent one year period, and may be cancelled at any time at the discretion of the policyholder. While writing three year policies would appear to restrict opportunities to quickly adjust pricing, contract terms provide that the rates for automobile, workers compensation, professional liability and most umbrella liability coverages within multi year packages may be changed at each of the policys annual anniversaries for the next one year period. The annual rate adjustments could incorporate rate changes approved by state insurance regulatory authorities between the date the policy was written and its annual anniversary date, as well as changes in risk exposures and premium credits or debits relating to loss experience, competition and other underwriting judgment factors. Management estimates that approximately 75 percent of 2003 commercial premium was written on a one year policy term or was subject to annual rating adjustments. Multi year packages are offered at rates that may be slightly higher than annual rates. By reducing annual administrative efforts, multi year policies reduce the companys and agencys expenses and the incentive for the policyholder to shop for a new policy every year. Management believes that the advantages of three year policies in terms of policyholder convenience, account retention and reduced administrative costs outweigh the potential disadvantage of these policies in periods of rising rates. In 2003, the company resumed writing three year policies for contractor risks in most states because of these advantages. In 2002, the company temporarily had ceased writing three year policies for contractors in favor of one year policies while awaiting state regulatory approval for two significant coverage changes in the companys general liability and umbrella coverage forms. The changes brought the companys policy forms in line with industry practices by capping the amount payable during a policy period (usually 12 months) for certain types of liability claims and by clarifying how a policy responds once the insured learns that injury or damage has occurred during a prior policy period. Looking ahead, these changes will help the company better manage liability losses and remain a viable market for agents to place coverage for well managed, reputable contractors. Underwriters carefully monitor new and renewal contractor business, continuing to write one year policies when competitive or underwriting issues make three year policies impractical. Commercial lines software, which is intended to reduce the administrative burden on the companys associates and bring the agencies greater efficiencies, made further progress in 2003. WinCPP, an online system for commercial lines rating and price quoting was expanded to 10 states from three and was available for agencies writing more than 70 percent of the companys total premiums. Development of e CLAS, a commercial lines policy processing system advanced to the initial field testing stage for the Businessowners Policy, and this product is expected to go to the pilot stage with selected Ohio agencies in late 2004. Through December 31, 2003, capitalized development costs related to e CLAS totaled $8 million and management anticipates investing another $11 million in 2004. Profitability In addition to seeking more adequate premium per exposure over the past three years, the company has focused on longer term efforts to enhance profitability. These have included confirming what exposures the company has for each risk and making sure it offers appropriate coverages, terms and conditions and limits of insurance. The company continues to develop new underwriting guidelines, to re underwrite books of business with selected agencies and to update policy terms and conditions where necessary. In addition, the company continues to leverage its strong local presence. Over the past three years, field marketing representatives met with every agency to reaffirm agreements on the extent of frontline renewal underwriting to be performed by local agencies. Loss control, machinery and equipment and field claims representatives have been conducting on site inspections. Field claims representatives prepare full risk reports on every account reporting a loss above $100,000 or on any risk of concern. Specific actions over the three years that have helped the company achieve these favorable results included: Contractor task force Initiatives resulting from this review included developing a supplemental application to better identify exposures; renewing emphasis on agent and underwriter education in the area of effective risk transfer techniques, particularly for general contractors; better managing exposures to apartment or tract housing development; making residential contractors ineligible for monoline umbrella liability policies; and excluding mold and external insulating finishing system (EIFS) exposures, where allowed by state regulations. Accelerated use of insurance risk reviews by field claims staff helped manage the loss ratio for contractors and similar types of businesses, contributing to the loss ratio improvement for commercial lines. Risk category reviews These studies emphasized underwriting guidelines, such as property age, capacity and loss experience. While the company continues to evaluate each risk on its own merits, these risk category reviews have helped underwriters develop guidelines such as caps on umbrella limits for certain severity prone risk categories. 28 Table of Contents Commercial auto task force This review identified or fine tuned underwriting guidelines and procedures, with careful attention to trucking businesses that specialize in transporting goods for others, in some cases on a long haul basis. General liability task force This study focused on loss trends by classes of business, severity versus frequency and other metrics for casualty coverages. The objective was to determine why results had not responded to the companys other actions to improve profitability. The task force completed its analysis in mid 2003. Based on the findings, the company implemented increased underwriting and pricing attention for certain states and territories as well as for general liability classifications that have historically generated unprofitable results. These actions have helped to address rising loss severity. The significant components of expenses for the commercial lines segment were: Losses incurred Losses incurred includes both net paid losses and reserve additions for unpaid losses. As a result of the underwriting actions noted above, which have led to higher premiums on a relatively stable level of exposure, incurred losses declined to 51.2 percent of earned premiums in 2003, including a 2.0 percentage point benefit from the UM/UIM reserve release, from 57.8 percent in 2002 and 62.3 percent in 2001. Management monitors incurred losses by size of loss, business line, risk category, geographic region, agency, field marketing territory and duration of policyholder relationship, addressing concentrations or trends as needed. Analysis indicated no significant concentrations beyond that seen in higher loss ratios for certain business lines, which management has addressed. Commercial Lines Losses by Size (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Losses $1 million or more $ 89 $ 90 $ 61 Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 117 123 112 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 121 121 111 Other losses 608 622 593 Total losses incurred excluding catastrophe losses 935 956 877 Catastrophe losses 42 40 28 Total losses $ 977 $ 996 $ 905 As a percent of earned premiums: Losses $1 million or more 4.6 % 5.2 % 4.2 % Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 6.2 7.2 7.7 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 6.3 7.0 7.7 Other losses 31.9 36.1 40.8 Loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses 49.0 % 55.5 % 60.4 % Catastrophe loss ratio 2.2 2.3 1.9 Total loss ratio 51.2 % 57.8 % 62.3 % Looking at commercial lines loss data by size, management evaluates new losses and case reserve adjustments greater than $250,000 to track frequency and severity. Analysis of loss data by average size of loss supports managements belief that the increase in loss severity is not a temporary phenomenon. However, new losses between $250,000 and $1 million and case reserve increases greater than $250,000, declined as a percentage of earned premiums in each of the past two years. New losses greater than $1 million declined as a percentage of earned premium in 2003 after rising 1.0 percentage point in 2002. Loss expenses incurred Loss expenses incurred were stable as a percent of earned premium in 2003 and 2002 after rising in 2001 because of higher loss expense reserves. Catastrophe losses Commercial lines catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and before taxes, were $42 million in 2003, compared with $40 million in 2002 and $28 million in 2001, which included $9 million for losses related to events of September 11, 2001. Underwriting expenses incurred In 2003 the ratio was reduced by 0.8 percentage points due to the software recovery. In 2003, commission expense rose by 1.3 percentage points as total contingent (profit based) commissions were two times the level of the prior year because of strong recent results. The company relies on its independent agencies as frontline underwriters who know the businesses and individuals in their communities; many agencies are benefiting from their hard work over the past several years. Depreciation of capitalized costs in 2003 was 0.2 percentage points higher than the prior year as significant technological initiatives moved into service. Over the three year period, non commission expenses remained steady as a percent of earned premiums. Policyholder dividends incurred Policyholder dividend expense as a percent of earned premiums was 0.8 percent in 2003 compared with 0.3 percent in 2002 and 1.1 percentage points in 2001. The rise between 2003 and 2002 reflected increased estimates of workers compensation dividends. The decline between 2002 and 2001 was due to the companys emphasis on pricing for workers compensation as well as its decision not to write or renew many of these policies. 29 Table of Contents Line of Business Analysis (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, Calendar year 2003 Change % 2002 Change % 2001 Change % Commercial multi peril: Earned premium $ 673 10.9 $ 607 13.2 $ 536 15.8 Loss and loss expenses incurred 442 4.7 422 2.1 413 18.5 Loss and loss expenses ratio 65.6 % 69.5 % 77.1 % Loss and loss expenses ratio excluding catastrophes 59.9 63.5 73.6 Workers compensation: Earned premium $ 293 (0.5 ) $ 294 16.7 $ 252 21.3 Loss and loss expenses incurred 235 0.1 235 15.7 203 32.6 Loss and loss expenses ratio 80.5 % 80.0 % 80.7 % Loss and loss expenses ratio excluding catastrophes 80.5 80.0 80.7 Commercial auto: Earned premium $ 419 9.3 $ 383 19.8 $ 320 20.9 Loss and loss expenses incurred 240 (7.2 ) 259 (5.7 ) 274 (13.9 ) Loss and loss expenses ratio 57.3 % 67.5 % 85.7 % Loss and loss expenses ratio excluding catastrophes 56.5 66.7 85.1 Other liability: Earned premium $ 342 24.1 $ 276 27.5 $ 216 4.9 Loss and loss expenses incurred 183 (14.5 ) 214 68.3 127 (24.4 ) Loss and loss expenses ratio 53.6 % 77.8 % 58.9 % Loss and loss expenses ratio excluding catastrophes 53.6 77.8 58.9 Accident year 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Loss and loss expenses incurred: Commercial multi peril $ 429 $ 419 $ 417 $ 401 $ 315 Workers compensation 223 227 221 199 162 Commercial auto 277 263 247 245 221 Other liability 262 203 151 144 100 Loss and loss expenses incurred ratio: Commercial multi peril 63.7 % 69.0 % 77.7 % 86.8 % 77.2 % Workers compensation 76.1 77.1 87.7 95.9 87.4 Commercial auto 66.0 68.5 77.3 92.5 96.7 Other liability 76.6 73.5 69.8 69.8 54.6 In total, commercial multi peril, workers compensation, commercial auto and other liability accounted for 90.5 percent of total commercial lines earned premium in 2003 compared with 90.5 percent in 2002 and 91.5 percent in 2001. Approximately 95 percent of the companys commercial lines premiums are written for accounts with coverages from more than one business lines. The company believes that its commercial lines area is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. For reference, however, the table above and discussion below summarizes growth and profitability trends separately for each of the four primary business lines. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of accident year incurred loss and loss expenses for the past five years. Accident year data shows the year in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid. 30 Table of Contents Over the past three years, results for the business lines within the commercial lines segment have reflected the companys emphasis on underwriting and obtaining adequate pricing for the covered risk, as discussed above. Other factors that have affected results for these lines included: Commercial multi peril As noted above, the company wrote a higher than normal number of one year policies in 2002 pending regulatory approval for changes in policy terms and conditions. In addition to industrywide slowing in premium growth, this decision affected the 2003 and 2002 growth rates for the companys commercial multi peril business line as some liability coverages previously written in premium discounted packages were moved to non discounted policies, which are included in the other liability line of business. The loss and loss expenses ratio declined steadily over the three year period. This is the companys single largest business line and the loss data are the best indicators of the success of the growth and underwriting actions that have been implemented in the past three years. Higher general liability base rates were effective in most states during 2003. This contributed to further improvement in the loss and loss expenses ratio in 2003. In 2002, underwriting and pricing initiatives also contributed, including package discount eligibility reviews, elimination or reduction of discounts, promotion of insurance to value levels and the salvage and subrogation reserve. The overall effect of these actions improved the loss and loss expenses ratio by 3.9 percentage points in 2003 and 7.6 percentage points in 2002. Additions of $27 million to reserves for older accident years offset the improvement by 4.4 percentage points in 2002. Workers compensation Conditions within the workers compensation market improved between 1999 and 2003 as market pricing rose in most states, albeit offset by continued rising trends in loss severity. As indicated by the rapid rise in premium volume of state pools for workers compensation, many carriers chose to exit significant portions of this line of business. While the company remains highly selective about the risks covered, workers compensation is available in packages for commercial lines policyholders, maintaining the companys competitive position in selected states. Workers compensation has a lower commission ratio than the other commercial business lines. In 2003 and 2002 the company chose not to renew selected policies where the aggregate terrorism exposure risk was excessive. Any new or renewal policy covering 200 or more employees at any one location received added scrutiny as the company sought to manage risk aggregation. On the basis of new business premiums written directly by agents, new workers compensation premiums rose 5.9 percent in 2003 after declining 17.4 percent in 2002 and 18.4 percent in 2001. Total workers compensation earned premiums were unchanged between 2003 and 2002 because of rate increases offset by a decline in policy count due to the re underwriting effort. The workers compensation loss and loss expense ratio has been steady for three years. Overall pricing increases for new and renewed risks and underwriting actions have helped to bring about declining accident year loss ratios over the three year period. The loss and loss expenses ratio in 2002 reflected the addition of $23 million to IBNR for older accident years, offset by the salvage and subrogation reserve. Higher than expected paid and reported loss development, primarily in accident years 2001 and 2000, accounted for $21 million of the 2002 IBNR change. Commercial auto Commercial auto premium growth trends reflected the factors influencing overall commercial lines performance with the primary driver being price increases. In the past several years, the company accelerated efforts to improve commercial automobile underwriting and rate levels, making certain that vehicle use was properly classified. As a result, the loss and loss expenses ratio for commercial auto improved in each of the past three years. Further, a task force studied loss patterns in this business line and recommended new or revised underwriting guidelines to assure accurate classification and pricing. As part of the companys overall emphasis on underwriting, risk information is being more closely scrutinized, generally resulting in higher pricing for renewal policyholders. The 2003 UM/UIM reserve release had its most substantial impact on the commercial auto line, lowering the full year loss and loss expense ratio by 6.9 percentage points. The 2002 ratio benefited by 7.5 percentage points from the salvage and subrogation reserve. Other liability (commercial umbrella, commercial general liability and most executive risk policies) Earned premium growth for the other liability line continued at a higher pace in 2003 because of the number of policies written in non discounted programs and the continuing rise in liability pricing. Other liability policy count has been stable as growth in the number of non discounted policies has offset declines in other areas, in part due to a change that allowed umbrella coverages to be endorsed to a primary policy rather than be written separately. For professional liability coverages, particularly nursing home professional liability, the company narrowed the underwriting criteria and significantly increased rates. Directors and officers coverage accounted for 12 percent of other liability premium in 2003. Director and officer policies are offered primarily to non profit organizations, reducing the risk associated with this line of business; only 35 in force director and officer policies as of December 31, 2003, are for publicly traded companies and only nine are for Fortune 1000 companies. The loss and loss expense ratio for other liability declined by 24.2 percentage points in 2003 due to current accident year results below historic levels and improvements in older accident year results. The 2003 ratio also benefited by 2.6 percentage points due to the UM/UIM reserve release. The ratio increased by 18.9 percentage points in 2002. Higher than anticipated accident year 2002 losses for umbrella business resulted in a $19 million IBNR increase in 2002, adding 6.9 percentage points to the calendar year 2002 ratio. Commercial Lines Outlook During 2004, the company anticipates commercial lines insurance market trends will reflect the industrys increasing surplus, improving profitability and growing capacity. The company will continue to markets its products to a broad range of business classes, price its products adequately and take a package approach. 31 Table of Contents On a written premium basis, management anticipates commercial growth of approximately 10 percent if market conditions remain stable. The company expects competition to accelerate for property lines of business due to the historical profitability of this business area and the short tail exposures associated with it. Conversely, management anticipates somewhat firmer market conditions to continue for casualty lines of business. This is due to profitability challenges and an inflationary legal environment related to these long tail exposure lines. By evaluating each risk individually and making decisions regarding rates, the use of three year policies and other policy terms on a case by case basis, even in lines and classes of business that are under pressure, the company believes it can continue to be a preferred market for its agencies and the types of Main Street businesses they serve. This should lead to incremental improvements in its already strong combined ratio. Personal Lines Results of Operations Three year Highlights (Dollars in millions) 2003 Change % 2002 Change % 2001 Change % Earned premiums $ 745 11.2 $ 670 8.1 $ 620 4.0 Losses incurred 513 7.7 476 0.1 476 12.3 Loss expenses incurred 66 13.2 58 51.8 38 (20.1 ) Underwriting expenses incurred 193 3.5 187 2.2 183 6.6 Underwriting loss $ (27 ) 47.1 $ (51 ) 33.4 $ (77 ) (62.0 ) Combined ratio: Loss ratio 61.5 % 63.9 % 70.9 % Loss expense ratio 8.8 8.7 6.2 Loss and loss expenses ratio excluding catastrophe losses 70.3 % 72.6 % 77.1 % Catastrophe loss and loss expenses ratio 7.3 7.1 5.8 Loss and loss expenses ratio 77.6 % 79.7 % 82.9 % Underwriting expense ratio 26.0 27.9 29.5 Combined ratio 103.6 % 107.6 % 112.4 % Performance highlights for the personal lines segment include: Earned premiums The sources of increasing growth in the past three years were rate increases on new and renewal personal lines business. Agencies and policyholders in the uncertain marketplace are attracted to the companys fair pricing and long term approach. Combined ratio The combined ratio improved steadily, reflecting the relatively stable loss and loss expense ratio in personal auto and the improving ratio for homeowners due to higher premiums. Already unprofitable due to years of inadequate pricing, industrywide personal lines insurance saw loss ratios further deteriorate in 2001, primarily because the homeowners market experienced an upswing in water damage and mold claims. In response, insurance companies have sought rate increases and added coverage exclusions for the homeowner line. A number of carriers have taken dramatic steps, restricting new business and exiting certain territories. For many insurance companies marketing homeowner products, responses to those issues already are substantially improving their results. While the personal automobile area has been less volatile in recent years, many carriers continued to seek rate increases throughout 2003 to keep up with rising claim costs. 32 Table of Contents Growth Management considers new business measures to be a key indicator of the success of its competitive strategies. In 2003, personal lines new business premiums written directly by agencies declined 9.3 percent to $60 million. In 2002, new business premiums rose 27.2 percent to $66 million from $52 million in 2001. The decline in new business growth in 2003 reflected the companys emphasis on underwriting personal lines. In addition, recent homeowner rate increases brought pricing more in line with industry averages, potentially diminishing a differentiating factor for more price sensitive consumers. Further, agencies may be placing less business with the company until the introduction of the personal lines policy processing system in their state. In the six states in which the company wrote $35 million or more in personal lines agency direct earned premium in 2003, premiums grew 8.3 percent in 2003 and 7.0 percent in 2002. In the remaining 25 states, agency direct earned premiums grew more rapidly, rising 15.9 percent in 2003 and 12.0 percent in 2002. Similar to commercial lines, the stronger growth in the smaller states reflected the opportunities available to the company in less penetrated markets. In August 2002, the company introduced Diamond, a Web based policy processing system for personal lines products, to agencies in Kansas. The single entry data processing system streamlines policy issue, reduces processing time to improve cash flow and offers direct billing. Longer term, management believes this program could have a substantial positive benefit on premium growth as the technology presents solutions sought by independent agencies. State by state development and rollout will take place over the coming years as the software undergoes upgrades and modifications to accommodate each states rules and rates. Agencies in three of the companys most significant personal lines states Indiana, Michigan and Ohio are targeted for deployment in 2004. Through December 31, 2003, capitalized development costs related to the project totaled $25 million. In 2004, management anticipates investing another $10 million. Profitability While generally seeking to leverage the relationships with the companys independent agencies, efforts to improve personal lines profitability have focused on the personal auto and homeowner business lines as discussed below. The significant components of expenses for the personal lines segment were: Losses incurred Losses incurred includes both net paid losses and reserve additions for unpaid losses. For personal lines, losses incurred rose to $513 million in 2003 from $476 million in 2002 and 2001 as the number of policies grew slightly over the three year period. That reflected the industrywide rise in loss severity over the past several years due to escalating medical costs and home values. Management monitors incurred losses by size of loss, business line, risk category, geographic region, agency, field marketing territory and duration of policyholder relationship, addressing concentrations or trends as needed. Analysis indicated no significant concentrations beyond that seen in higher loss ratios for certain business lines, which management has addressed. Personal Lines Losses by Size (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Losses $1 million or more $ 15 $ 15 $ 10 Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 41 35 32 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 11 20 10 Other losses 391 359 388 Total losses incurred excluding catastrophe losses 458 429 440 Catastrophe losses 55 47 36 Total losses $ 513 $ 476 $ 476 As a percent of earned premiums: Losses $1 million or more 2.0 % 2.2 % 1.6 % Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 5.5 5.2 5.2 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 1.5 3.0 1.6 Other losses 52.5 53.5 62.5 Loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses 61.5 % 63.9 % 70.9 % Catastrophe loss ratio 7.3 7.1 5.8 Total loss ratio 68.8 % 71.0 % 76.7 % Looking at personal lines loss data by size, management evaluates new losses and case reserve adjustments greater than $250,000 to track frequency and severity. Analysis of loss data by average size of loss supports managements belief that the increase in loss severity is not a temporary phenomenon. For personal lines, losses greater than $1 million have stabilized on both an absolute dollar basis and as a percentage of earned premium in the past two years after rising from 2001s level. However, losses between $250,000 and $1 million continue to rise, in line with higher overall loss severity. Case reserve increases greater than $250,000 declined as a percentage of earned premiums in 2003 after rising sharply in 2002. Management remains focused on establishing adequate case reserves at the time a claim is reported. 33 Table of Contents Loss expenses incurred were stable as a percent of earned premium in 2003 and 2002 after rising in 2001 because of higher loss expense reserves. Catastrophe losses Personal lines catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and before taxes, were $55 million in 2003 compared with $47 million in 2002 and $36 million in 2001. Underwriting expenses incurred In 2003 the ratio was reduced by 1.1 percentage points due to the software recovery. Over the three year period, expenses have declined as a percent of earned premiums because premiums are rising more rapidly than overhead and contingent commissions have been steady. Depreciation of capitalized costs in 2003 was 0.2 percentage points higher than the prior year as significant technological initiatives moved into service. Line of Business Analysis (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, Calendar year 2003 Change % 2002 Change % 2001 Change % Personal auto: Earned premium $ 428 9.8 $ 389 7.9 $ 361 3.8 Loss and loss expenses incurred 304 15.5 263 3.4 255 (1.9 ) Loss and loss expenses ratio 71.1 % 67.6 % 70.6 % Loss and loss expenses ratio excluding catastrophes 70.1 66.7 69.2 Homeowner: Earned premium $ 239 14.0 $ 210 10.0 $ 191 6.3 Loss and loss expenses incurred 222 7.1 207 (0.4 ) 208 25.4 Loss and loss expenses ratio 92.7 % 98.6 % 108.9 % Loss and loss expenses ratio excluding catastrophes 72.8 78.3 85.4 Accident year 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 Loss and loss expenses incurred: Personal auto $ 295 $ 291 $ 265 $ 261 $ 239 Homeowner 229 208 198 177 127 Loss and loss expenses incurred ratio: Personal auto 69.1 % 74.6 % 73.6 % 75.1 % 70.7 % Homeowner 95.8 99.0 104.0 98.4 76.4 The personal auto and homeowner business lines together accounted for 89.5 percent, 89.4 percent and 89.0 percent of total personal lines earned premiums in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The companys intent is to write personal auto and homeowners coverages in personal lines packages. The company believes that personal lines is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. For reference, however, the table and discussion below summarizes growth and profitability trends for the personal auto and homeowner business lines. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of accident year incurred loss and loss expenses for the past five years. Accident year data shows the year in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid. Personal auto Earned premiums for personal auto grew 9.8 percent, 7.9 percent and 3.8 percent in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The growth was driven by continued market penetration and the effect of rate increases beginning in late 2002. Rate increases ranging from 5 percent to 8 percent went into effect in four of the six largest personal lines states in 2003. Additional single digit increases have been filed and approved for 10 states for 2004, including increases in the range of 4 percent to 6 percent in three of the six largest personal lines states. Management believes the companys personal auto rates remain competitive. Over the last three years, the benefits of a personal auto re underwriting program generally served to offset rising loss severity. The program reviewed and strengthened underwriting standards, required motor vehicle reports for many insured drivers and obtained commitments for selected agencies to provide the company with specific premium volume increases. The loss and loss expense ratio for personal auto was relatively constant at 71.1 percent in 2003, 67.6 percent in 2002 and 70.6 percent in 2001. The 2002 ratio included a 5.0 percentage point benefit from the salvage and subrogation reserve. The planned rate increases and introduction of the Diamond policy processing system into larger states should contribute to earned premium growth in 2004 and beyond. Management believes the loss and loss expense ratio for personal auto could improve slightly over the next year as underwriting efforts continue to enhance profitability. Homeowner Earned premiums for homeowners grew 14.0 percent, 10.0 percent and 6.3 percent in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Catastrophe losses contributed 19.9 percentage points, 20.3 percentage points and 23.5 percentage points to the homeowner loss and loss expense ratio in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Although the loss and loss expense ratio for the 34 Table of Contents homeowner line declined to 92.7 percent in 2003 from 98.6 percent in 2002 and 108.9 percent in 2001, the ratio remains above the 72 percent to 74 percent quarterly level the company has targeted for the end of 2005. To obtain profitability for the homeowner line, the three most significant actions taken are summarized below: Rate changes In 2003, 23 rate increases were effective in 21 of the 25 states in which the company writes homeowners policies. Four of the companys six largest personal lines states as measured by homeowner premium volume experienced rate increases in the 10 percent to 20 percent range in 2003. Additional rate increases in the 5 percent to 18 percent range have been filed and approved for 2004 in these same states. At the same time, the personal lines underwriters are focusing on insurance to value initiatives to verify the company is receiving the correct level of premium for the value of the insured risk. Rate changes are applied to new business and to existing policies as they come up for renewal. Management believes the companys homeowner rates remain competitive. Changes in policy terms and conditions Over the past three years, the company has identified specific coverage areas for updating to increase its control over risk and pricing. For most policyholders, the company has capped the guaranteed replacement cost coverage at 125 percent of the amount chosen by the policyholder to insure the home; previously, full replacement coverage without a maximum was standard for the company. For water damage, which represented 22 percent of losses in 2003, 21 percent of losses in 2002 and 19 percent of losses in 2001, the company changed its coverage form to let policyholders choose and pay for the level of coverage they need rather than include broadened coverage with all policies. The guaranteed replacement cost coverage change and water damage endorsement began to roll out in September 2002 in three major personal lines states, Ohio, Michigan and Indiana, which accounted for 49.2 percent of 2003 homeowner earned premium. These changes were approved in all but two of the homeowner states at year end 2003. Shift to one year policies In conjunction with the deployment of the Diamond personal lines policy processing system, the company will begin to write homeowner policies on a one year basis instead of three years. One year policies will allow the company to modify rates, terms and conditions more rapidly when necessary. Homeowner policies were being written on a one year basis beginning in January 2004 in Indiana and Michigan and February 2004 in Ohio. Other states will shift to one year policies in advance of the Diamond deployment for each specific state. Diamond will provide greater efficiencies to assist the company and its agencies in processing annual renewals. The combined impact of these changes in rates and policy terms and conditions is seen as existing three year policies renew. For example, in Ohio, which accounts for 32.2 percent of the companys total homeowner earned premium, typical policyholders coming off a three year term are experiencing approximately a 40 percent increase in total premium for their 2004 renewal policy. This reflects all rate increases, insured value and policy changes that were effective over the three year policy cycle that is coming to an end. Ohio policies are being renewed on a one year policy term beginning in early in 2004. Personal Lines Outlook Management is maintaining reasonable growth projections for the personal lines area as the company prepares for the introduction of the new personal lines processing system in the key states of Indiana, Michigan and Ohio in the first half of 2004. The training program for agency representatives in Indiana and Michigan should be completed in the first half of 2004 and in Ohio during the fourth quarter of 2004. After that education effort is complete, the company has identified Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois and Kentucky for the next round of deployment. The new system will make it easier for agents to place personal auto, homeowners and other personal lines business with the company while greatly increasing policy issuance efficiency and providing direct bill capabilities. It currently is in use in the companys Kansas agencies and is undergoing a series of upgrades and modifications to accommodate each states rules and rates. The appointment of new agencies over the next several years also could contribute to personal lines growth. In addition, management believes that it has in place strategies to improve the profitability of its homeowner line of business while maintaining or slightly improving personal auto profitability. While primarily focusing on longer term targets for the homeowner line because of the existing base of three year policies, as the company continues to work through the renewal policy cycle, management expects to see quarter over quarter improvement in loss and loss expenses ratios in 2004 and beyond. 35 Table of Contents Life Insurance Results of Operations Three year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2003 Change % 2002 Change % 2001 Change % Earned premiums $ 95 9.2 $ 87 8.3 $ 81 6.5 Separate account investment management fees 2 445.2 0 (83.9 ) 3 33.6 Contract holders benefits incurred 91 10.1 83 12.6 74 (1.6 ) Investment interest credited to contract holders (43 ) (19.0 ) (36 ) (10.1 ) (33 ) (11.8 ) Expenses incurred 52 (0.7 ) 52 15.8 46 23.1 Life insurance segment loss (3 ) 71.8 (12 ) (255.8 ) (3 ) (154.5 ) Performance highlights for the life insurance segment include: Revenues Revenue growth has accelerated over the past three years as the company increased life policy face amounts in force to $38.492 billion in 2003 from $32.486 billion at year end 2002 and $27.534 billion at year end 2001. Profitability The life insurance segment reports a GAAP based segment loss because investment income is included in investment segment results, except investment income credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). At the same time, management recognizes that assets under management, capital appreciation and investment income are integral to evaluation of the success of the life insurance segment because of the long duration of life products. For that reason, management also evaluates GAAP data including results for investment activities on life insurance related assets for The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company subsidiary, which comprises the life insurance segment. Looking at a key performance indicator for Cincinnati Life, GAAP net income grew 25.8 percent in 2003 to $22 million from $17 million in 2002 and $26 million in 2001. Results improved in 2003 because operating expenses remained level and mortality experience remained within pricing guidelines as premiums continued to rise. The decline in 2002 was due in part to increased regulatory and legal cost. GAAP net income in 2001 exceeded that of both 2003 and 2002 primarily because of higher capital losses in those years. Growth Cincinnati Life offers a full line of whole, term and universal life products, fixed annuities and disability income products. Revenues are derived principally from: premiums from traditional products, principally term insurance, which contributed 71.7 percent of 2003 revenues fee income from interest sensitive products, principally universal life insurance, which contributed 26.0 percent of 2003 revenue asset management fee income, generated primarily from separate account assets, which contributed 2.3 percent of 2003 revenue The companys life insurance subsidiary reported 2003 statutory written life premium of $102 million, compared with $131 million in 2002, which included the sale of a single $33 million general account bank owned life insurance policy, and $89 million in 2001. Statutory written premiums have been reclassified to exclude annuity deposits not involving life contingencies, which are not recognized as written premium under statutory rules. New annuity sales were $37 million in 2003 compared with $85 million in 2002 and $10 million in 2001. The growth in 2002 annuity sales was attributable to the fixed rates and guaranteed income features that were attractive in 2002s economic climate. While the life insurance industry generally experienced declines during 2003 in applications submitted and face amount issued, the companys life insurance segment experienced a 5.9 percent rise in applications submitted and a 20.0 percent increase in face amount issued due to continued strong sales of term insurance marketed through the companys property casualty agency force. Cincinnati Life continues to introduce new and enhanced products specifically designed for property casualty agencies. The LifeHorizons Whole Life, Universal Life and Disability Income products are well suited for financial, estate and business planning. Approximately 75 percent of the companys premium volume for these products comes from the property casualty agencies, with the remaining 25 percent from independent life agencies. In 2002, the life insurance industry was challenged by a number of factors, including the higher than historic level of bond defaults, stock market declines that impacted variable annuities and competitive pressures that affected rates for term products. As a result, the industry saw an overall decline in statutory surplus, accelerated write downs of deferred acquisition costs and lower income. In combination, these factors resulted in ratings downgrades for many life insurance companies during 2002. During the same period, many large, widely known life insurance companies have transitioned to investor owned companies from mutual companies. Industry analysts believe these transitions could result in accelerated consolidation in the life insurance industry. 36 Table of Contents The future presence of larger competitors could have a negative impact on smaller, stand alone life insurance companies because of their potentially greater efficiency and their ability to be more aggressive in setting prices as rating agencies continue to downgrade the financial strength of numerous companies. Management believes such pressures are mitigated for the life insurance company because of its association with the property casualty operations, its leverage of the property casualty agency franchise and its careful selection of independent agencies. Within this marketplace, Cincinnati Life is able to be competitive and attracts its share of business from the property casualty agencies with which the company has strong relationships, especially as other property casualty companies continue to exit the life business. As the economy improved in 2003, the level of bond defaults and impairments improved to historic levels. Interest rates earned on new investments remained at historically low levels. Most of the companys interest sensitive life and deferred annuity contracts contain guaranteed crediting rates of 3.0 percent to 5.0 percent. The companys average interest rate earned overall on its investment portfolio, while decreasing in this period, still provides ample margins to allow for maintenance of pricing spreads when determining interest crediting rates. Over the past several years, the life insurance company has worked to introduce a portfolio of new and enhanced products, primarily under the LifeHorizons name. For example, during 2003, the company introduced a new guaranteed whole life policy and a non cancelable rider for its disability income product. In 2002, the life company revised the rates for the LifeHorizons term series and introduced a new risk classification system that better matches risk profile and rate. Other recent launches in the LifeHorizons product series included a simplified term policy specifically for clients of the companys property casualty agencies. In 2004, Cincinnati Life continues to enhance the LifeHorizons portfolio of products to meet changing needs of both consumers and agencies. Product development centers on mortality oriented products combined with contract guarantees. Distribution expansion into western and northeastern states is a high priority, and management anticipates adding a life field marketing representative for the northeast in 2004. Profitability Life segment expenses consist principally of: Insurance benefits paid and reserve increases, primarily related to traditional life products, which accounted for 63.6 percent of 2003 expenses Commissions, general and other business expenses, net of deferred acquisition costs, accounted for 36.4 percent of 2003 expenses Segment profitability depends largely on premium levels, the adequacy of product pricing, underwriting skill and operating efficiencies. Life segment results include only investment interest credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). The remaining investment income is reported in the investment segment results. The life investment portfolio is managed to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and rates credited to policyholders. Management considers the amount of assets under management and the life investment portfolio investment income as key performance indicators for the life insurance segment. The life insurance company maintains a competitive advantage with respect to benefits paid and reserve increases by consistently achieving better than average claims experience due to skilled underwriting. Commissions paid by the life insurance operation are on par with industry averages. During the past three years, the company has invested in imaging and workflow technology. As a result, the efficiency of application processing has improved significantly. During this period, submitted applications have increased at an annualized rate of approximately 6 percent, while staff involved with the underwriting and policy issue has declined 5 percent. This has been accomplished while maintaining the companys service standards. Life Insurance Outlook In 2004 the life insurance company will introduce a long term guaranteed universal life plan to further expand its product portfolio. As the life insurance company seeks to increase penetration of the property casualty agencies, managements objective is growth in the premium base through the sale of new products, in particular term insurance, which would place more emphasis on growth in statutory gross and net written premiums. 37 Table of Contents Investments Results of Operations Three year Highlights (In millions) 2003 Change % 2002 Change % 2001 Change % Investment income: Interest $ 235 0.9 $ 233 2.8 $ 226 2.0 Dividends 227 9.1 209 8.0 193 3.8 Other 8 (0.2 ) 8 20.6 7 (42.7 ) Investment expenses (5 ) 5.9 (5 ) 5.2 (5 ) (14.5 ) Total net investment income $ 465 4.7 $ 445 5.5 $ 421 1.5 Investment interest credited to contract holders (43 ) (19.0 ) (36 ) (10.1 ) (33 ) (11.8 ) Net realized investment gains and losses: Other than temporary impairment charges $ (80 ) 17.7 $ (98 ) (116.5 ) $ (45 ) nm Realized investment gains and losses 30 299.2 8 (33.6 ) 11 536.5 Change in valuation of embedded derivatives 9 362.0 (4 ) (141.9 ) 9 nm Net realized investment losses $ (41 ) 56.3 $ (94 ) (272.1 ) $ (25 ) (870.8 ) Investment operations income $ 381 21.2 $ 315 (13.3 ) $ 363 (5.2 ) The investment segment contributes investment income and realized gains and losses to results of operations. Investments provide the companys primary source of pretax and after tax profits. Investment income Pretax investment income reached a new record of $465 million in 2003, rising 4.7 percent from the prior record in 2002. Growth in investment income over the past two years has been driven by strong cash flow for new investments and increased dividend income from the common stock portfolio. Realized gains and losses Realized losses were substantially lower in 2003 than 2002. Due to the economic and market recovery, fewer other than temporary impairment charges were recorded in the second half of the year. Offsetting full year other than temporary impairment charges primarily were net gains on the sale of securities. Realized losses rose in 2002 due to higher impairment charges. Investment Income The advantages of strong cash flow in the past three years have been somewhat offset by the effect of the weak economy on overall market conditions and the challenge of reinvesting proceeds from called or redeemed bonds at lower prevailing interest rates. Overall, dividends contributed 48.8 percent of pretax investment income in 2003, up from 46.9 percent in 2002 and 45.9 in 2001. The higher contribution was primarily because of lower yields on the fixed income portfolio and dividend increases from companies in the common stock portfolio. In 2003, 29 of the 51 common stock holdings in the portfolio raised their indicated dividend payout, as did 28 of the 46 in 2002. The 2003 increases should add approximately $16 million to investment income on an annualized basis. Fifth Third, the companys largest equity holding, contributed 60 percent of the increase and 41.8 percent of total dividend income in 2003. Net Realized Investment Gains and Losses Over the past three years, net realized investment losses have been made up of other than temporary impairment charges, realized investment gains and losses on the sale of securities and changes in the valuation of embedded derivatives within certain convertible securities. These three areas are discussed below: Other than temporary impairment charges In 2003, the company recorded $80 million in write downs of securities management deemed had experienced an other than temporary decline in market value versus $98 million in 2002 and $45 million in 2001. See Asset Impairment, Page 19, for factors considered by management. These other than temporary impairment charges represented 0.6 percent, 0.9 percent and 0.4 percent of total invested assets at year end 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Also included in other than temporary impairments are unrealized losses of holdings that the company has identified for sale but not yet completed a transaction. Lingering weakness in the economy during the first half of 2003 led to the continued write downs of securities that management deemed had experienced other than temporary declines in market value. Of the $80 million in other than temporary write downs in 2003, $69 million occurred in the first six months of the year. 38 Table of Contents The majority of the write downs in 2003 related to 31 high yield corporate bonds written down $39 million and 10 convertible securities written down $26 million. Unlike the prior year, the market value declines in 2003 were related to company specific events rather than industry issues. Utility/merchant energy/trading, airline and healthcare bonds represented 72.1 percent of 2003 and 42.9 percent of 2002 impairment charges: Utility/merchant energy/trading Valuations throughout the industry were affected by mismanagement of trading operations and accounting irregularities regarding the booking of revenues and the valuation of trading contracts. Airline In 2002, management recorded other than temporary impairment charges for all unsecured airline related bonds due to the overall outlook for that industry, even if they did not otherwise meet the companys asset impairment criteria. Secured notes, or those that have aircraft as collateral for the trust certificate were not impaired except for two carriers in bankruptcy proceedings (UAL Corporation/United Airlines and US Airways Group, Inc./US Airways). Additional impairments in 2003 were for selected secured bonds that management believed had inferior collateral. The other than temporary impairments of airline related bonds as well as sales of securities reduced the companys exposure to this industry to approximately $57 million at year end 2003, down from $140.0 million at year end 2001. Healthcare The 2003 healthcare impairment charges related primarily to the sudden default by Healthsouth Corporation and subsequent fraud charges. These securities have since recovered and all coupon payments have been made. At December 31, 2003, they were trading above their pre default level. Other than temporary impairment charges by industry are summarized as follows: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Utility/merchant energy/trading $ (30 ) $ (14 ) $ (5 ) Airline (18 ) (28 ) (8 ) Healthcare (10 ) 0 0 Automotive (1 ) (11 ) (4 ) Cable 0 (12 ) 0 Telecommunication 0 (16 ) (3 ) Retail 0 (3 ) (10 ) Other (21 ) (14 ) (15 ) Total $ (80 ) $ (98 ) $ (45 ) 39 Table of Contents Other than temporary impairment charges by asset class as described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 7, are summarized below: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Investment grade corporate bonds: Number of securities impaired 1 0 0 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Impairment amount $ 1 $ 0 0 New book value 0 0 0 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % High yield corporate bonds: Number of securities impaired 31 24 11 % to total owned 16 % 10 % 5 % Impairment amount $ 39 $ 77 34 New book value 13 37 19 % to total owned 3 % 5 % 3 % Tax exempt municipal bonds: Number of securities impaired 5 2 1 % to total owned 1 % 0 % 0 % Impairment amount $ 6 $ 5 $ 3 New book value 3 1 2 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Common stocks: Number of securities impaired 2 0 0 % to total owned 4 % 0 % 0 % Impairment amount $ 8 $ 0 0 New book value 5 0 0 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Convertible securities: Number of securities impaired 10 4 2 % to total owned 11 % 4 % 2 % Impairment amount $ 26 $ 16 $ 8 New book value 23 11 9 % to total owned 6 % 2 % 2 % Total: Number of securities impaired 49 30 14 % to total owned 3 % 4 % 1 % Impairment amount $ 80 $ 98 $ 45 New book value 44 49 30 % to total owned 1 % 1 % 1 % 40 Table of Contents Realized investment gains and losses In 2003, the company recorded $30 million in net realized investment gains compared with $8 million in 2002 and $11 million 2001. The company buys and sells securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve its portfolio objectives. Although the company prefers to hold fixed income securities until maturity, a decision to sell reflects managements perception of a change in the underlying fundamentals of the security and preference to allocate those funds to investments that more closely meet the established parameters for long term stability and growth. Managements opinion that the security fundamentally no longer meets the companys investment expectations may reflect a loss of confidence in the issuers management, a change in underlying risk factors (such as political risk, regulatory risk, sector risk or credit risk), or a recovery from a previously impaired value. Changes in the valuation of embedded derivatives In 2003, the company recorded $9 million in fair value increases versus $4 million in fair value declines in 2002 and $9 million in fair value increases in 2001 due to the application of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 133, which requires measurement of the fluctuations in the value of the embedded derivative features in selected convertible securities. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 58, for details on the accounting for convertible security embedded options. Investments Outlook Management believes that it can achieve investment income growth of 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent in 2004 as a result of the anticipated growth in dividend income, strong cash flow from insurance operations and overall portfolio growth. While management does not forecast realized investment gains and losses, it believes that impairment charges in 2004 will be limited to securities marked to market because they have been identified for sale, or those where issuer specific events cause sharp declines in market value with little or no warning. Other Operations of the parent company, CFC Investment Company and CinFin Capital Management Company, excluding investment activities, and other income of the insurance subsidiaries resulted in $7 million in revenues in 2003, down from $14 million in 2002 and $10 million in 2001. Losses before income taxes of $38 million, $32 million and $37 million recorded in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, were primarily due to interest expense from debt of the parent company and operating expenses of the companys headquarters. Taxes The companys income tax expense was $106 million, $41 million and $28 million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, while the effective tax rate was 22.0 percent, 14.8 percent and 12.7 percent for the same periods. Investment operations are the companys primary source of profits. The company pursues a strategy of investing in tax advantaged fixed maturities and equity securities to minimize its overall tax liability and maximize after tax earnings. A 2003 GAAP net underwriting gain of $140 million increased the companys tax expense compared with a gain of $7 million in 2002 and a loss of $102 million in 2001. The differences in income tax expense and the effective tax rate during the period were primarily the companys tax exempt interest and dividends received exclusion. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 66, for detail regarding the companys effective income tax rate. Management anticipates that the effective tax rate will be in the 21 percent to 24 percent range if the company continues to achieve its performance objectives of an underwriting profit, growth in investment income and more normalized realized investment gains. 41 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow (In millions) Years ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 816 $ 667 $ 543 Net cash used in investing activities (642 ) (537 ) (359 ) Net cash used in financing activities (195 ) (66 ) (148 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash $ (21 ) $ 64 $ 36 Cash at beginning of year 112 48 12 Cash at end of year $ 91 $ 112 $ 48 Supplemental: Interest paid $ 34 $ 35 $ 41 Income taxes paid 65 87 9 Liquidity is a measure of the companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of business obligations. The companys primary means of meeting its liquidity requirements are through dividends from its insurance subsidiaries and investment income from its investment portfolio. The parent companys cash requirements include general operating expenses, interest payments on its debt, dividends to shareholders and common stock repurchases. The companys lines of credit also provide another potential source of short term liquidity. The property casualty and life insurance operations short term cash needs primarily consist of paying insurance loss and loss expenses and ongoing operating expenses. Those needs are met through cash flows from insurance premiums and investment income. Although the company has never sold investments to pay claims, the sale of investments would provide an additional source of liquidity, if required. After satisfying short term cash requirements, excess cash flows from underwriting and investment activities are used to build the investment portfolio, leading to the potential for increases in future investment income and realized gains. Underwriting generates positive cash flows because cash from premium payments generally is received in advance of cash payments required to settle claims. The companys property casualty and life insurance operations generated positive cash flows from underwriting of $472 million, $441 million and $478 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. This strong underwriting cash flow was primarily due to growth of premiums in the past three years. In addition, investment income from the insurance operations generated cash flows of $332 million, $316 million and $298 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, the insurance subsidiaries invested $1.398 billion, $843 million and $708 million in fixed income and equity securities. Those purchases were offset by sales of fixed income securities totaling $143 million, $64 million and $19 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Calls and maturities of fixed income securities added $389 million, $219 million and $186 million to cash flow in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Sales, calls or maturities of equity and equity linked securities totaled $209 million, $98 million and $187 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 7, for a discussion of the portfolio allocation and quality. As described in Item 1, Regulations, Page 10, and Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 65, dividends paid to the parent company by its insurance subsidiary are restricted by Ohio regulatory requirements. Further, management intends for all insurance subsidiaries to maintain their superior financial strength ratings, which may constrain their dividend paying capacity. In 2003, 2002 and 2001, the companys insurance subsidiary paid dividends of $50 million, $100 million and $100 million, respectively, to the parent company. As a result of investment income from its investments and dividends and borrowings from its insurance subsidiary, the parent company met its cash requirements for general operating expenses, interest payments on its long and short term debt, dividends to shareholders and common stock repurchase. Investing activities generated $48 million of cash flow in 2003 after using $39 million in 2002 and $34 million in 2001. Dividends Cincinnati Financial has increased the indicated annual cash dividend rate to shareholders for 44 consecutive years and, periodically, the board of directors authorizes stock dividends or splits. In January 2004, the board of directors authorized a 10.0 percent increase in the regular quarterly cash dividend to an indicated annual rate of $1.10. In February 2003, the board of directors authorized a 12.4 percent increase in the regular quarterly cash dividend to an indicated annual rate of $1.00. In February 2002, the board authorized a 6.0 percent increase; and in February 2001, a 10.5 percent increase. In January 2004, the board also authorized a 5 percent stock dividend payable June 15, 2004, to shareholders of record April 30, 2004. This is the 28th stock dividend or split declared over the past 47 years. 42 Table of Contents Over the past 10 years, the company has paid an average of 45 percent of net income as dividends, with the remaining 55 percent reinvested for future growth. The ability of the company to continue paying cash dividends is subject to factors the board of directors may deem relevant. Common Stock Repurchase The Cincinnati Financial board believes that stock repurchases can help fulfill the companys commitment to enhancing shareholder value. Consequently, the companys board has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares. In 2003, repurchases were made as follows: Number of shares Average repurchased cost per share January 285,000 $ 36.51 February 363,500 34.96 March 290,200 34.70 April 0 0.00 May 103,100 35.74 June 223,700 37.19 July 28,900 37.26 August 0 0.00 September 62,700 39.99 October 1,200 40.00 November 101,300 40.18 December 40,400 40.98 Remaining shares authorized for repurchase 5,278,000 Common stock repurchases for treasury have continued at a steady pace over the last several years and occur whenever management believes that stock prices on the open market are favorable for such repurchases. At a minimum, the company would expect to offset dilution of option exercises. Shares repurchased total 15.6 million, at a total cost to the company of $520 million, since the inception of the share repurchase program in 1996. At December 31, 2003, 5.3 million shares remain authorized for repurchase. Outlook Management continues to believe that cash provided by operating activities will continue to be the primary source of funds for the company. Future liquidity could be affected by catastrophe losses in excess of the companys catastrophe reinsurance treaties, which provide coverage for gross losses up to $400 million. The company has no significant exposure to assumed reinsurance, which accounted for no more than 2.4 percent of earned premiums in each of the last three years and is expected to remain at or near this level in 2004. Management anticipates its insurance subsidiary will pay dividends of at least $75 million to the parent company in 2004. During 2004, the company will determine the timeline for developing additional space at its headquarters location although management anticipates no extraordinary cash outlays in the next two years. Assets At December 31, 2003, the investment portfolio made up 80.3 percent of total assets. The remainder consisted primarily of other invested assets (0.5 percent), premium receivables (6.8 percent), reinsurance receivables (4.0 percent), deferred acquisition costs (2.4 percent) and separate accounts (3.0 percent). These percentages have remained relatively constant over the last few years. Total assets increased 9.8 percent, or $1.387 billion, to $15.509 billion at December 31, 2003. The increase primarily reflected: $1.262 billion increase in investment portfolio assets as discussed below. $104 million increase in premiums receivables and $29 million increase in deferred policy acquisition costs due to the higher premium volume. $27 million increase in reinsurance recoverables is primarily due business growth and an increase in the recoverable related to the companys USAIG pool participation. As discussed under Reinsurance, Page 26, the companys working reinsurance treaties are with highly rated and financially strong reinsurers and the company has experienced no collection or aging problems with the property casualty or life reinsurance receivables. See USAIG Pool Participation, Page 44, for a discussion of that reinsurance recoverable. $36 million increase in separate accounts primarily due to market appreciation of assets held and reinvestment of income as discussed in Separate Accounts, Page 20. Offsetting the increases were a $31 million decline in other assets due to the elimination of a prepaid federal tax assets in 2003 and a $21 million decline in cash. 43 Table of Contents Investment Portfolio The market value of the companys investments was $12.527 billion and $11.265 billion at year end 2003 and 2002, respectively. Insurance regulatory and statutory requirements designed to protect policyholders from investment risk influence the companys investment decisions on an individual insurance company basis. Cash generated from insurance operations is invested almost entirely in five classes of assets evaluated for yield and risk prior to purchase (See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 7, for a discussion of the five classes of assets). The company invests primarily in publicly traded fixed income and equity and equity linked securities, classified as available for sale in the accompanying financial statements. Valuations of all of the companys investments are based on either listed prices or data provided by FT Interactive Data, an outside resource that supplies global securities pricing. Changes in the fair value of these securities, based on the listed prices or information from FT Interactive Data, are reported on the companys balance sheet in other comprehensive income, net of tax. Fixed maturities (bonds and notes) and equity and equity linked securities (common and preferred stocks) are classified as available for sale and recorded at fair value in the financial statements. At December 31, 2003, the companys portfolio of fixed income securities had a weighted average yield to book value of 6.5 percent, a weighted average maturity of 10.2 years and a weighted average modified duration of 5.0 years. At December 31, 2002, the companys portfolio of fixed income securities had a weighted average yield to book of 7.4 percent, a weighted average maturity of 10.6 years and a weighted average modified duration of 4.9 years. The decline in the yield to book was due to lower prevailing interest rates and the reinvestment of funds from calls or redemptions at lower rates. Management is attempting to maintain an intermediate portfolio duration to protect against the anticipated rise in interest rates as the economy continues to improve. Duration can be defined as the average maturity of all bond payments, where each payment is weighted by its value. In the fixed income market, duration is used to measure the sensitivity of an asset price to movements in yields. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 62, for additional information regarding the maturity of the companys fixed income portfolio. Over the past year, the company has invested a higher portion of available funds in U.S. agency paper and insured municipal bonds, resulting in a significant rise in the percentage of the portfolio rated A and above based on fair value (market value). Credit ratings as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, for the companys fixed income portfolio were: (Dollars in millions) As of December 31, 2003 2002 Fair Percent Fair Percent value to total value to total Moodys Ratings Aaa, Aa, A $ 1,958 49.9 % $ 1,180 35.7 % Baa 891 22.7 909 27.5 Ba 370 9.4 424 12.9 B 213 5.4 232 7.0 Caa 83 2.1 90 2.7 Not rated 410 10.5 470 14.2 Total $ 3,925 100.0 % $ 3,305 100.0 % Standard Poors Ratings AAA, AA, A $ 1,914 48.8 % $ 1,174 35.5 % BBB 991 25.2 1,015 30.7 BB 339 8.6 397 12.0 B 208 5.3 228 6.9 CCC 59 1.5 63 1.9 D 7 0.2 0 0.0 Not rated 407 10.4 428 13.0 Total $ 3,925 100.0 % $ 3,305 100.0 % Similar to the equity portfolio, the fixed income portfolio is concentrated in the financials sector, including banks, brokerage, finance and investment and insurance companies. Management leverages its familiarity with this sector in its fixed income portfolio. The financials sector represented 15.6 and 15.9 percent of both the book value and market value, respectively, of the overall fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2003. Approximately 95 of the financials sector holdings are investment grade corporate bonds. No other industry accounts for more than 10 percent of the fixed income portfolio. USAIG Pool Participation In 2003, $324 million, or 52.3 percent of total reinsurance receivables, compared with $311 million in 2002, related to the companys participation in USAIG, a joint underwriting association of individual insurance companies that collectively function as a worldwide 44 Table of Contents insurance market for all types of aviation and aerospace accounts. Due to the companys participation in USAIG for policy years 2001 and prior, The Cincinnati Insurance Company was named as the designated insurer for American Airlines policy year 2000 business. Recoverables resulting from all American Airlines accidents during that year were recorded on The Cincinnati Insurance Companies 2001 financial statements. Management expects to recover 100 percent of the reinsurance recoverables associated with the USAIG participation although it is impossible to estimate the timeframe for recovery due to the complex nature of aviation and aerospace insurance. USAIG has a reinsurance program for its members. Companies participating in the USAIG reinsurance program are all rated A or higher by A.M. Best. Reinsurance recoverables on behalf of unauthorized reinsurers participating in the pool are backed by letters of credit and trust funds from these reinsurers. The company no longer participates in USAIG. Liabilities Overview At December 31, 2003, insurance reserves were 47.7 percent of total liabilities. The remainder consisted primarily of unearned premiums (15.5 percent), deferred income tax (20.9 percent) and long and short term debt (6.5 percent). These percentages have remained relatively constant over a number of years. Total liabilities increased 9.2 percent, or $781 million, to $9.305 billion at December 31, 2003 from December 31, 2002. The increase primarily reflected: $347 million increase in insurance reserves as discussed in Item 1, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 3; Property Casualty Insurance Loss Reserves, Page 18; and Life Insurance Policy Reserves, Page 20, as well as Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 25. The company does not discount its property casualty reserves. $127 million increase in unearned premiums due to higher premium volume. $212 million increase in deferred income tax liability to $1.949 billion at December 31, 2003, primarily because of the increase in unrealized gains in the investment portfolio. Long and Short term Debt At December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, long term debt consisted entirely of $420 million in senior debentures. The senior debenture is not encumbered by rating triggers. The companys excellent cash flow and strong capital position have allowed it to minimize its reliance on debt financing although the company utilizes lines of credit to fund short term cash needs. The company has two lines of credit totaling $250 million at year end 2003. There are two financial covenants for the companys $175 million line of credit. First, consolidated net worth on the last day of each fiscal quarter shall not be less than $5.0 billion or $4.5 billion if such reduction in consolidated net worth is due solely to unrealized losses in the companys portfolio of debt and equity investments; at year end 2003, the companys consolidated net worth was $6.204 billion. Second, the companys consolidated ratio of indebtedness for borrowed money to net worth, at any time during each fiscal quarter, shall not exceed the ratio of 0.25 to 1.00; as of year end 2003, the ratio of indebtedness to net worth was 0.10 to 1.00. The companys $75 million line of credit has no financial covenants. Short term interest rates will fluctuate. Every 100 basis point increase in short term rates will increase annual interest expense by $2 million, before tax, based on the $183 million outstanding on the two lines of credit at year end 2003. During 2001, CFC Investment Company entered into an interest rate swap as a cash hedge of variable interest payments for certain variable rate debt obligations ($31 million notional amount) to better match fixed rate lease assets with liabilities having a fixed financing rate. Under this interest rate swap contract, the company agreed to pay a fixed rate of interest for a seven year period. The contract is considered to be a hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows associated with the related interest payments. Accordingly, the related unrealized gain or loss on this contract is a component of comprehensive income. The interest swap contract is reflected at fair value in the companys balance sheet. The unrealized loss at December 31, 2003 and 2002 was $3 million and $4 million, net of tax. The net effect of this transaction was to fix the interest cost on the short term loan. The company had no off balance sheet arrangements at December 31, 2003. Following is a summary of the contractual obligations and other commercial commitments at December 31, 2003: (In millions) Computer hardware and software (maintenance Annuitization Long term Lines of agreements) obligations debt credit Total Payments due by period: Less than one year $ 2 $ 13 $ 0 $ 183 $ 198 One to three years 2 38 0 0 40 After three years through five years 0 25 0 0 25 More than five years 0 88 420 0 508 Total $ 4 $ 164 $ 420 $ 183 $ 771 45 Table of Contents Shareholders Equity Total shareholders equity was 40.0 percent and 39.8 percent of total assets at year end 2003 and 2002. As a long term investor, the company has followed a buy and hold strategy for more than 40 years. A significant amount of unrealized appreciation on equity investments has been generated as a result of this policy. Unrealized appreciation on equity investments, before deferred income taxes, was $6.037 billion and $5.509 billion at year end 2003 and 2002, respectively. It constituted 65.8 percent of total shareholders equity at year end 2003. (In millions) Years ended December 31, 2003 2002 2001 Common stock, paid in capital less treasury stock $ 134 $ 183 $ 207 Retained earnings 1,986 1,772 1,678 Accumulated other comprehensive income 4,084 3,643 4,113 Total $ 6,204 $ 5,598 $ 5,998 Comprehensive Income During the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, the company had realized investment losses before taxes amounting to $122 million, $152 million and $105 million, offset by realized investment gains of $81 million, $58 million and $80 million, respectively. At December 31, 2003, unrealized investment gains before taxes totaled $6.322 billion and unrealized investment losses in the investment portfolio amounted to $29 million. The unrealized appreciation was primarily due to the companys holdings in Fifth Third (Nasdaq: FITB) and Alltel Corporation (NYSE:AT) common stock. 46 Table of Contents Item 7(a). Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Introduction Market risk is the potential for a decrease in value resulting from broad yet uncontrollable forces such as: inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions or other widespread unpredictable events. It is comprised of many individual risks that, when combined, create a macroeconomic impact. Some of the risks are: Political the potential for a decrease in market value due to the real or perceived impact of governmental policies or conditions Regulatory the potential for a decrease in market value due to the impact of legislative proposals or changes in the laws or regulations Economic the potential for a decrease in value due to changes in general economic factors (recession, inflation, deflation, etc.) Revaluation the potential for a decrease in market value due to a change in relative value (change in market multiple) of the market brought on by general economic factors Interest rate the potential for a decrease in market value of a security or portfolio due to its sensitivity to changes (increases or decreases) in the general level of interest rates Company specific risk is the potential for a particular issuer to experience a decline in valuation due to the impact of sector or market risk on the holding or because of issues specific to the firm: Fraud the potential for a negative impact on an issuers performance due to actual or alleged illegal or improper activity of individuals it employs Credit the potential for deterioration in an issuers financial profile due to specific company issues, problems it faces in the course of its operations or industry related issues Default the possibility that an issuer will not make a required payment (interest payment or return of principal) on its debt. Generally this occurs after its financial profile has deteriorated (credit risk) and it no longer has the means to make its payments The investment committee of the board of directors monitors the investment risk management process primarily through its executive oversight of investment activities. The company takes an active approach to managing market and other investment risks, including the accountabilities and controls over these activities. Actively managing these market risks is integral to the companys operations and could require a change in the character of future investments purchased or sold or require a shift in the existing asset portfolios to manage exposure to market risk within acceptable ranges. The approach is applied daily by the companys portfolio managers and analysts to each of the five asset classes in which the company invests. Sector risk is the potential for a negative impact on a particular industry due to its sensitivity to factors that make up market risk. Market risk affects general supply/demand factors for an industry and will affect companies within that industry to varying degrees. Risks associated with the five asset classes described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 7, can be summarized as follows (H high, A average, L low): Investment grade High yield Tax exempt Common Convertible corporate bonds corporate bonds municipal bonds stocks securities Political A A H A A Regulatory A A A A A Economic A H A H H Revaluation A H A H A Interest rate H A H A A Fraud A A L A A Credit A H L A A Default L H L A A Fixed Income Securities For investment grade corporate bonds, the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices leads to falling bond values during periods of increasing interest rates. Although the potential for a worsening financial condition, and ultimately default, does exist with investment grade corporate bonds, their higher quality financial profiles make credit risk less of a concern than for lower quality investments. The company addresses this risk by consistently investing within a particular maturity range, which has, over the years, provided the portfolio with a laddered maturity schedule less subject to large swings in value due to interest rate changes. While a single maturity range may see values drop due to general interest rate levels, other maturity ranges will be less affected by those changes. Additionally, purchases are spread across a wide spectrum of industries and companies, diversifying the companys holdings and minimizing the impact of specific industries or companies with greater sensitivities to interest rate fluctuations. 47 Table of Contents The primary risk related to high yield corporate bonds is credit risk or the potential for a deteriorating financial structure. A weak financial profile can lead to rating downgrades from the credit rating agencies, which can put further downward pressure on bond prices. Interest rate risk is less of a factor with high yield corporate bonds, as valuation is related more directly to underlying operating performance than to general interest rates. This puts more emphasis on the financial results achieved by the issuer rather than general economic trends or statistics within the marketplace. The company addresses this concern by analyzing issuer and industry specific financial results and by closely monitoring holdings within this asset class. The primary risks related to tax exempt bonds are interest rate risk and geo political risk associated with the specific economic environment within the political boundaries of the issuing municipal entity. The company addresses these concerns by focusing on municipalities general obligation debt and on essential service bonds. Essential service bonds derive a revenue stream from the services provided by the municipality, which are vital to the people living in the area (schools, water service, sewer service, etc.). Another risk related to tax exempt bonds is regulatory risk or the potential for legislative changes that would negate the benefit of owning tax exempt bonds. The company monitors regulatory activity for situations that may negatively affect current holdings and its ongoing strategy for investing in these securities. The final, less significant risk is a small exposure to credit risk for a portion of the tax exempt portfolio that has support from corporate entities. Examples are bonds insured by corporate bond insurers or bonds with interest payments made by a corporate entity through a municipal conduit/authority. While decisions regarding these investments primarily consider the underlying municipal situation, the existence of third party insurance reduces risk in the event of default. In circumstances in which the municipality was unable to meet its obligations, risk would be increased if the insuring entity were experiencing financial duress. Because of the companys diverse exposure and selection of higher rated entities with strong financial profiles, the company does not believe this is a material concern. Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis The company is using a dynamic financial planning model developed during 2002 to further incorporate analytical tools in assessing market risks. Management believes the model is improving the companys ability to measure the impact on bond values resulting from changes in interest rates. Improved measurement of the impact of interest rate changes should allow for improved matching of the companys assets and liabilities. Hypothetically, an increase in interest rates (market yields to maturity) of 100 basis points at December 31, 2003, would decrease the fair value of the fixed income portfolio by approximately 5.0 percent or $195 million, or to $3.730 billion from $3.925 billion. Investment grade corporate bonds have the greatest sensitivity to interest rate changes. Based on the present duration of the investment grade corporate bond portfolio, a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a 5.5 percent decline in the fair value of that portion of the portfolio. This would be offset by the callable agency paper, which has higher coupons and, therefore, lower duration effects. The tax exempt municipal bond portfolio, with a longer average maturity schedule, would be somewhat less sensitive to interest rate increases, while the high yield corporate bond portfolio would be even less sensitive. Because of the companys large surplus, long term investment horizon and its ability to hold most fixed income investments until maturity, management believes the company is well positioned for a rise in interest rates. A higher rate environment would provide the opportunity to reinvest cash flow in higher yielding securities. The potential decline in fair values due to an interest rate increase would not signal a decline in credit quality. Management believes that lower values due solely to interest rate changes would not signal the likelihood of additional other than temporary impairments. In the dynamic financial planning model, the selected interest rate change of 100 basis points represents managements views of a shift in rates that is quite possible over a one year period. The rates modeled should not be considered a prediction of future events as interest rates may be much more volatile in the future. The analysis is not intended to provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in rates on the companys results or financial condition, nor does it take into account any actions that might be taken to reduce exposure to such risks. Equity and Equity linked Securities Common stocks are subject to a variety of risk factors encompassed under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying industries and companies within those industries. A downturn in the economy will have a negative impact on an equity portfolio. Industry and company specific risks have the potential to substantially affect the market value of the companys equity portfolio. The company addresses these risks by maintaining investments in a small group of holdings that management can analyze closely, better understanding their business and the related risk factors. At December 31, 2003, the company held 15 individual equity positions valued at approximately $100 million or above, see Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 7, for additional details on these holdings. These equity positions accounted for approximately 95 percent of the after tax net unrealized appreciation of the entire portfolio. Management believes the companys equity investment style centered on companies that pay and increase dividends to shareholders is an appropriate long term strategy. While the companys long term financial position would be affected by changes in the market valuation of its investments, management believes the companys strong surplus position and healthy cash flow provides it with a cushion against short term fluctuations in valuation. The continued payment of cash dividends by the companys common equities also provides a floor to their valuation. Management is cognizant that a prolonged downturn in the stocks of financial institutions would create the greatest long term negative effect on the portfolio. While past performance cannot guarantee future returns, over the longer term, the performance of the companys equity portfolio has exceeded that of the broader market with a five year total return of 23.7 percent compared with a decline of 2.8 percent for the Standard Poors 500 Index, a common benchmark of market performance. In 2003, the equity portfolio underperformed the market with a total return of 9.3 percent compared with the Standard Poors 500s return of 28.7 percent. The primary reason for the 48 Table of Contents difference was the technology led nature of the 2003 market rally, a market sector in which the company has virtually no holdings. Financial institution and healthcare and pharmaceutical related issue indices generated returns more in line with the performance of the companys portfolio. Fifth Thirds value in 2003 was affected by uncertainty surrounding a regulatory review announced in late 2002. Some of the uncertainty was removed when Fifth Third entered into a written agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank and the Ohio Department of Commerce in late March 2003. In the agreement, Fifth Third outlined the series of steps its management has been taking to strengthen identified areas. At that time, Fifth Third noted that management is extremely serious about risk management and internal controls and that the company is taking the necessary steps to strengthen procedures to fully cooperate with the regulatory agencies. Fifth Third stated that these efforts, many of which had already begun, will result in Fifth Third emerging from this process as an even stronger company. Fifth Third continues to report results that meet Cincinnati Financials investing criteria of increasing sales, earnings and dividends. In addition, Cincinnati Financial management believes Fifth Third has proven management and a favorable outlook. The company held 72.8 million shares of Fifth Third common stock at a cost of $283 million at December 31, 2003. The market value of the companys Fifth Third position was $4.301 billion at year end 2003, or 52.7 percent of the companys total common equity portfolio, compared with $4.261 billion, or 54.0 percent, at year end 2002. The after tax unrealized gain represented by the companys Fifth Third position was $2.612 billion, or 63.8 percent of the companys total after tax unrealized gains at year end 2003, compared with $2.586 billion, or 71.0 percent, at year end 2002. The Fifth Third position represented $16.28 of the companys total book value of $38.69 per share at year end 2003 compared with $16.00 of year end 2002 book value of $34.65. Every $1.00 change in the market price of Fifth Thirds common stock has approximately a 29 cent impact on Cincinnati Financials book value per share. A 20 percent ($11.82) change in the market price of Fifth Thirds common stock, which was $59.10 at year end 2003, would result in a $860 million change in assets and a $559 million change in after tax unrealized gains. This would affect shareholders equity by 9.0 percent and book value by $3.49 per share. The primary risk related to convertible securities is similar to other corporate fixed income securities in terms of their sensitivity to interest rates, credit risk and default risk. The better the financial condition of the underlying issuer, the lower the credit risk. However, the pricing of convertible securities is more likely to be driven by the relationship of the underlying common stock price to the strike price of the embedded option. If the underlying stock price is well below the strike price, the convertible security will trade more like a pure fixed income instrument and be more interest rate sensitive. However, as the underlying stock approaches the option strike price, the convertible will be less interest rate sensitive and more responsive to movements in the stock. Potential Impairments Management monitors securities trading below 70 percent of book value for potential other than temporary impairment in line with its asset impairment policy discussed in Asset Impairment, Page 19. The reduction in the number of securities trading below 100 percent of book value at year end 2003 compared with year end 2002 reflected the recent emphasis on increasing the credit quality of the bond portfolio, as rated by Standard Poors and Moodys, as well as the downward shift in the yield curve and compression of the spread with treasury bonds. Further, during 2003 and 2002, 49 and 30 securities, respectively, were written down as other than temporarily impaired. The asset impairment policy evaluates: significant decreases in the market value of the assets; changes in legal factors or in the business climate; or other such factors indicating whether or not the carrying amount may be recoverable. A declining trend in market value, the extent of the market value decline and the length of time in which the value has been depressed are objective measures that can be outweighed by subjective measures such as impending events and issuer liquidity. Impairment is evaluated in the event of a declining market value for four consecutive quarters with quarter end market value below 50 percent of book value or a market value 50 percent below book value for three consecutive quarters. In addition to applying the impairment policy, the status of the portfolio is constantly monitored by the companys portfolio managers for indications of potential problems or issues that may be possible impairment issues. If a significant impairment indicator is noted, the portfolio managers even more closely scrutinize the security. As a result of the application of the impairment policy, there are just two securities with a combined book value of $70 thousand trading below 70 percent of book value at year end 2003, compared with 59 securities with a market value of $139 million and a book value of $231 million, or 2.0 percent of total invested assets, at year end 2002. As discussed in Asset Impairment, Page 19, when evaluating other than temporary impairments, management considers the companys ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover a substantial portion of their cost. Because of the companys investment philosophy and strong capitalization, it can hold securities until their scheduled redemption that might otherwise be deemed impaired as management evaluates their potential for recovery based economic, industry or company factors. Management deems the risk related to securities trading between 70 percent and 100 percent of book value to be relatively minor and at least partially offset by the earned income potential of these investments. At year end 2003, impairment to market value of all 116 securities trading in this range would have resulted in only $24 million in additional realized investment losses, before tax. These 116 securities, which represented 5.2 percent of the total market value of the portfolio, generated $25 million, or 5.5 percent, of total earned investment income. 49 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the portfolio by period of time: (Dollars in millions) 6 Months or less 6 12 Months 12 24 Months 24 36 Months Gross Gross Gross Gross Number unrealized Number unrealized Number unrealized Number unrealized of issues gain/loss of issues gain/loss of issues gain/loss of issues gain/loss Investment grade corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 41 (5 ) 1 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 32 4 56 11 171 64 149 64 Total 73 $ (1 ) 57 $ 11 171 $ 64 149 $ 64 High yield corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 1 $ 0 1 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 9 0 1 0 10 (4 ) 20 (5 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 54 7 42 15 31 13 30 6 Total 64 $ 7 44 $ 15 41 $ 9 50 $ 1 Tax exempt municipal bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 6 0 4 0 1 0 9 (3 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 63 3 74 8 95 11 363 58 Total 69 $ 3 78 $ 8 96 $ 11 372 $ 55 Convertible securities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 2 0 1 0 3 (2 ) 5 (1 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 22 4 24 16 17 19 15 24 Total 24 $ 4 25 $ 16 20 $ 17 20 $ 23 Common stocks: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 0 0 0 0 2 (4 ) 1 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 13 16 9 32 2 2 24 5,940 Total 13 $ 16 9 $ 32 4 $ (2 ) 25 $ 5,940 Summary: Trading below 70% of book value 1 $ 0 1 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 58 (5 ) 7 0 16 (10 ) 35 (9 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 184 34 205 82 316 109 581 6,092 Total 243 $ 29 213 $ 82 332 $ 99 616 $ 6,083 The two issues trading below 70 percent of book value at December 31, 2003, had been at that level for 12 months or less. At December 31, 2003, no securities in the companys portfolio had traded below 70 percent of book value for more than 12 months. For all 116 securities trading at 70 percent to less than 100 percent of book value, 51 securities representing $19 million in unrealized losses had been trading in that range for more than 12 months; seven securities representing less than $1 million in unrealized losses had been trading in that range for more than six to 12 months; and 58 securities representing $5 million in unrealized losses had been trading in that range for six months or less. Of the total 118 holdings trading below book value at December 31, 2003, three were common stocks and 11 were convertible securities representing total unrealized losses of $7 million. Financials sector securities accounted for $6 million, or 25.4 percent, of the unrealized losses. At year end, total financials sector securities in the common equity portfolio had a market value of $5.753 billion. The other $18 million in unrealized losses was spread across a variety of industries. Reflecting the companys long term investment philosophy, of the 1,286 securities trading at or above book value, 581, or 45.2 percent, have shown unrealized gains for more than 24 months. Based on current information, the company anticipates application of its policy will result in other than temporary impairment charges less than $5 million in the first quarter of 2004, barring new developments affecting individual companies or industries in the portfolio. 50 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the portfolio: (Dollars in millions) Gross Gross Number unrealized investment At December 31, 2003 of issues Book value Market value gain/loss income Investment grade corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 42 372 367 (5 ) 8 Trading at 100% and above of book value 408 1,501 1,644 143 94 Securities sold in current year 7 Total 450 $ 1,873 $ 2,011 $ 138 $ 109 High yield corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 2 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 40 117 108 (9 ) 10 Trading at 100% and above of book value 157 388 429 41 34 Securities sold in current year 15 Total 199 $ 505 $ 537 $ 32 $ 59 Tax exempt municipal bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 20 57 54 (3 ) 2 Trading at 100% and above of book value 595 1,124 1,204 80 57 Securities sold in current year 4 Total 615 $ 1,181 $ 1,258 $ 77 $ 63 Convertible securities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 11 56 53 (3 ) 4 Trading at 100% and above of book value 78 367 430 63 25 Securities sold in current year 6 Total 89 $ 423 $ 483 $ 60 $ 35 Common stocks: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 3 70 66 (4 ) 1 Trading at 100% and above of book value 48 2,104 8,094 5,990 192 Securities sold in current year 3 Total 51 $ 2,174 $ 8,160 $ 5,986 $ 196 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 2 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 116 672 648 (24 ) 25 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,286 5,484 11,801 6,317 402 Securities sold in current year 35 Total 1,404 $ 6,156 $ 12,449 $ 6,293 $ 462 At December 31, 2002 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 59 $ 231 $ 139 $ (92 ) $ 15 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 214 896 815 (81 ) 63 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,087 4,468 10,235 5,767 346 Securities sold in current year 18 Total 1,360 $ 5,595 $ 11,189 $ 5,594 $ 442 51 Table of Contents 
 
