Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction 23 Executive Summary 23 Safe Harbor 24 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 25 Results of Operations 31 Outlook 32 Property Casualty Insurance Operations 33 Commercial Lines Results of Operations 35 Personal Lines Results of Operations 40 Life Insurance Results of Operations 45 Investments Results of Operations 47 Liquidity and Capital Resources 51 Cash Flow 51 Assets 52 Liabilities 55 Shareholders Equity 62 Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Introduction 63 Fixed income Securities 63 Equity and Equity linked Securities 65 Unrealized Investment Gains and Losses 66 2004 10 K Page 22 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The purpose of the Managements Discussion and Analysis is to provide an understanding of Cincinnati Financial Corporations (CFC) consolidated results of operations and financial position. It begins with an overview of the company and its outlook, a safe harbor statement that covers factors that could cause results to differ from those anticipated by management and details on the companys critical accounting policies and estimates. It should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, Pages 20 and 21, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes, beginning on Page 72. Per share amounts have been adjusted for the 5 percent stock dividend paid June 15, 2004; per share data has not been adjusted for the 5 percent stock dividend to be paid on April 26, 2005. Unless otherwise noted, estimated industry data are referenced from materials presented on a statutory basis by A.M. Best, a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and financial strength rating organization. Statutory data for the company is labeled as such; all other company data is presented on a GAAP basis. Executive Summary Cincinnati Financial Corporation is the parent company of the nations 25th largest property casualty insurer, based on statutory net written premium volume through the first nine months of 2004. The company marketed property casualty insurance products through a select group of 986 independent insurance agencies in 31 states at year end 2004. The company is built on a foundation of personal relationships with these local independent insurance agents. These agents have an informed, front line perspective that benefits policyholders as well as the company, helping to create profitability and value for shareholders. Local resident field marketing and other associates live in the communities they serve, working from offices in their homes and providing 24/7 availability. They are assigned directly to agencies, where they are able to provide prompt and personal service, gain firsthand knowledge and be effective decision makers for the company. The company differentiates itself by its commitment to: providing exceptional claims service and field underwriting through locally based associates serving the needs of agents and policyholders; offering competitive products, rates and compensation; and maintaining excellent financial strength ratings. Headquarters associates, including approximately 600 underwriters, are assigned to specific agencies and provide important support to the field staff and agencies. In addition to property casualty insurance products, the company offers life insurance, leasing and asset management services to help attract and retain high quality independent insurance agencies. This strategy helps diversify revenues and profitability for both the agency and the company and enhances the already strong relationship built by the property casualty operations. Among the various factors that influence the consolidated results of operations and financial position of the company, management considers its relationships with independent agencies to be the most significant. To continue to achieve its performance targets, the company must maintain its strong relationships with the select group of agencies with which it does business, write a significant portion of each agencys business and attract new agencies. The company seeks to be an indispensable partner in each agencys success. The company measures its accomplishment of this objective based on being the largest or second largest carrier in each agency, either by dollars of premium or number of policies written, depending on the agencys mix of business. The companys strong surplus and asset positions provide security for policyholders while allowing for a successful, equity centered investment strategy. By consistently applying long term strategies rather than taking short term actions, the company seeks to build shareholder value by: Achieving above industry average growth in property casualty statutory net written premiums and maintaining industry leading profitability by leveraging its regional franchise and proven agency centered business strategy. Pursuing a total return investment strategy that generates both strong investment income growth and capital appreciation. Maintaining financial strength by keeping the ratio of debt to capital low and purchasing reinsurance to protect investment flexibility. Increasing the total return to shareholders through a combination of higher earnings per share, growth in book value and increasing dividends. The board of directors is committed to steadily increasing cash dividends and periodically authorizing stock dividends and splits. The board has increased the indicated annual dividend rate for 45 consecutive years, a record the company believes is matched by only 11 other publicly traded corporations. In 2004, the company reported record results, as described in detail in the results of operations. Statutory net written premium growth outpaced the estimated industry average while the combined ratio, a common measure of profitability 2004 10 K Page 23 Table of Contents for property casualty insurers, was significantly better than the estimated industry average. The growth rate of investment income reached its highest level in four years and book value reached a new record, as growth in net income more than offset market fluctuations in the equity portfolio. The companys financial position continued to strengthen with assets at a record level. The company currently is pursuing a number of strategies to help it achieve its performance objectives over the next several years: Increasing business with existing agencies by continuing to provide personal service. Improving ease of doing business and communication with agencies through an expanding portfolio of technology solutions. The company expects to continue to strengthen its relationships with agencies through the introduction and use of technology that is designed to bring agencies greater efficiencies and permit associates to spend more time with people and less with paper. Subdividing field marketing territories to further increase the companys representatives presence in, and their ability to serve, each agency. Appointing additional agencies in markets where the company has identified a need for insurance products and services and an opportunity to capture a greater market share. Resume equity investing. The company remains fully committed to an equity investment focus that management believes is a key to the companys long term growth and stability. The company will continue to invest for income and growth, focusing on a total return strategy supported by investments in dividend paying companies. In 2005, management believes the company will achieve statutory net written premium growth in the mid single digits and a GAAP combined ratio of 91 percent (equivalent to approximately 91 percent on a statutory basis). A.M. Best estimates that 2005 net written premiums industry wide may rise by 1 percent and that the 2005 industry statutory combined ratio may be approximately 97.3 percent. Currently, management anticipates pretax investment income growth in 2005 in the range of 5 percent to 6 percent. The investment portfolio is positioned for long term capital appreciation. Equity and equity linked securities make up 34.0 percent of the portfolio based on book value and 62.7 percent based on market value at year end 2004. Management expects that the impact of these anticipated strong operating results will be tempered in 2005 by the adoption of option expensing and slightly higher interest expense on long term debt, which increased modestly with the November 2004 issue of $375 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2034. The company will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (R), Share Based Payment, which calls for stock option expense to be included as a component of net income, in the third quarter of 2005. Pro forma option expense as disclosed in Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, would have reduced earnings per share by 7 cents in both 2004 and 2003 and 8 cents in 2002. Safe Harbor Statement This is a Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain forward looking statements contained herein involve potential risks and uncertainties. The companys future results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes Ability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased and financial strength of reinsurers Increased frequency and or severity of claims Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the companys relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the companys opportunities for growth, such as: Downgrade of the companys financial strength ratings, Concerns that doing business with the company is too difficult or Perceptions that the companys level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace Insurance regulatory actions, legislation or court decisions or legal actions that increase expenses or place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace Delays in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements Inaccurate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates, including loss reserves 2004 10 K Page 24 Table of Contents Events that reduce the companys ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 in the future Recession or other economic conditions or regulatory, accounting or tax changes resulting in lower demand for insurance products Sustained decline in overall stock market values negatively affecting the companys equity portfolio, in particular a sustained decline in the market value of Fifth Third Bancorp shares, a significant equity holding Events that lead to a significant decline in the market value of a particular security and impairment of the asset Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the companys ability to generate growth in investment income Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings Effect on the insurance industry as a whole, and thus on the companys business, of the suit brought by the Attorney General of the State of New York against participants in the insurance industry, as well as any increased regulatory oversight that might result from the suit Limited flexibility in conducting investment activities if the restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act of 1940 were to become applicable to the parent company Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain. Readers are cautioned that the company undertakes no obligation to review or update the forward looking statements included herein. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Cincinnati Financial Corporations financial statements are prepared using GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76. In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the companys critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting policies, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may be appropriate. Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves Overview The most significant estimates relate to the companys reserves for property casualty loss and loss expenses. Management believes that the stability of the companys business makes its historical data the most important source for establishing adequate reserve levels. Management bases reserve estimates on company experience and information from internal analyses, obtaining additional information from consulting outside actuaries. When reviewing reserves, management analyzes historical data and estimates the effect of various loss development factors. Management believes that the following represent the primary risks to its ability to estimate loss reserves accurately: Court decisions that result in unanticipated coverage expansions on past and existing policies Changes in medical inflation and mortality rates that affect workers compensation claims Changes in claim cost trends, including the effects of general economic and tort cost inflation, not reflected in the historical data used to estimate loss reserves Changes in reinsurance coverage, not reflected in reserving data, that affect the companys net payments and net case reserves Payment and reporting pattern changes attributable to the implementation of a new claims management system Reporting pattern changes attributable to changes in case reserving practices, particularly with respect to umbrella claims 2004 10 K Page 25 Table of Contents Absence of cost effective methods for assessing asbestos and environmental claim liabilities accurately (see Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Asbestos and Environmental Reserves, Page 56, for discussion of related reserve levels and trends) Any of these factors can cause the companys ultimate loss experience to be better or worse than reserves held, and the difference could be material. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and strengthened, the amount of such increase is treated as a charge in the period that the deficiency is recognized, raising the loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. To the extent that reserves are redundant and released, the amount of the release is a credit in the period that the redundancy is recognized, reducing the loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings. A reserve change of $29 million has a 1 percentage point effect on the loss and loss expense ratio, based on 2004 earned premiums. Each 1 percentage point change in the loss and loss expense ratio has a $19 million effect on income and an 11 cent per share effect on net income per share, based on 2004 earned premiums. Establishing Reserves Reserves are established for the total of unpaid loss and loss expenses, including estimates for claims that have been reported, estimates for claims that have been incurred but not yet reported (IBNR) and estimates of loss expenses associated with processing and settling those claims. Reserves are determined for the various lines of business. Loss reserves are reduced by salvage and subrogation reserves. Management establishes case reserves for claims that have been reported within the parameters of coverage provided in the policy. Individual case reserves greater than $35,000 established by field claims representatives are reviewed by experienced headquarters claims supervisors while case reserves greater than $100,000 are reviewed by headquarters claims managers. The estimates reflect informed judgment and experience of the companys claims associates based on general insurance reserving practices and their experience with the company. Case reserves are reviewed on a 90 day cycle, or more frequently if specific circumstances require, based on events such as the status of ongoing negotiations. In 2001, the company began to establish higher initial case reserves on serious liability claims to reflect recent experience indicating the likelihood that juries would ignore significant liability issues in cases involving seriously injured claimants. To establish IBNR reserves on an annual basis, management uses a variety of tools, including actuarial and statistical methods. These may include but are not limited to: The Case Incurred Development Method The Paid Development Method The Bornhuetter Ferguson Method Supplemental statistical information is compiled and reviewed to aid in the application of the actuarial methods. The supplemental data also is used to evaluate the reasonableness of estimates derived from the actuarial methods. This information includes: Industry loss frequency and severity and premium trends Past, present and anticipated product pricing Anticipated premium growth Other quantifiable trends Projected ultimate loss ratios Management conducts its thorough evaluation of the adequacy of reserves as of the end of the third quarter of each year. As a result, the most significant refinements in reserves historically have been implemented in the fourth quarter. Less detailed, periodic reviews of reserve adequacy are made at the other quarter ends. A loss review committee, including internal actuaries and representatives from management of multiple operating departments, is responsible for the quarterly review process. The internal actuaries provide a point estimate to summarize their analysis. At year end 2004 and 2003, IBNR reserves differed from the internal actuarial point estimate by less than 1 percent of the companys loss and loss expense reserve. Adjusting Reserves While the company believes that reported reserves provide for all unpaid loss and loss expense obligations, the estimation processes involve a number of variables and assumptions. Management believes this uncertainty is mitigated by the historical stability of the companys book of business and by its periodic reviews of estimates. As loss experience develops and new information becomes known, the reserve is reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. In this process, the company monitors trends in the industry, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional exposures to loss. If management determines that reserves established in prior years were not sufficient or were excessive, the change is reflected in current year results. 2004 10 K Page 26 Table of Contents Outside Actuarial Review As part of its internal processes, management utilizes an outside actuary to provide management with an opinion regarding an acceptable range for adequate statutory reserves based on generally accepted actuarial guidelines. Historically, the company has established adequate reserves that have fallen in the upper half of the outside actuarys range. This approach has resulted in recognition of reserve redundancies (see Item 1, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Development of Loss and Loss Expenses, Page 5, for a 10 year history of reserve development). Modestly redundant reserves support the companys business strategy to retain high financial strength ratings and remain a market for agencies business in all market conditions. The outside actuaries conduct a thorough evaluation of the adequacy of reserves as of the end of the third quarter of each year and conduct a supplemental review of full year data at year end. Highly Uncertain Exposures In the normal course of its business, the company may provide coverage for exposures for which estimates of losses are highly uncertain. Most significant are catastrophic events. Due to the nature of these events, management is unable to predict precisely the frequency or potential cost of catastrophe occurrences. However, in an effort to control such losses, the company foregoes marketing property casualty insurance in California, reviews aggregate exposures to huge disasters and monitors its exposure in certain coastal regions. The company has catastrophe exposure to: Hurricanes in the gulf and southeastern coastal regions Earthquakes in the New Madrid fault zone, which lies within the central Mississippi valley, extending from northeast Arkansas through southeast Missouri, western Tennessee and western Kentucky to southern Illinois and southern Indiana Tornado, wind and hail in the Midwest, Southeast and mid Atlantic regions The company uses the Risk Management Solutions and Applied Insurance Research models to evaluate exposures to a once in 250 year event in determining appropriate reinsurance coverage programs. Reinsurance mitigates the risk of these highly uncertain exposures and limits the maximum net loss that can arise from large risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure. In conjunction with these activities, the company also continues to explore and analyze credible scientific evidence, including the impact of global climate change, which may affect its exposure under insurance policies. Managements decisions regarding the appropriate level of property casualty risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in the companys underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions. See Item 1, Reinsurance, Page 6, for a discussion of the companys 2005 reinsurance treaties. Asset Impairment Fixed income and equity investments are the companys largest assets. Certain estimates and assumptions made by management relative to investment portfolio assets are critical. The companys asset impairment committee continually monitors investments and all other assets for signs of other than temporary and or permanent impairment. Among other signs, the committee monitors significant decreases in the market value of the assets, changes in legal factors or in the business climate, an accumulation of costs in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset, uncollectability of all other assets, or other factors such as bankruptcy, deterioration of creditworthiness, failure to pay interest or dividends or signs indicating that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of the companys impairment policy resulted in other than temporary impairment charges and write offs of investments that reduced the companys income before income taxes by $6 million, $80 million and $98 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other than temporary impairment in the value of securities is defined by the company as declines in valuation that meet specific criteria established in the asset impairment policy. Such declines often occur in conjunction with events taking place in the overall economy and market, combined with events specific to the industry or operations of the issuing corporation. These specific criteria include a declining trend in market value, the extent of the market value decline and the length of time the value of the security has been depressed, as well as subjective measures such as pending events and issuer liquidity. Generally, these declines in valuation are greater than might be anticipated when viewed in the context of overall economic and market conditions. See Investment Portfolio, Page 53, for information regarding valuation of the invested assets. Impairment charges are recorded for other than temporary declines in value, if, in the asset impairment committees judgment, there is little expectation that the value will be recouped in the foreseeable future. The impairment policy defines a security as distressed when it is trading below 70 percent of book value or has a Moodys or Standard Poors credit rating below B3/B . Distressed securities are monitored as potentially impaired. The security may be written down in the event of a declining market value for four consecutive quarters with quarter end market value below 50 percent of book value, or when a securitys market value is 50 percent below book value for three consecutive quarters. A sudden and severe drop in market value that does not otherwise meet the above criteria is reviewed for possible immediate impairment. Notwithstanding the above, the companys portfolio managers constantly 2004 10 K Page 27 Table of Contents monitor the status of their assigned portfolios for indications of potential problems or issues that may be possible impairment issues. If an impairment indicator is noted, the portfolio managers even more closely scrutinize the security. When evaluating other than temporary impairments, the committee considers the companys ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover a significant percentage of cost. Because of the companys investment philosophy and strong capitalization, it can hold securities that have the potential to recover value until their scheduled redemption, when they might otherwise be deemed impaired. Investment assets that have already been impaired are evaluated based on their adjusted book value and further written down, if deemed appropriate. The decision to sell or write down an asset with impairment indications reflects, at least in part, managements opinion that the security no longer meets the companys investment expectations. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, Unrealized Investment Gains and Losses, Page 66, for detailed information regarding securities trading in a continuous loss position at December 31, 2004. Other than temporary declines in the fair value of investments are recognized in net income as realized losses at the time when facts and circumstances indicate such write downs are warranted. Permanent impairment charges (write offs) are defined as those for which management believes there is little potential for future recovery, for example, following the bankruptcy of the issuing corporation. These permanent declines in the fair value of investments are written off at the time when facts and circumstances indicate such write downs are warranted, and they are reflected in realized losses. Other than temporary and permanent impairments are distinct from the ordinary fluctuations seen in the value of a security when considered in the context of overall economic and market conditions. Securities considered to have a temporary decline would be expected to recover their market value, which may be at maturity, or are fixed income securities that the company intends to hold until maturity. Under the same accounting treatment as market value gains, temporary declines (changes in the fair value of these securities) are reflected on the companys balance sheet in other comprehensive income, net of tax, and have no impact on reported net income. Life Insurance Policy Reserves Reserves for traditional life insurance policies are based on expected expenses, mortality, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for adverse deviation. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. Expected mortality is derived primarily from industry experience. Withdrawal rates are based on company and industry experience, while investment yield is based on company experience and the economic conditions then in effect. Reserves for the companys universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts are equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Employee Benefit Plan The company has a defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all employees. Contributions and pension costs are developed from annual actuarial valuations. These valuations involve key assumptions including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated each year. Any adjustments to these assumptions are based on considerations of current market conditions. Therefore, changes in the related pension costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in assumptions. The key assumptions used in developing the 2004 net pension expense were a 6.0 percent discount rate, an 8.0 percent expected return on plan assets and rates of compensation increases ranging from 5 percent to 7 percent, depending on the age of the employee. The 8.0 percent return on plan assets assumption is based on the fact that substantially all of the investments held by the pension plan are common stocks that pay annual dividends. Management believes this rate is representative of the expected long term rate of return on these assets. These assumptions were consistent with the prior year except that the discount rate was reduced by one half of one percent due to current market conditions. In 2004, the net pension expense was $9 million. In 2005, the company expects a net pension expense of $12 million, primarily as a result of a 0.5 percent reduction in the discount rate and increased service costs. Holding all other assumptions constant, a one half of one percent increase or decrease in the discount rate would have increased or decreased the companys 2004 net income before income taxes by $1 million. Likewise, a one half of one percent increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have increased or decreased 2004 income before income taxes by $1 million. In addition, the fair value of the plan assets exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation by $16 million at December 31, 2004, and by $21 million at December 31, 2003. The fair value of the plan assets was less than the projected plan benefit obligation by $41 million at December 31, 2004, and by $29 million at December 31, 2003. Market conditions and interest rates significantly affect future assets and liabilities of the pension plan. The company expects to contribute approximately $10 million to its pension plan in 2005. 2004 10 K Page 28 Table of Contents Deferred Acquisition Costs The company establishes a deferred asset for costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring property casualty and life business. These costs are principally agent commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting costs, which are deferred and amortized into income as premiums are earned. Deferred acquisition costs have grown in line with the growth in premiums. Underlying assumptions are updated periodically to reflect actual experience. Changes in the amounts or timing of estimated future profits could result in adjustments to the accumulated amortization of these costs. For property casualty policies, deferred costs are amortized over the terms of the policies. For life policies, acquisition costs are amortized into income either over the premium paying period of the policies or the life of the policy, depending on the policy type. Contingent Commission Accrual Another significant estimate relates to the companys accrual for contingent (profit sharing) commissions. Management bases the contingent commission accrual estimates on property casualty underwriting results and on supplemental property casualty information. Contingent commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account overall agency profitability and other factors, such as prompt monthly payment of amounts due to the company. Due to the complexity of the calculation and the variety of factors that can affect contingent commissions for an individual agency, the amount accrued can differ from the actual contingent commissions paid. The contingent commission accrual of $104 million in 2004 contributed 3.5 percentage points to the property casualty combined ratio. If commissions paid were to vary from that amount by 5 percent, it would affect 2005 net income by $3 million, or 2 cents per share, and the combined ratio by approximately 0.2 percentage points. Separate Accounts The company issues life contracts, referred to as bank owned life insurance policies (BOLI). Based on the specific contract provisions, the assets and liabilities for some BOLIs are legally segregated and recorded as assets and liabilities of the separate accounts. Other BOLIs are included in the general account. For separate account BOLIs, minimum investment returns and account values are guaranteed by the company and also include death benefits to beneficiaries of the contract holders. Separate account assets are carried at fair value. Separate account liabilities primarily represent the contract holders claims to the related assets and also are carried at the fair value of the assets. Generally, investment income and realized investment gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contract holders and, therefore, are not included in the companys Consolidated Statements of Income. However, each separate account contract includes a negotiated realized gain and loss sharing arrangement with the company. This share is transferred from the separate account to the companys general account and is recognized as revenue or expense. In the event that the asset value of contract holders accounts is projected below the value guaranteed by the company, a liability is established through a charge to the companys earnings. In the companys most significant separate account written in 1999, realized gains and losses are retained in the separate account and are deferred and amortized to the contract holder over a five year period, subject to certain limitations. Upon termination or maturity of this separate account contract, any unamortized deferred gains and or losses will revert to the general account. In the event this separate account holder were to exchange the contract for the policy of another carrier, there would be a surrender charge equal to 10 percent of the contracts account value during the first five years. Beginning in year six, the surrender charge decreases 2 percent a year to 0 percent in year 11. At December 31, 2004, net unamortized realized losses amounted to $1 million. In accordance with this separate account agreement, the investment assets must meet certain criteria established by the regulatory authorities to whose jurisdiction the group contract holder is subject. Therefore, sales of investments may be mandated to maintain compliance with these regulations, possibly requiring gains or losses to be recorded, and charged to the general account. Potentially, losses could be material; however, unrealized losses at December 31, 2004, in the separate account portfolio were less than $1 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements. Management has determined that recent accounting pronouncements have not had nor are they expected to have any material impact on the companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123(R), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25. Among other items, SFAS No. 123(R) eliminates the use of APB Opinion No. 25 and the intrinsic value method of accounting and requires companies to recognize the cost of associate services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the financial statements. The effective date of SFAS No. 123(R) is the first reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005, which is the third quarter of 2005 for the company, although early adoption is allowed. 2004 10 K Page 29 Table of Contents SFAS No. 123(R) permits companies to adopt its requirements using either a modified prospective or a modified retrospective method. Under the modified prospective method, the compensation cost is recognized in the financial statements beginning with the effective date, based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123(R) for all share based payments granted after that date, and based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123 for all unvested awards granted prior to the effective date of SFAS No. 123(R). Under the modified retrospective method, the requirements are the same as under the modified prospective method, but this method also permits companies to restate financial statements of previous periods based on pro forma disclosures made is accordance with SFAS No. 123. The company currently utilizes a standard option pricing model (binomial option pricing model) to measure the fair value of stock options granted to associates. While SFAS No. 123(R) permits companies to continue to use such a model, the standard also permits the use of a lattice model. The company has not yet determined which model it will use to measure the fair value of associate stock options upon the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The company currently expects to adopt SFAS 123(R) effective July 1, 2005; however, the company has not yet determined which of the adoption methods it will use. Subject to a complete review of the requirements of SFAS No. 123(R), based on stock options granted to associates through January 2005, the company expects the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on July 1, 2005, will reduce both third quarter and fourth quarter 2005 net income per share by approximately 2 cents per share. In March 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ratified the consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force in Issue 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairments and Its Applications to Certain Investments (EITF 03 1). The EITF reached a consensus on an other than temporary impairment model for debt and equity securities accounted for under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and cost method investments. The basic model developed to evaluate whether an investment within the scope of Issue 03 1 is other than temporarily impaired involves a three step process including: determining whether an investment is impaired (fair value less amortized cost); evaluating whether the impairment is other than temporary; and requiring recognition of an impairment equal to the difference between the investments cost and fair value. In September 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position (FSP) No. EITF Issue 03 1 1, Effective Date of Paragraphs 10 20 of EITF Issue No. 03 01. This FSP delayed the effective date of the measurement and recognition guidance contained in paragraphs 10 20 of Issue 03 1 and, as of February 25, 2005, the FASB had not yet issued guidance on the adoption or effective date of FSP No. EITF Issue 03 1 1. The amount of any other than temporary impairment that may need to be recognized in the future will be dependent on market conditions and managements intent and ability to hold any such impaired securities. 2004 10 K Page 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations Overview Cincinnati Financial Corporation Consolidated Three year Highlights (Dollars in millions except per share data) 2004 2003 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Revenues $ 3,614 $ 3,181 $ 2,843 13.6 11.9 Net income 584 374 238 56.0 57.0 Per share data (diluted): Net income $ 3.44 $ 2.20 $ 1.39 56.4 57.5 Book value $ 37.38 $ 36.85 $ 33.00 1.4 11.7 Return on equity 9.4 % 6.3 % 4.1 % Return on equity based on comprehensive income 4.6 % 13.8 % (4.0 %) The consolidated results of operations reflect the operating results of each of the companys four segments along with parent company and other non insurance activities. The four segments are: Commercial lines property casualty insurance Personal lines property casualty insurance Life insurance Investments operations Highlights of the consolidated results for the past three years include: Revenues Revenue growth accelerated over the three year period on strong property casualty performance, continued growth in investment income and realized gains in 2004 versus realized losses in 2003 and 2002. Earned premium growth slowed over the three years as commercial lines pricing increases continued, but at a lower rate, and personal lines premium growth slowed, primarily due to lower new business levels. The companys emphasis on common stock holdings with an increasing flow of dividend payments has led to continued growth of investment income. In addition, the company allocated virtually 100 percent of new investment dollars to fixed income securities during most of 2004, adding to investment income growth. Net income Net income rose 56.0 percent in 2004 and 57.0 percent in 2003. In each of the past three years, the companys total benefits and expenses have grown less rapidly than revenues, as managements strategies to improve profitability have taken effect. Strong property casualty underwriting profit in 2004 and 2003 led to a higher effective tax rate. Book value Book value was $37.38 at year end 2004 up slightly from year end 2003 as higher net income was offset by lower unrealized investment gains. Comprehensive income Accumulated other comprehensive income, which includes the accumulated unrealized gains on investments, declined by $297 million in 2004, gained $441 million in 2003 and declined $470 million in 2002. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for additional information on the investment portfolio and see Shareholders Equity, Page 62, for information on unrealized gains and losses. Return on equity improved for the third consecutive year while return on equity based on comprehensive income was 4.6 percent in 2004 compared with 13.8 percent in 2003 and negative 4.0 percent in 2002. Other considerations When evaluating ongoing business operations, management takes the following into consideration: Realized investment gains and losses A significant factor in the growth rate of net income in any year can be realized investment gains and losses. Management believes it is important to carefully consider the impact of these gains and losses on net income when evaluating the companys primary business areas: property casualty insurance and life insurance. Management believes the level of realized investment gains and losses for any particular period, while it may be material, may obscure the performance of ongoing underlying business operations in that period. While realized investment gains and losses are integral to the companys insurance operations over the long term, the determination to recognize gains or losses in any period may be subject to managements discretion and is independent of the insurance underwriting process. Moreover, under applicable accounting requirements, gains and losses can be recognized from certain changes in market values of securities without actual realization. In the three year period, the after tax impact of realized investment gains and losses was to raise net income by $60 million, or 36 cents per share, in 2004. Realized investment gains and losses reduced net income by $27 million, or 16 cents, in 2003, and by $62 million, or 36 cents, in 2002. The company reported net realized investment gains in 2004 primarily because of the sale of equity securities. Net realized investment losses were lower in 2003 than 2002 as other than temporary impairment charges declined due to the economic and market 2004 10 K Page 31 Table of Contents recovery and as net gains on the sale of securities rose to a higher level (see Investment Results of Operations, Page 47, for additional information on net realized investment gains and losses, including the equity securities sold during 2004). Software recovery In 2003, the company recovered $23 million pretax from a settlement negotiated with a vendor. The recovery added $15 million, or 9 cents per share, to net income. The negotiated settlement related to the $39 million one time, pretax charge incurred in 2000 to write off previously capitalized software development costs. Uninsured motorist/underinsured motorist (UM/UIM) reserve release Following the Ohio Supreme Courts late 2003 decision to limit its 1999 Scott Pontzer v. Liberty Mutual decision, the company released $38 million pretax of previously established UM/UIM reserves, adding $25 million, or 15 cents per share, to net income in 2003. In 2004, the company reviewed outstanding UM/UIM claims for which litigation was pending. Those claims represented approximately $37 million in previously established case reserves. During the first quarter of 2004, the company filed motions for dismissal in various jurisdictions for specific claims and released an additional $32 million in related case reserves. The reserve releases in 2004 added $21 million, or 12 cents per share, to net income. Following the release of those reserves, the company stopped separately reporting on UM/UIM related reserve actions. See Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Page 55, for additional information regarding UM/UIM reserves. Option expense Pro forma option expense as disclosed in a Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, would have reduced earnings per share by 7 cents in both 2004 and 2003 and 8 cents in 2002. Effects of inflation Management does not believe that inflation has had a material effect on consolidated results of operations, except to the extent that inflation may affect interest rates and claim costs. Outlook Over the long term, managements objective is to achieve steady growth while performing as an industry profitability leader. Based on its outlook for the insurance and investment markets and its progress in implementing operating strategies, management has established certain performance targets for 2005: Property casualty written premium growth in the mid single digits. The companys outlook is based on comments from various agencies and production results, market intelligence from the companys field marketing representatives and account retention trends, as well as staffing of new marketing territories and plans for new agency appointments. Combined ratio for the property casualty insurance operations in the range of 91 percent, assuming catastrophe losses are a more normal 3.5 percentage points on the combined ratio. Management anticipates that the commercial lines combined ratio will be in the range of 90 percent and the personal lines combined ratio will be in the range of 95 percent, marking a return to profitability for this segment. The consolidated target also assumes that favorable loss reserve development will be in line with historical levels. Investment income growth of 5 percent to 6 percent pretax due in part to the investment of a greater percentage of available cash flow in fixed income securities during most of 2004 and the first half of 2005. Management expects the impact of these anticipated strong operating results will be tempered in 2005 by the adoption of option expensing and slightly higher interest expense on long term debt, which increased modestly with the November 2004 issue of $375 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2034. The company will adopt SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, which calls for stock option expense to be included as a component of net income, in the third quarter of 2005. Pro forma option expense as disclosed in Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, would have reduced earnings per share by 7 cents in both 2004 and 2003 and 8 cents in 2002. A series of winter storms across the Midwest and Northeast during January 2005 caused approximately $5 million in catastrophe losses for policyholders. As previously announced, management estimates that first quarter 2005 results will include an initial reserve of $22 million, net of reinsurance, for a single large loss in January that was insufficiently covered through its facultative reinsurance programs. Managements performance targets for 2005 take these events into account. Due to hurricane activity during 2004, management anticipates that there will be assessments for windpools in Florida and other states. The company has received only preliminary information on these potential assessments and at this time believes the potential impact of any assessment would be immaterial. Factors supporting managements outlook for 2005 are discussed in the Results of Operations for each of the four business segments. 2004 10 K Page 32 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations As described in Item 8, Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 89, management measures profit or loss for its property casualty and life segments based upon underwriting results. Insurance underwriting results (profit or loss) represent net earned premium less loss and loss expenses and underwriting expenses on a pretax basis. Management also measures aspects of the performance of its commercial lines and personal lines segments on a combined property casualty insurance operations basis. Underwriting results and segment pretax operating income are not a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. For the combined property casualty insurance operations as well as the commercial lines and personal lines segments, statutory accounting data and ratios are key performance indicators that are used by management to assess business trends and to make comparisons to industry results, since GAAP based industry data generally is not readily available. Statutory accounting data and ratios also are key performance indicators for The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company, the life insurance subsidiary. Investments held by the parent company and the related investment portfolios for the property casualty and life insurance subsidiaries are managed and reported as the investments segment, separate from the underwriting businesses. Net investment income and net realized investment gains and losses for the companys investment portfolios are discussed in the investments segment discussion. The following sections review results of operations for the combined property casualty insurance operations and, separately, for each of the companys four reportable segments (see Commercial Lines Results of Operations, Page 35, Personal Lines Results of Operations, Page 40, Life Insurance Results of Operations, Page 45, and Investments Results of Operations, Page 47). Property Casualty Insurance Operations Overview Three year Highlights (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 2,919 $ 2,653 $ 2,391 10.0 10.9 Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 1,605 1,700 1,658 (5.6 ) 2.6 Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 148 97 87 53.4 10.9 Commission expenses 583 507 442 15.0 14.5 Underwriting expenses 274 194 190 40.6 1.0 Policyholder dividends 11 15 6 (25.0 ) 164.0 Underwriting profit $ 298 $ 140 $ 8 113.3 1,816.5 Combined ratio: Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 55.0 % 64.1 % 69.3 % Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 5.1 3.6 3.6 Loss and loss expenses 60.1 % 67.7 % 72.9 % Commission expenses 20.0 19.1 18.5 Underwriting expenses 9.4 7.3 8.1 Policyholder dividends 0.3 0.6 0.2 Combined ratio 89.8 % 94.7 % 99.7 % Within the property casualty insurance market, the company offers both commercial and personal policies through a network of independent agencies. Highlights of the performance for the combined property casualty insurance operations included: Earned premiums Over the past three years, strong insurance industry pricing and its relationships with independent agencies have permitted the company to obtain adequate premiums on new and renewal business. The rate of increase for commercial lines earned premiums slowed over the three year period, reflecting changing market conditions, while the rate of increase for personal lines earned premium reflected higher rates offset by declining new business activity. To restore affected layers of property catastrophe reinsurance programs, the company incurred $11 million in reinsurance reinstatement premiums in 2004, reducing net earned premium growth by 0.4 percentage points. The growth in earned premium reflected the competitive characteristics discussed in Item 1, Property Casualty Insurance Operations, Page 1, including a case by case approach to new business and account renewals. While insisting on adequate premiums for covered exposures, the company continues to do business the way it always has; on the local level, focusing on each relationship separately. Commercial lines pricing remained flexible to respond to each risk in cooperation with local agents, who are in a position to know their market and their business. The company believes that this approach results in more high quality accounts over the long term, further solidifies its relationships with independent agencies and establishes a basis for continued growth. 2004 10 K Page 33 Table of Contents The company has been more aggressively identifying and measuring exposures to match coverage amounts and premiums to the risk. Where this matching is not possible, accounts are not being renewed unless there are mitigating factors. Agents tell the company they agree on the need to carefully select risks and assure pricing adequacy. They appreciate the time the companys associates invest in creating solutions for their clients while protecting profitability, whether that means working on an individual case or developing modified policy terms and conditions that preserve flexibility, choice and other sales advantages. Growth also has reflected the efforts to improve customer service through the creation of smaller marketing territories, permitting local field marketing representatives to devote more time to each independent agency. The average net earned premium per territory rose 4.7 percent in 2004 to $33 million, 7.8 percent in 2003 to $32 million and 5.0 percent to $29 million in 2002. The companys success has been built on frontline decision making. The company expects to continue to strengthen its relationships with agencies with technology that brings agencies greater efficiencies while permitting associates to spend more time with people and less with paper. Management considers statutory net written premium growth to be a key performance indicator, since it can be used to compare the companys growth to industry performance, allowing the company to evaluate the success of its strategies. The estimated industry growth rate was 4.8 percent, 9.5 percent and 14.7 percent in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The companys statutory net written premiums rose 6.5 percent in 2004. The companys 2004 statutory net written premium growth rate was reduced by 0.4 percentage points due to the reinsurance reinstatement premium. The companys statutory net written premiums on an adjusted basis rose 11.7 percent in 2003 and 14.0 percent in 2002. The companys 2003 and 2002 statutory net written premium growth rates were adjusted for the effect of a refinement adopted in 2002 of the companys estimation process for matching written premiums to policy effective dates. Underwriting results and combined ratio For the third consecutive year, combined property casualty underwriting performance improved on a year over year basis as the result of growth in premiums, in particular more adequate premium per policy, and the benefits of other underwriting efforts. The improvement in the combined ratio was largely driven by a lower loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes. Premium growth has been the most significant factor in the improvement in the loss and loss expense ratio. The 2004 ratio also benefited from higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years as well as UM/UIM reserve releases. The 2003 ratio benefited from UM/UIM reserve releases. Other factors are covered in the commercial lines and personal lines segment discussions below. The loss and loss expense ratio improvement was offset by: o Higher catastrophe loss ratio in 2004. Total catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, were $148 million for 2004 compared with $97 million in 2003 and $87 million in 2002. The catastrophe losses contributed 5.1 percentage points to the property casualty combined ratio in 2004 compared with 3.6 percentage points in 2003 and 2002. o Increase in the commission expense ratio. Commission expense rose more rapidly than premiums primarily because of the companys profit sharing commission program. Profit sharing, or contingent, commissions are calculated on the profitability of an agencys aggregate book of business, taking into account longer term profit, with a percentage for prompt payment of premiums and other criteria. In 2004, profit sharing commission expense contributed 3.5 percentage points, reflecting the substantial growth in the underwriting profit to $298 million. In 2003, profit sharing commission expense contributed 2.2 percentage points, reflecting the 2003 underwriting profit of $117 million before the software recovery. In 2002, these commissions contributed 0.9 percentage points to the combined ratio, as the company incurred a small underwriting profit. o Increase in the underwriting expense ratio. Underwriting expenses have risen more rapidly than premiums due to higher salary expense, largely due to increases in underwriting department staffing, and higher technology related costs. The software recovery reduced the 2003 underwriting expense ratio by 0.8 percentage points. On a statutory basis, the 2004 property casualty combined ratio was 89.4 percent, including a 1.1 percentage point benefit from the UM/UIM reserve release. The 2003 property casualty statutory combined ratio of 95.0 percent before the software recovery, included a 1.4 percentage point benefit from the UM/UIM reserve release, and compared with 99.6 percent in 2002, before the effect of Codification. The industry average statutory combined ratios are estimated at 97.6 percent, 100.1 percent and 107.4 percent for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The favorable comparison of this key performance indicator to industry trends highlights the success of the companys strategies. The discussion of the commercial lines and personal lines segments provides additional detail regarding these strategies and trends. 2004 10 K Page 34 Table of Contents Commercial Lines Results of Operations Overview Three year Highlights Performance highlights for the commercial lines segment include: Earned premiums The primary source of growth in the past three years has been higher pricing on new and renewal commercial business and insurance to value initiatives, more than offsetting the companys deliberate decisions not to write or renew certain business and the loss of some smaller accounts due to competition. The reinsurance reinstatement premiums allocated to commercial lines reduced net earned premium growth for 2004 by 0.3 percentage points. During this three year period, the company has experienced little growth in overall commercial lines policy counts. This has reflected the companys re underwriting of the existing book of business and its insistence on obtaining adequate premium for the covered risks. Profitability Since 2002, improvement in commercial lines profitability has primarily been driven by more adequate premiums per policy as well as underwriting actions taken. Results for 2004 also benefited from higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years, including the benefit of the UM/UIM reserve release, which reduced the ratio by 1.5 percentage points (see Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Commercial Lines Segment Reserves, Page 56, for information regarding loss reserve development for the commercial lines segment). The 2003 combined ratio included the benefits of the UM/UIM reserve release and the software recovery, which reduced the ratio by 2.0 percentage points and 0.8 percentage points, respectively. Growth In the seven states in which the company had at least $100 million in commercial lines agency direct earned premiums in 2004, premiums were $1.320 billion in 2004. In these states, premiums grew 10.0 percent in 2004. In the remaining 24 states, agency direct earned premiums were $905 million in 2004. In these states, premiums rose 15.2 percent in 2004. The stronger growth rate in the smaller states reflected the opportunities available to the company in less penetrated markets. Management considers new business measures to be a key indicator of the success of its competitive strategies. Locally based field marketing representatives lead the new business effort, working with agencies to underwrite and price business using personal and direct knowledge of the risk and competitive environment. In 2004, commercial lines new business premiums written directly by agencies rose 5.2 percent to a record $282 million due to strong new business trends in the first half of the year. In 2003, commercial new business premiums rose 6.8 percent to $268 million. In 2002, new business premiums rose 14.4 percent to $251 million. The lower 2004 and 2003 growth rates reflected the companys pricing discipline. The growth rate in 2004 also reflected the slowing of premium increases industrywide. Commercial Lines Results 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 2,126 $ 1,908 $ 1,721 11.4 10.8 Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 1,083 1,176 1,170 (7.9 ) 0.5 Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 71 42 40 68.9 6.6 Commission expenses 423 361 315 17.1 14.6 Underwriting expenses 200 147 131 36.8 10.3 Policyholder dividends 11 15 6 (25.0 ) 164.0 Underwriting profit $ 338 $ 167 $ 59 102.3 184.5 Combined ratio: Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 50.9 % 61.6 % 68.0 % Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 3.4 2.2 2.3 Loss and loss expenses 54.3 % 63.8 % 70.3 % Commission expenses 19.9 18.9 18.3 Underwriting expenses 9.4 7.7 7.7 Policyholder dividends 0.5 0.8 0.3 Combined ratio 84.1 % 91.2 % 96.6 % Profitability In addition to seeking more adequate premium per exposure over the past three years, the company has focused on longer term efforts to enhance profitability. These have included identifying the exposures the company has for each risk and making sure it offers appropriate coverages, terms and conditions and limits of insurance. The company continues to develop new underwriting guidelines, to re underwrite books of business with selected agencies and to update policy terms and conditions, where necessary. In addition, the company continues to leverage its strong local presence. Field marketing representatives have met with every agency to reaffirm agreements on the extent of frontline 2004 10 K Page 35 Table of Contents renewal underwriting to be performed by local agencies. Loss control, machinery and equipment and field claims representatives have been conducting on site inspections. Field claims representatives prepare full risk reports on every account reporting a loss above $100,000 or on any risk of concern. Multi departmental task forces have implemented programs to address concerns for specific areas such as contractor and commercial auto risks. These actions have helped to address rising loss severity. The significant components of expenses for the commercial lines segment are described below. Loss and Loss Expenses (excluding catastrophe losses) Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve additions for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. As a result of the underwriting actions noted above, which have led to higher premiums on a relatively stable level of exposure, loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes declined over the three year period. A primary reason for the improvement in the ratio between 2004 and 2003 was higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years (see Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Commercial Lines Segment Reserves, Page 56, for information regarding loss reserve development for the commercial lines segment). The favorable development was largely due to the claims departments initiative, begun in 2001, to establish higher initial case reserves on liability claims in the period when the claim is reported. UM/UIM reserve releases contributed 1.5 percentage points to the loss and loss expense ratio in 2004 and 2.0 percentage points in 2003. Management monitors incurred losses by size of loss, business line, risk category, geographic region, agency, field marketing territory and duration of policyholder relationship, addressing concentrations or trends as needed. Analysis indicated no significant concentrations beyond that seen in higher loss ratios for certain business lines, which management believes it has addressed. Management also measures new losses and case reserve adjustments greater than $250,000 to track frequency and severity. New losses greater than $1 million, new losses between $250,000 and $1 million and case reserve increases greater than $250,000, declined as a percentage of earned premiums in each of the past three years. Commercial Lines Losses by Size 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Losses $1 million or more $ 80 $ 89 $ 90 (9.5 ) (0.9 ) Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 103 117 123 (11.9 ) (4.9 ) Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 133 121 121 9.9 (0.4 ) Other losses 536 608 622 (11.8 ) (2.3 ) Total losses incurred excluding catastrophe losses $ 852 $ 935 $ 956 (8.8 ) (2.3 ) Catastrophe losses 71 42 40 68.9 6.6 Total losses $ 923 $ 977 $ 996 (5.4 ) (1.9 ) As a percent of earned premiums: Losses $1 million or more 3.8 % 4.6 % 5.2 % Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 4.9 6.2 7.2 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 6.2 6.3 7.0 Other losses 25.2 31.9 36.1 Loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses 40.1 % 49.0 % 55.5 % Catastrophe loss ratio 3.3 2.2 2.3 Total loss ratio 43.4 % 51.2 % 57.8 % 2004 10 K Page 36 Table of Contents Catastrophe Loss and Loss Expenses Commercial lines catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and before taxes, were $71 million in 2004 compared with $42 million in 2003 and $40 million in 2002. The following table shows losses incurred, net of reinsurance, and subsequent development, for catastrophe losses in each of the past three years. (Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Incurred in calendar year ended December 31, Occurance year Cause of loss Region 2004 2003 2002 2004 May Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic $ 1 May Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic 11 July Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic 7 August Hurricane Charley South 16 September Hurricane Frances South 4 September Hurricane Jeanne South, Mid Atlantic 4 September Hurrican Ivan South, Midwest, Mid Atlantic 21 December Wind, ice snow, freezing Midwest 5 Others 3 Total 72 2003 April Wind, hail Midwest (2 ) $ 5 May Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 17 July Wind, hail Midwest 2 2 July Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 6 September Wind Mid Atlantic 0 5 November Wind Midwest, Mid Atlantic (1 ) 5 Others 0 (1 ) Total (1 ) 39 2002 March Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 $ 5 April Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 2 April Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 0 16 June Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 3 September Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 6 November Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 1 5 Others 0 2 3 Total 0 3 40 Calendar year total $ 71 $ 42 $ 40 Commission Expenses Commission expense as a percent of earned premium rose by 1.0 percentage points in 2004 and 0.6 percentage points in 2003 as contingent (profit based) commissions increased because of strong recent results. The company relies on its independent agencies as frontline underwriters who know the businesses and individuals in their communities. Underwriting Expenses Non commission expenses rose to 9.4 percent of earned premium in 2004 from 7.7 percent in 2003 and 2002. The increase in 2004 reflected higher salary expense and technology related costs partially offset by continued refinements in the companys cost allocation processes between commercial lines and personal lines. In 2003 the ratio of underwriting expenses to earned premiums was reduced by 0.8 percentage points due to the software recovery. Policyholder Dividends Policyholder dividend expense was 0.5 percent of earned premium in 2004 compared with 0.8 percent in 2003 and 0.3 percent in 2002. 2004 10 K Page 37 Table of Contents Line of Business Analysis (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2003 2002 Calendar year 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Commercial multi peril: Earned premium $ 751 $ 673 $ 607 11.6 10.9 Loss and loss expenses incurred 469 442 422 6.1 4.7 Loss and loss expenses ratio 62.4 % 65.6 % 69.5 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 54.9 59.9 63.5 Workers compensation: Earned premium $ 313 $ 293 $ 294 6.8 (0.5 ) Loss and loss expenses incurred 251 235 235 6.6 0.1 Loss and loss expenses ratio 80.3 % 80.5 % 80.0 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 80.3 80.5 80.0 Commercial auto: Earned premium $ 450 $ 419 $ 383 7.4 9.3 Loss and loss expenses incurred 236 240 259 (1.8 ) (7.2 ) Loss and loss expenses ratio 52.4 % 57.3 % 67.5 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 52.1 56.5 66.7 Other liability: Earned premium $ 402 $ 342 $ 276 17.6 24.1 Loss and loss expenses incurred 116 183 214 (36.8 ) (14.5 ) Loss and loss expenses ratio 28.8 % 53.6 % 77.8 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 28.8 53.6 77.8 Accident year 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Loss and loss expenses incurred: Commercial multi peril $ 465 $ 434 $ 417 $ 411 $ 398 Workers compensation 236 218 228 227 202 Commercial auto 283 266 252 243 241 Other liability 247 225 162 124 130 Loss and loss expenses incurred ratio: Commercial multi peril 61.9 % 64.4 % 68.7 % 76.7 % 85.9 % Workers compensation 75.4 74.3 77.5 90.0 97.1 Commercial auto 62.9 63.5 65.8 76.0 90.9 Other liability 61.3 65.9 58.8 57.4 63.3 In total the commercial multi peril, workers compensation, commercial auto and other liability lines of business accounted for 90.1 percent of total commercial lines earned premium compared with 90.5 percent in 2003 and 90.5 percent in 2002. Approximately 95 percent of the companys commercial lines premiums are written as packages, providing accounts with coverages from more than one business line. The company believes that its commercial lines area is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. For reference, however, the table above and discussion below summarizes growth and profitability trends separately for each of the four primary business lines. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of accident year incurred loss and loss expenses for the past five years. Accident year data shows the year in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid. Over the past three years, results for the business lines within the commercial lines segment have reflected the companys emphasis on underwriting and obtaining adequate pricing for the covered risk, as discussed above. Additional detail regarding reserve development is provided in Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Commercial Lines Segment Reserves, Page 56. Commercial Multi peril The company wrote a higher than normal number of one year policies in 2002 pending regulatory approval for changes in policy terms and conditions (see Item 1, Commercial Lines Segment, Page 9, for a discussion of one and three year policies). In addition to industrywide slowing in premium growth, this decision decelerated the 2003 growth rate for the companys commercial multi peril business line as some liability coverages previously written in premium discounted packages were moved to non discounted policies in 2003. Many non discounted policies are included in the companys other liability line of business. The loss and loss expense ratio declined steadily over the three year period. Commercial multi peril is the companys single largest business line, and management believes this business lines loss data are the best indicators of the success of the growth and underwriting actions that have been implemented in the past three years. The 2004 calendar year ratio improved even though catastrophe losses were slightly higher than 2003 and $4 million in 2004 10 K Page 38 Table of Contents liability reserve strengthening in 2004 offset the improvement by 0.6 percentage points. Higher general liability base rates were effective in most states during 2003. This contributed to further improvement in the loss and loss expense ratio in 2004 and 2003. Reserve strengthening increased the ratio by 2.0 percentage points in 2003 and 1.0 percentage points in 2002. Workers Compensation Conditions within the workers compensation market remained stable in 2004 after improving between 1999 and 2003 as market pricing rose in most states, albeit offset by continued rising trends in loss severity. As indicated by the rapid rise in premium volume of state pools for workers compensation, many carriers chose to exit significant portions of this line of business. While the company remains highly selective about the risks covered, workers compensation is available as part of package policies for commercial lines policyholders, maintaining the companys competitive position in selected states. Workers compensation has a lower commission ratio and higher breakeven point than the other commercial business lines. Growth in 2004 was primarily due to higher rates. In 2003 and 2002 the company chose not to renew selected policies where it believed the aggregate terrorism exposure risk was excessive. Any new or renewal policy covering 200 or more employees at any one location received added scrutiny as the company sought to manage risk aggregation. On the basis of new business premiums written directly by agents, new workers compensation premiums increased 18.8 percent in 2004 and 5.9 percent in 2003 after declining 17.4 percent in 2002. Total workers compensation earned premiums were unchanged between 2003 and 2002 as rate increases offset a decline in policy count due to the re underwriting effort. The workers compensation loss and loss expense ratio has been steady for three years. Overall pricing increases for new and renewed risks and underwriting actions have helped stabilize the accident year loss ratio in the mid 70 percent range for the most recent three years compared with the higher level of 2000 and 2001. The loss and loss expense ratio reflected $16 million in reserve strengthening in 2004, primarily due to medical cost trends, $13 million in 2003 and $9 million in 2002. Commercial Auto Commercial auto premium growth trends reflected the factors influencing overall commercial lines performance, with the primary driver being price increases. Commercial auto, one of the commercial lines coverage areas for which the company prices coverage on an annual basis, frequently is one of the first lines to experience pricing pressure because it often represents the largest portion of insurance costs for commercial policyholders. In the past several years, the company accelerated efforts to improve commercial auto underwriting and rate levels, making certain that vehicle use was properly classified. As a result of those actions and moderating industry wide severity and frequency trends, the loss and loss expense ratio for commercial auto improved in each of the past three years. Further, new and revised underwriting guidelines are being used to assure accurate classification and pricing. The UM/UIM reserve releases had their most substantial impact on the commercial auto line, lowering the 2004 loss and loss expense ratio by 4.6 percentage points and the 2003 loss and loss expense ratio by 6.9 percentage points. Including the UM/UIM reserve releases in 2004 and 2003, the 2004 ratio benefited 10.5 percentage points from higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years, the 2003 ratio benefited by 8.8 percentage points and the 2002 ratio benefited by 4.0 percentage points. Other Liability Earned premium growth for the other liability line (commercial umbrella, commercial general liability and most executive risk policies) continued at a higher pace in 2004 because of the number of policies written in non discounted programs and the continuing rise in liability pricing. The other liability policy count has been stable as growth in the number of non discounted policies has offset declines in other areas, in part due to a change that allowed umbrella coverages to be endorsed to a primary policy rather than be written separately. Director and officer coverage accounted for approximately 13 percent of other liability premium in 2004 and approximately 12 percent in 2003. Director and officer policies are offered primarily to non profit organizations, reducing the risk associated with this line of business. As of December 31, 2004, only four in force director and officer policies were for Fortune 500 companies. Forty two were for publicly traded companies (excluding banks and savings and loans) and 70 were for banks and savings and loans with more than $500 million in assets. In large part because this business line includes umbrella coverages, the calendar year loss and loss expense ratio tends to fluctuate dramatically on a year over year basis. The improvement in the 2004 calendar year loss and loss expense ratio was driven by 2000 through 2003 accident year loss and loss expense ratios 6.5 to 14.7 percentage points below their year ago levels. The 2004 ratio benefited by 32.5 percentage points due to higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years, including 2.0 percentage points from UM/UIM reserve releases. The 2003 ratio benefited by 23.0 percentage points due to favorable development, including 2.6 percentage points due to UM/UIM reserve releases. The 2002 ratio benefited by 8.8 percentage points from favorable development. 2004 10 K Page 39 Table of Contents Commercial Lines Outlook Industry experts currently anticipate industry wide commercial lines written premiums will decline approximately 1 percent in 2005. The company anticipates commercial lines insurance market trends will reflect accelerated competition in 2005 with pressure on pricing from the industrys increasing surplus and improving profitability. During the second half of 2004, agents indicated that renewal price increases were running in the low single digits, with variations by geographic region, class of business and size of account. Aggressive pricing is occurring more frequently for higher quality and for larger accounts although disciplined underwriting appears to be the norm. The company will continue to market its products to a broad range of business classes, price its products adequately and take a package approach. The company intends to maintain its underwriting selectively and to manage carefully its rate levels as well as maintain its programs that seek to accurately match exposures with appropriate premium. The creation of new marketing territories and appointment of new agencies over the next several years also could contribute to commercial lines growth. As a result of these factors, management presently anticipates 2005 commercial lines written premium growth in the mid single digits compared with 7.6 percent in 2004. The company believes it can continue to be a preferred market for its agencies and the types of Main Street businesses they serve by evaluating each risk individually and making decisions regarding rates, the use of three year policies and other policy terms on a case by case basis, even in lines and classes of business that are under competitive pressure. This should allow the company to maintain the positive underlying improvements in profitability that have occurred over the past several years, but management does not believe favorable reserve development will contribute as much in 2005 as it did in 2004. As a result, management currently is estimating a 2005 commercial lines combined ratio in the range of 90 percent compared with 84.1 percent in 2004. Personal Lines Results of Operations Overview Three year Highlights Performance highlights for the personal lines segment include: Earned premiums The primary source of growth in the past three years was rate increases to address premium inadequacy. Rate increases on new and renewal business have offset a decline in policy count in each year. The reinsurance reinstatement premiums allocated to personal lines reduced net earned premium growth for 2004 by 0.8 percentage points. Combined ratio Over the past three years, the combined ratio has reflected an improving loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses. In 2004, the improvement in the loss and loss expense ratio was offset by higher catastrophe losses and rising commission and underwriting expenses over the entire period. In 2003, the improvement also reflected a 2.4 percentage point decline in the underwriting expense ratio, of which 1.1 percentage points were due to the software cost recovery. Growth Personal lines is an important component of the companys overall relationship with many of its agencies and an important component of agency relationships with their clients. In the seven states in which the company wrote $35 million or more in personal lines agency direct earned premiums in 2004, premiums were $621 million in 2004. In these states, premiums grew 6.4 percent in 2004. In the 15 states with less than $35 million in premiums in 2004, agency direct earned premiums grew more rapidly, rising 10.7 percent in 2004 to $194 million. Similar to commercial lines, the stronger growth in the smaller states reflected the opportunities available to the company in less penetrated markets. Personal lines new business premiums written directly by agencies declined 19.9 percent to $48 million in 2004 and 9.3 percent to $60 million in 2003 from a 2002 high of $67 million. The decline in new business in 2004 and 2003 reflected the companys emphasis on underwriting personal lines and factors specific to the personal auto and homeowner business lines, as discussed below. In addition, agencies may be placing less new business with the company until the introduction of Diamond, the new personal lines policy processing system, in their state. Further, the company now understands that the agency learning curve for Diamond may be steeper than anticipated, potentially reducing agency attention to new business efforts in the initial months after the system is introduced in their state. 2004 10 K Page 40 Table of Contents Personal Lines Results 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 793 $ 745 $ 670 6.4 11.2 Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 522 524 488 (0.4 ) 7.7 Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 77 55 47 41.4 14.5 Commission expenses 160 146 127 9.7 14.3 Underwriting expenses 74 47 59 52.1 (19.4 ) Underwriting loss $ (40 ) $ (27 ) $ (51 ) 45.8 (47.1 ) Combined ratio: Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 65.9 % 70.3 % 72.6 % Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 9.7 7.3 7.1 Loss and loss expenses 75.6 % 77.6 % 79.7 % Commission expenses 20.1 19.5 19.0 Underwriting expenses 9.3 6.5 8.9 Policyholder dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 Combined ratio 105.0 % 103.6 % 107.6 % Profitability Efforts to improve personal lines profitability have focused on the personal auto and homeowner business lines as discussed below. The significant components of expenses for the personal lines segment are described below. Loss and Loss Expenses (excluding catastrophe losses) Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve additions for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. For personal lines, loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes were $522 million in 2004 compared with $524 million in 2003 and $487 million in 2002. Loss and loss expenses for personal lines have reflected the industrywide rise in loss severity over the past several years due to escalating medical costs and home values offset by the benefits of underwriting actions and changes in policy terms and conditions. In addition, the loss and loss expense ratio benefited from higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years (see Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Personal Lines Segment Reserves, Page 58, for information regarding loss reserve development for the personal lines segment). Management monitors incurred losses by size of loss, business line, risk category, geographic region, agency, field marketing territory and duration of policyholder relationship, addressing concentrations or trends as needed. Analysis indicated no significant concentrations beyond that seen in higher loss ratios for certain business lines, which management believes it has addressed. Management also measures new losses and case reserve adjustments greater than $250,000 to track frequency and severity. For personal lines, losses greater than $1 million and losses between $250,000 and $1 million have stabilized as a percentage of earned premiums. Case reserve increases greater than $250,000 rose as a percentage of earned premiums in 2004 after declining in 2003. Management remains focused on establishing adequate case reserves at the time a claim is reported. Personal Lines Losses by Size 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Losses $1 million or more $ 17 $ 15 $ 15 14.6 1.4 Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 43 41 35 4.9 15.8 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 21 11 20 83.7 (43.5 ) Other losses 371 391 359 (5.2 ) 9.0 Total losses incurred excluding catastrophe losses $ 452 $ 458 $ 429 (1.4 ) 6.9 Catastrophe losses 77 55 47 41.4 14.6 Total losses $ 529 $ 513 $ 476 3.1 7.7 As a percent of earned premiums: Losses $1 million or more 2.2 % 2.0 % 2.2 % Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 5.4 5.5 5.2 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 2.6 1.5 3.0 Other losses 46.8 52.5 53.5 Loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses 57.0 % 61.5 % 63.9 % Catastrophe loss ratio 9.7 7.3 7.1 Total loss ratio 66.7 % 68.8 % 71.0 % 2004 10 K Page 41 Table of Contents Catastrophe Loss and Loss Expenses Personal lines catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and before taxes, were $77 million in 2004 compared with $55 million in 2003 and $47 million in 2002. The following table shows losses incurred, net of reinsurance, and subsequent development, for catastrophe losses in each of the past three years. (Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Incurred in calendar year ended December 31, Occurance year Cause of loss Region 2004 2003 2002 2004 May Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic $ 9 May Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic 20 July Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic 5 August Hurricane Charley South 10 September Hurricane Frances South 7 September Hurricane Jeanne South, Mid Atlantic 2 September Hurrican Ivan South, Midwest, Mid Atlantic 18 December Wind, ice snow, freezing Midwest 8 Others 2 Total 81 2003 April Wind, hail Midwest (2 ) $ 31 May Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 17 July Wind, hail Midwest (1 ) 5 July Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 1 September Wind Mid Atlantic (1 ) 4 November Wind Midwest, Mid Atlantic 0 2 Others 0 2 Total (4 ) 62 2002 and prior March Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 $ 6 April Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 4 April Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 0 11 June Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 2 September Wind, hail Midwest 0 (1 ) 2 November Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 (1 ) 11 Others 0 (5 ) 11 Total 0 (7 ) 47 Calendar year total $ 77 $ 55 $ 47 Commission Expenses Commission expense as a percent of earned premium rose by 0.6 percentage points in 2004 and 0.5 percentage points in 2003 as total contingent (profit based) commissions rose. Underwriting Expenses Over the three year period, non commission expenses fluctuated as a percent of earned premiums, but rose to a three year high of 9.3 percent in 2004 due to higher salary expense and high technology related costs. In 2003 the ratio of underwriting expenses to earned premiums was reduced by 1.1 percentage points due to the software recovery. The fluctuation in the expense ratio was partially due to continued refinements in the companys cost allocation processes between commercial lines and personal lines. 2004 10 K Page 42 Table of Contents Line of Business Analysis (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2003 2002 Calendar year 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Personal auto: Earned premium $ 451 $ 428 $ 389 5.4 9.8 Loss and loss expenses incurred 298 304 263 (2.1 ) 15.5 Loss and loss expenses ratio 66.1 % 71.1 % 67.6 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 65.1 70.1 66.7 Homeowner: Earned premium $ 259 $ 239 $ 210 8.2 14.0 Loss and loss expenses incurred 249 222 207 12.2 7.1 Loss and loss expenses ratio 96.1 % 92.7 % 98.6 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 69.3 72.8 78.3 Accident year 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Loss and loss expenses incurred: Personal auto $ 297 $ 304 $ 291 $ 263 $ 258 Homeowner 254 229 207 194 176 Loss and loss expenses incurred ratio: Personal auto 65.9 % 71.2 % 74.8 % 72.8 % 74.1 % Homeowner 98.3 95.8 98.8 101.8 98.0 The personal auto and homeowner business lines together accounted for 89.5 percent, 89.5 percent and 89.4 percent of total personal lines earned premiums in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The companys intent is to write personal auto and homeowners coverages in personal lines packages. As a result, management believes that personal lines is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. For reference, however, the table above and discussion below summarizes growth and profitability trends for the personal auto and homeowner business lines. Information regarding reserve development is provided in Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Personal Lines Segment Reserves, Page 58. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of accident year incurred loss and loss expenses for the past five years. Accident year data shows the year in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid. Personal Auto Earned premiums for personal auto grew 5.4 percent, 9.8 percent and 7.9 percent in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The growth was driven by the effect of rate increases beginning in late 2002. During 2004, rate increases in the range of 1.6 percent to 10.0 percent became effective in 21 states. Once rate changes become effective, they are applied to new business and to existing policies as they come up for renewal. Management believes the companys personal auto rates generally remain competitive. Over the last three years, the benefits of personal auto re underwriting programs and higher pricing have generally served to offset rising loss severity. For selected agencies, the programs reviewed and strengthened underwriting standards, required motor vehicle reports for many insured drivers and developed strategies to increase the companys penetration of the agencys personal lines business. The loss and loss expense ratio for personal auto improved to 66.1 percent in 2004 from 71.1 percent in 2003 and 67.6 percent in 2002. The 2002 ratio included a 5.0 percentage point benefit from the salvage and subrogation reserve. Homeowner Earned premiums for homeowners grew 8.2 percent, 14.0 percent and 10.0 percent in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily because of rate increases that began to take effect in 2002. The loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses for the homeowner line declined to 69.3 percent in 2004 from 72.8 percent in 2003 and 78.3 percent in 2002 due to the companys program to improve homeowner profitability. Catastrophe losses contributed 26.8 percentage points, 19.9 percentage points and 20.3 percentage points to the homeowner loss and loss expense ratio in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Management continues to seek to improve homeowner results so that this line achieves profitability in 2006. For this measurement, management is presuming commission and underwriting expenses would contribute approximately 29 percentage points to a homeowner combined ratio. The target also assumes that premium growth will lead to catastrophe losses as a percent of homeowner earned premium in the range of 17 percent. However, over the past three years, catastrophe losses have been approximately 22 percent on the same basis. In mid 2004, the company began modifying its policy terms to change homeowner policy earthquake deductibles to 10 percent from 5 percent in selected Midwestern states, reducing the companys exposure to a single significant 2004 10 K Page 43 Table of Contents catastrophic event. See Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, for discussion of the companys strategy to support the financial strength ratings of its property casualty insurance operations. The three most significant actions taken since 2003 to improve profitability for the homeowner line are summarized below. Management believes that the homeowner line will be profitable in 2006. However, it will take into 2007 for the full benefit of these actions to be reflected in homeowner results. Rate changes In 2004, rate increases in the range of 3.0 percent to 25.8 percent became effective in 22 states. In four of the companys six largest homeowner states, 2004 increases were in the 8 percent to 18 percent range. Once rate changes become effective, they are applied to new business and to existing policies as they come up for renewal. In 2003, 23 rate increases were effective in 21 of the 25 states in which the company writes homeowners policies. Changes in policy terms and conditions The company has identified specific coverages for updating to increase its control over risk and pricing, including capping replacement cost coverage for most policies and changing the water damage coverages. These changes began to go into effect over the past 24 months as policies have renewed and new business has been written. By the end of 2005, virtually all of the companys homeowner policies will have the new terms and conditions. Shift to one year policies In conjunction with the deployment of Diamond, the personal lines policy processing system, the company has begun to write homeowner policies on a one year term instead of a three year term. One year policies allow the company to modify rates, terms and conditions more promptly, when necessary. The company has moved to one year homeowner policies in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin. The company plans for homeowner policies written in other states to shift to a one year term in advance of the Diamond deployment for each specific state. At the end of 2004, management estimates that approximately 27 percent of homeowner policies now have been written on a one year term. The benefits of changes in rates and policy terms and conditions has been deferred because the company traditionally has written homeowner business on a three year policy term and approximately one third of policies come up for renewal each year. For example, in Ohio, which accounted for 32.0 percent of the companys 2004 total homeowner earned premiums, typical 2005 homeowner renewal policies are experiencing approximately a 40 percent increase in total premium. The increase demonstrates the cumulative effect of rate changes, insured value and policy changes that were effected by the company over the policyholders most recent three year term. Personal Lines Outlook In the personal lines marketplace, the company believes agents select Cincinnati for their value oriented clients who seek to balance value and price and are attracted by Cincinnatis superior claims service and the benefits of the companys package approach. However, management is maintaining modest expectations for the personal lines area and anticipates mid single digit written premium growth in 2005. Industry experts currently anticipate industry wide personal lines written premiums will rise approximately 4.5 percent in 2005. Six factors are contributing to managements growth expectations: Timing The company implemented homeowner rate increases in its larger states in late 2003 and early 2004. As a result, the impact of these rate changes will accumulate into 2007, because approximately one third of the three year policies written before late 2003 come up for renewal each year. Rate levels The company continues to work with its agents to refine the current rate structure to bring homeowner profitability in line with personal auto results and establish prices that attract agencies quality accounts. Management believes homeowner rate increases instituted in the past 24 months generally established pricing above the mid point of market rates. As a result, current rates in some areas may be at a level that diminishes a differentiating factor for more price sensitive consumers. In addition, the rate of increase for policies renewing for the first time in three years can be significant, as discussed above, even if the result is a competitive price. In a number of its field territories, management believes rates may be too high and it continues to evaluate independent agent market intelligence for potential refinements to the rate structure. Policy characteristics In keeping with industry practices and as noted above, the companys homeowner policies now include specific charges for optional coverages previously included at no charge, such as water damage coverage. This change can be an advantage for policyholders because it allows them to select the amount of coverage to meet their needs. However, this change also may have diminished a differentiating factor for the companys products in the marketplace. Underwriting Personal lines underwriters are focusing on insurance to value initiatives to verify that policyholders are buying the correct level of coverage for the value of the insured risk. In addition, the company is carefully maintaining its underwriting standards to help achieve the return to profitability. Diamond introduction The transition to the Diamond system of agencies writing in total almost 60 percent of personal lines volume is a significant accomplishment. However, the company now understands that the agency 2004 10 K Page 44 Table of Contents learning curve for Diamond may be steeper than anticipated, potentially reducing agency attention to new business efforts. Longer term, management believes this program could have a substantial positive benefit on premium growth as the technology presents solutions sought by independent agencies. Management believes the new system will ultimately make it easier for agents to place personal auto, homeowners and other personal lines business with the company, while greatly increasing policy issuance and policy renewal efficiency and providing direct bill capabilities. Agents using Diamond chose direct bill for 39 percent of the policies and headquarters policy printing for 72 percent of the policies in 2004, options that generally were not available on the companys previous system. New agencies The appointment of new agencies over the next several years also should contribute to personal lines growth. These factors may affect the personal lines growth rate, however, management believes that they will allow the company to improve the profitability of its homeowner line of business while maintaining personal auto profitability. While primarily focusing on longer term targets for the homeowner line because of the existing base of three year policies, management believes the overall personal lines combined ratio will be in the range of 95 percent for 2005 as the company continues to work through the renewal policy cycle and assuming catastrophe losses within normal parameters. Life Insurance Results of Operations Overview Three year Highlights Performance highlights for the life insurance segment include: Revenues Revenue growth has accelerated over the past three years as the company increased life policy face amounts in force to $44.921 billion at year end 2004 from $38.492 billion at year end 2003 and $32.486 billion at year end 2002. Profitability The life insurance segment reports a small GAAP based segment profit because investment income is included in investment segment results, except investment income credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). Results improved in 2004 and 2003 because operating expenses remained level and mortality experience remained within pricing guidelines as premiums continued to rise. At the same time, management recognizes that assets under management, capital appreciation and investment income are integral to evaluation of the success of the life insurance segment because of the long duration of life products. For that reason, management also evaluates GAAP data including results for investment activities on life insurance related assets for The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company subsidiary, which comprises the life insurance segment. Looking at a key performance indicator for Cincinnati Life, GAAP net income grew 74.1 percent in 2004 to $38 million compared with 25.8 percent in 2003 to $22 million. The life insurance portfolio had pretax realized investment gains of $9 million in 2004 compared with $10 million and $11 million of pretax realized investment losses in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Growth Cincinnati Life offers whole, term and universal life products, fixed annuities and disability income products. Revenues in 2004 were derived principally from: Premiums from traditional products, principally term insurance, which contributed 71.7 percent Fee income from interest sensitive products, principally universal life insurance, which contributed 25.4 percent Separate account investment management fee income, which contributed 2.9 percent The companys life insurance subsidiary reported 2004 statutory written life premium of $118 million, which included the sale of two general account BOLI policies totaling $10 million, compared with $102 million in 2003, which included no BOLI sales. Statutory written premiums have been reclassified to exclude annuity deposits not involving life contingencies, which are not recognized as written premium under statutory rules. Annuity sales were $71 million in 2004 compared with $37 million in 2003 and $85 million in 2002. The growth in 2004 annuity sales was attributable to attractive fixed rates and guaranteed income features. In 2004, the companys life insurance segment experienced a 3.5 percent rise in applications submitted and a 10.7 percent increase in face amount issued due to continued strong sales of term insurance marketed through the companys property casualty agency force. Management believes market pressures are mitigated for the life insurance company because of its association with the property casualty operations, its leverage of the property casualty agency franchise and its careful selection of independent agencies. Within this marketplace, Cincinnati Life is able to be competitive and attracts its share of business from the property casualty agencies with which the company has strong relationships. 2004 10 K Page 45 Table of Contents Over the past several years, the life insurance company has worked to introduce a portfolio of new and enhanced products, primarily under the LifeHorizons name. For example, during 2003, the company introduced a new guaranteed whole life policy and a non cancelable rider for its disability income product. In 2004, Cincinnati Life continued to enhance the LifeHorizons portfolio of products to meet changing needs of both consumers and agencies. Product development centers on mortality oriented products combined with contract guarantees. Distribution expansion into western and northeastern states is a high priority. Management has added a life field marketing representative for the western states and plans to add a representative for the northeastern states in 2005. During 2004, Cincinnati Life added a disability income product to its worksite marketing portfolio. Life Insurance Results 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 101 $ 95 $ 87 5.5 9.2 Separate account investment management fees 3 2 0 31.9 445.2 Total revenues 104 97 87 6.1 11.3 Contract holders benefits incurred 95 91 83 3.5 10.1 Investment interest credited to contract holders (46 ) (43 ) (36 ) (5.7 ) (19.0 ) Expenses incurred 53 52 52 0.2 (0.7 ) Total expenses 102 100 99 0.9 1.1 Life insurance segment profit (loss) $ 2 $ (3 ) $ (12 ) 147.5 71.8 Profitability Life segment expenses consist principally of: Insurance benefits paid and reserve increases, related to traditional life and interest sensitive products, which accounted for 64.3 percent of 2004 expenses Commissions, general and other business expenses, net of deferred acquisition costs, accounted for 35.7 percent of 2004 expenses Segment profitability depends largely on premium levels, the adequacy of product pricing, underwriting skill and operating efficiencies. Life segment results include only investment interest credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). The remaining investment income is reported in the investment segment results. The life investment portfolio is managed to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and rates credited to policyholders. Management considers the amount of assets under management and investment income for the life investment portfolio as key performance indicators for the life insurance segment. The life insurance company seeks to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to benefits paid and reserve increases by consistently achieving better than average claims experience due to skilled underwriting. Commissions paid by the life insurance operation are on par with industry averages. During the past three years, the company has invested in imaging and workflow technology. As a result, the efficiency of application processing has improved significantly. During this period, submitted applications have increased at an annualized rate of approximately 6 percent, while staff involved with the underwriting and policy issue has declined 5 percent. This has been accomplished while maintaining the companys service standards. Acquisition costs, which vary with and are primarily related to the production of new business, are deferred and recorded as an asset. The company generally limits the expenses capitalized to the lower of the expense assumptions used in pricing or the actual deferrable costs. The deferred acquisition cost is amortized into income in proportion to different measures depending on the policy type. The company regularly reviews and, as appropriate, changes (unlocks) the assumptions used to calculate deferred acquisition costs for universal life contracts. The 2004 unlocking pertained primarily to assumptions regarding asset defaults and mortality. 2004 unlocking assumptions reduced deferred acquisition cost amortization by $4 million and deferred revenue amortization by $1 million. Life Insurance Outlook As the life insurance company seeks to increase penetration of the property casualty agencies, managements objective is to increase premiums and maintain expenses. Management continues to emphasize the cross serving opportunities afforded by worksite marketing life insurance products. In 2005, management is exploring additional programs to simplify the worksite marketing sales process for independent property casualty agencies, including enrollment software. Term insurance is the companys largest life insurance product line. Changes in the marketplace during 2004 have affected the cost and availability of reinsurance for term life insurance for 2005. The company currently is researching alternative reinsurance solutions to help fund the statutory reserve strain on new term business. Management believes it will be able to structure a reinsurance program that provides the life insurance company with the ability to continue to grow in the term life insurance marketplace while appropriately managing risk, at a cost that allows the company to achieve its profit targets. 2004 10 K Page 46 Table of Contents Investments Results of Operations Overview Three year Highlights The investment segment contributes investment income and realized gains and losses to results of operations. Investments provide the companys primary source of pretax and after tax profits. Investment income Pretax investment income reached a new record of $492 million in 2004, rising 5.7 percent from the prior record in 2003. Growth in investment income over the past two years has been driven by strong cash flow for new investments, higher interest income from the growing fixed income portfolio and increased dividend income from the common stock portfolio. Realized gains and losses The company reported realized gains in 2004 compared with realized losses in 2003 and 2002. Realized losses were substantially lower in 2003 than 2002 as fewer other than temporary impairment charges were recorded due to the economic and market recovery. Investment Income The advantages of strong cash flow in the past three years have been somewhat offset by the challenge of investing in a low interest rate environment. The allocation of new investment dollars to fixed income securities during most of 2004 added to investment income growth. Overall, common stock dividends contributed 48.6 percent of pretax investment income in 2004 compared with 48.8 percent in 2003 and 46.9 percent in 2002. In 2004, 33 of the 51 common stock holdings in the portfolio raised their indicated dividend payout, as did 29 of 51 in 2003 and 28 of the 46 in 2002. The 2004 increases should add approximately $15 million to investment income on an annualized basis. Fifth Third, the companys largest equity holding, contributed 58.8 percent of the increase and 39.9 percent of total dividend income in 2004. Investment Results 2004 2003 2003 2002 (In millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Investment income: Interest $ 252 $ 235 $ 233 7.2 0.9 Dividends 239 227 209 5.0 9.1 Other 6 8 8 (23.0 ) (0.2 ) Investment expenses (5 ) (5 ) (5 ) (13.0 ) 5.9 Total net investment income 492 465 445 5.6 4.7 Investment interest credited to contract holders (46 ) (43 ) (36 ) (5.7 ) (19.0 ) Net realized investment gains and losses: Other than temporary impairment charges (6 ) (80 ) (98 ) 92.0 17.7 Realized investment gains and losses 87 30 8 189.9 299.2 Change in valuation of embedded derivatives 10 9 (4 ) 7.9 362.0 Net realized investment gains (losses) 91 (41 ) (94 ) 321.7 56.3 Investment operations income $ 537 $ 381 $ 315 40.6 21.2 Net Realized Investment Gains and Losses Over the past three years, net realized investment gains and losses have been made up of other than temporary impairment charges, realized investment gains and losses on the sale of securities and changes in the valuation of embedded derivatives within certain convertible securities. These three areas are discussed below: Other than temporary Impairment Charges In 2004, the company recorded $6 million in write downs of investments that management deemed had experienced an other than temporary decline in market value versus $80 million in 2003 and $98 million in 2002. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 27, for factors considered by management. These other than temporary impairment charges represented 0.1 percent, 0.6 percent and 0.9 percent of total invested assets at year end 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Also included in other than temporary impairments are unrealized losses of holdings that the company has identified for sale but not yet completed a transaction. Other than temporary impairment charges declined significantly in 2004 due to prior impairments in the portfolio and an improvement in the general financial climate. During the three year period, almost 90 percent of the write downs of securities that management deemed had experienced other than temporary declines in market value occurred during 2002 and the first half of 2003. During that earlier period, lingering weakness in the economy affected market values. Of the $80 million in other than temporary write downs in 2003, $69 million occurred in the first six months of the year. The write down of two airline related tax exempt municipal bonds totaling $5 million accounted for the majority of other than temporary impairment charges in 2004. The majority of the write downs in 2003 related to 31 high yield corporate bonds written down $39 million and 10 convertible securities written down $26 million. Unlike 2002, the market value declines in 2003 were related to company specific events rather than industry issues. 2004 10 K Page 47 Table of Contents The impairment of $5 million of airline related bonds in 2004 was a marked reduction from the prior two years, primarily because of the stabilization or improvement in the market value of previously impaired bonds and the disposition of airline related securities in previous years. Over the past three years, other than temporary impairments of airline related bonds as well as sales of securities reduced the companys exposure to this industry to approximately $36 million at year end 2004, down from $140 million at year end 2001. The company did not write down any utility/merchant energy/trading securities in 2004 due to a healthier credit climate and the previous disposal of securities. In 2002 and 2003, valuations throughout that industry were affected by mismanagement of trading operations and accounting irregularities regarding the booking of revenues and the valuation of trading contracts. The company did not write down any healthcare securities in 2004. The 2003 healthcare impairment charges related primarily to the sudden default by Healthsouth Corporation and subsequent fraud charges. These securities have since recovered and all coupon payments have been made. Other than temporary impairment charges from the investment portfolio by asset class (see Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for a description of the five asset classes) are summarized below: Years ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Investment grade corporate bonds: Number of securities impaired 0 1 0 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Impairment amount $ 0 $ (1 ) $ 0 New book value 0 0 0 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % High yield corporate bonds: Number of securities impaired 1 31 24 % to total owned 1 % 16 % 10 % Impairment amount $ 0 $ (39 ) $ (77 ) New book value 2 13 37 % to total owned 1 % 3 % 5 % Tax exempt municipal bonds: Number of securities impaired 2 5 2 % to total owned 0 % 1 % 0 % Impairment amount $ (5 ) $ (6 ) $ (5 ) New book value 9 3 1 % to total owned 1 % 0 % 0 % Common stocks: Number of securities impaired 1 2 0 % to total owned 2 % 4 % 0 % Impairment amount $ (1 ) $ (8 ) $ 0 New book value 0 5 0 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Convertible securities: Number of securities impaired 0 10 4 % to total owned 0 % 11 % 4 % Impairment amount $ 0 $ (26 ) $ (16 ) New book value 0 23 11 % to total owned 0 % 6 % 2 % Total: Number of securities impaired 4 49 30 % to total owned 0 % 3 % 4 % Impairment amount $ (6 ) $ (80 ) $ (98 ) New book value 11 44 49 % to total owned 0 % 1 % 1 % 2004 10 K Page 48 Table of Contents Other than temporary impairment charges from the investment portfolio by industry are summarized as follows: Years ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Airline $ (5 ) $ (18 ) $ (28 ) Utility/merchant energy/trading 0 (30 ) (14 ) Healthcare 0 (10 ) 0 Automotive 0 (1 ) (11 ) Cable 0 0 (12 ) Telecommunication 0 0 (16 ) Retail 0 0 (3 ) Other (1 ) (21 ) (14 ) Total $ (6 ) $ (80 ) $ (98 ) Realized Investment Gains and Losses In 2004, the company recorded $87 million in net realized investment gains, primarily due to the sale of equity holdings, compared with $30 million in 2003 and $8 million in 2002. The company buys and sells securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve its portfolio objectives. Although the company prefers to hold fixed income securities until maturity, a decision to sell reflects managements perception of a change in the underlying fundamentals of the security and preference to allocate those funds to investments that more closely meet the established parameters for long term stability and growth. Managements opinion that a security fundamentally no longer meets the companys investment expectations may reflect a loss of confidence in the issuers management, a change in underlying risk factors (such as political risk, regulatory risk, sector risk or credit risk), or a recovery from a previously impaired value. In 2004 and 2003, the company sold fixed income securities that it deemed to have limited upside potential. During 2004, the company sold $356 million in equity holdings as part of a program to support the financial strength ratings of its property casualty insurance operations (see Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, for discussion of this program). Holdings to be sold were selected primarily based on the investment committee and managements belief that these securities would have a lower dividend growth rate over the next several years when compared with other holdings in the portfolio. Management also considered the potential tax effect of any unrealized gains. Partial sales of holdings that were over $100 million in assets at year end 2003 contributed $311 million. As a result, the company now has 14 holdings over $100 million compared with 15 a year ago. Sales of smaller holdings that the company often uses as trading vehicles or had already targeted for sale contributed the remainder of the $356 million. The company also realized $21 million in gains from the sale of previously impaired securities. Change in the Valuation of Embedded Derivatives In 2004, the company recorded $10 million in fair value increases compared with $9 million in fair value increases in 2003 and $4 million in fair value declines in 2002 due to the application of SFAS No. 133, which requires measurement of the fluctuations in the value of the embedded derivative features in selected convertible securities. See Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, for details on the accounting for convertible security embedded options. Investments Outlook Management believes that it will achieve pretax investment income growth of 5 percent to 6 percent in 2005 as a result of the anticipated growth in dividend income, the potential rise in interest rates, strong cash flow from insurance operations and the higher than normal allocation of new cash flow to fixed income securities. While management does not forecast realized investment gains and losses, it believes that impairment charges in 2005 will be minimal. Every security in the portfolio was trading at or above 75 percent of book value at December 31, 2004. Management believes impairments should be limited to securities marked to market because they have been identified for sale, or those where issuer specific events cause sharp declines in market value with little or no warning. The companys asset impairment committee continues to monitor the investment portfolio. The company also is awaiting the Financial Accounting Standard Boards final decision regarding EITF 03 1 (see Item 8, Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, Page 79). Until that decision is announced, the company is unable to estimate the impact of adoption of the standard on its recognition of other than temporary impairment losses. The companys current asset impairment policy is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 27. The company believes that the committees ongoing reviews help to minimize the effect of changes in interest rates that may negatively change the value of the companys holdings. 2004 10 K Page 49 Table of Contents Other Other income of the insurance subsidiaries, parent company operations and non investment operations of CFC Investment Company and CinFin Capital Management Company resulted in $8 million in revenues in 2004 compared with $7 million in 2003 and $14 million in 2002. Losses before income taxes of $37 million in 2004, $38 million and $32 million recorded in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, were primarily due to interest expense from debt of the parent company. Taxes Income tax expense was $216 million in 2004 compared with $106 million in 2003 and $41 million in 2002. The effective tax rate for 2004 was 27.0 percent compared with 22.0 percent in 2003 and 14.8 percent in 2002. In addition to a rise in underwriting profits, the higher tax rate reflected the higher level of capital gains, which are taxed at a 35 percent rate, compared with capital losses in 2003. The company pursues a strategy of investing some portion of cash flow in tax advantaged fixed maturities and equity securities to minimize its overall tax liability and maximize after tax earnings. See Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 84, for detail regarding the companys effective income tax rate. 2004 10 K Page 50 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow OVERVIEW Liquidity is a measure of the companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of business obligations. The parent companys cash requirements include general operating expenses, interest payments on its long and short term debt, dividends to shareholders and common stock repurchases. The parent companys primary means of meeting its liquidity requirements are dividends and borrowings from its insurance subsidiary and investment income from its investment portfolio. The companys access to the capital markets and short term bank borrowing also provide other potential sources of liquidity. The property casualty and life insurance operations short term cash needs primarily consist of paying insurance loss and loss expenses as well as ongoing operating expenses and payments of dividends to the parent company. Historically, those needs have been met through underwriting cash flow and investment income. Although the company has never sold investments to pay claims, the sale of investments would provide an additional source of liquidity, if required. After satisfying short term cash requirements, excess cash flows from underwriting are invested in fixed income and equity securities in the insurance subsidiaries, leading to the potential for increases in future investment income and realized gains. As described in Item 1, Regulations, Page 15, and Item 8, Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 83, dividends paid to the parent company by its insurance subsidiary are restricted by Ohio regulatory requirements. Further, management intends for all insurance subsidiaries to maintain their superior financial strength ratings, which may constrain their dividend paying capacity. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, the companys insurance subsidiary declared ordinary dividends of $175 million, $50 million and $100 million, respectively, to the parent company. The subsidiary can pay up to $588 million in ordinary dividends to the parent company in 2005 without approval from the Ohio Department of Insurance. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Operating activities are conducted primarily by the property casualty and life insurance companies. Underwriting generates positive cash flows because cash from premium payments generally is received in advance of cash payments required to settle claims. The increase in the positive cash flow from operating activities generated in each of the past three years resulted from the improvement in the results of operations discussed above. The following table summarizes cash flow of the insurance subsidiary (direct method): Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2004 2003 2002 Premiums collected $ 3,055 $ 2,771 $ 2,511 Loss and loss expenses paid 1,543 1,540 1,357 Commissions and other underwriting expenses paid 881 759 713 Insurance subsidiary cash flow from underwriting 631 472 441 Investment income received 362 332 316 Insurance subsidiary operating cash flow $ 993 $ 804 $ 757 Premiums collected have risen over the past three years because of growth in written premiums. Paid losses and related loss expenses accounted for approximately 84 percent, 82 percent and 74 percent of property casualty and life insurance losses and policyholder benefits incurred in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Excess cash flows from underwriting, investment and other corporate activities are invested in fixed income and equity securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve the companys portfolio objectives. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for a discussion of the companys investment strategy, portfolio allocation and quality. Disposition of investments occurs for a number of reasons (See Item 8, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Page 75): Sales of fixed maturities investments. Although the company prefers to hold fixed income securities until maturity, a decision to sell or to reduce a holding reflects managements perception of a change in the underlying fundamentals of the security and preference to allocate those funds to investments that more closely meet the established parameters for long term stability and growth. In 2004 and 2003, sales of fixed income securities rose as the company sold securities that it deemed to have limited upside potential. 2004 10 K Page 51 Table of Contents Call or maturity of fixed maturity investments. Calls of U.S. agency paper in 2004 and 2003 were the primary reason for the increase in calls and maturities of fixed maturity investments. The company has purchased U.S. agency paper with higher coupons and shorter call protection features. Sales of equity securities investments. Sales of equity securities rose in 2004 due to the sale of $356 million in equity holdings (see Investments Results of Operations, Page 47, for a discussion of equity sales in 2004). Purchases of investments reflected the companys historical portfolio allocation strategy through the first quarter of 2004: Purchases of fixed maturities investments. Purchases of fixed income securities rose significantly in 2004 as the company allocated a higher percentage of new investment dollars to fixed income investments in the second half of the year and used proceeds from the call of U.S. agency paper to purchase new fixed income investments (see Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, and Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for discussion of the investment strategy and portfolio allocation.). Purchases of equity securities investments. Due to the allocation of a higher percentage of new investment dollars to fixed income investments, equity securities purchases in 2004 were below the level of 2003 and 2002. Management anticipates resuming equity securities investments in 2005 to help achieve its portfolio objectives. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities generally reflect parent company actions: Dividends to shareholders Over the past 10 years, the company has paid an average of 43 percent of net income as dividends, with the remaining 57 percent available to reinvest for future growth and for share repurchases. The ability of the company to continue paying cash dividends is subject to factors the board of directors may deem relevant. In February 2005, the board of directors authorized a 10.9 percent increase in the regular quarterly cash dividend to an indicated annual rate of $1.22 per share and also authorized a 5 percent stock dividend payable April 26, 2005. The board indicated that it intended to maintain the new quarterly cash dividend on the higher number of shares outstanding following the stock dividend, resulting in a 15.0 percent increase in the total indicated annual rate. In January 2004, the board of directors authorized a 10.0 percent increase in the regular quarterly cash dividend to an indicated annual rate of $1.10 per share and also authorized a 5 percent stock dividend payable June 15, 2004, maintaining the increased quarterly cash dividend on the new shares. This resulted in a 16.1 percent increase in the total indicated annual rate. In 2003, the indicated annual rate rose 10.8 percent. Common stock repurchase The Cincinnati Financial board believes that stock repurchases can help fulfill the companys commitment to enhancing shareholder value. Consequently, the companys board has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares. Common stock repurchases for treasury have continued at a steady pace over the last several years and occur when management believes that stock prices on the open market are favorable for such repurchases. At a minimum, the company would expect the repurchase to offset dilution of option exercises. In 2004, the company repurchased 1,571,800 shares at a total cost of $66 million (see Item 5, Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Page 19 for information regarding the repurchase activity). Shares repurchased under the current board authorization total 13.3 million, at a total cost to the company of $481 million. At December 31, 2004, 3.7 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. Share repurchase amounts are not adjusted for stock dividends. Senior notes On November 1, 2004, the company issued $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior notes due 2034, generating net proceeds of $368 million. The company used $183 million of the proceeds to pay off two short term lines of credit. The remaining proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and to finance the construction beginning in 2005 of an estimated $100 million office building and parking garage to be situated at the headquarters located in Fairfield. Assets Overview At December 31, 2004, the investment portfolio made up 78.5 percent of total assets compared with 80.3 percent at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2004, the remainder consisted primarily of other invested assets (0.2 percent), premium receivables (6.9 percent), reinsurance receivables (4.2 percent), deferred acquisition costs (2.5 percent) and separate accounts (3.0 percent). These percentages have remained relatively constant over the last few years. 2004 10 K Page 52 Table of Contents Total assets increased 3.9 percent, or $598 million, to $16.107 billion at year end 2004. The increase primarily reflected: $215 million increase in cash due to strong cash flow in 2004. $190 million increase in investment portfolio assets as discussed below. $59 million increase in premiums receivables and $28 million increase in deferred policy acquisition costs due to the higher premium volume. $57 million increase in reinsurance recoverables primarily due to business growth and record catastrophe losses in 2004. As discussed under Item 1, Reinsurance, Page 6, the companys working reinsurance treaties are with highly rated and financially strong reinsurers and the company has experienced no collection or aging problems with the property casualty or life reinsurance receivables. See USAIG Pool Participation, Page 54, for a discussion of that reinsurance recoverable. $14 million increase in separate accounts primarily due to market appreciation of assets held and reinvestment of income as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Separate Accounts, Page 29. Investment Portfolio The market value of the companys investment portfolio was $12.639 billion and $12.449 billion at year end 2004 and 2003, respectively. Insurance regulatory and statutory requirements designed to protect policyholders from investment risk influence the companys investment decisions on an individual insurance company basis. Cash generated from insurance operations is invested almost entirely in five classes of assets evaluated for yield and risk prior to purchase (see Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for a discussion of the five classes of assets). In 2004, the company temporarily changed the allocation of new property casualty portfolio investments to reduce the ratio of common stock to statutory surplus. The property casualty portfolio maintained that ratio below 100 percent throughout the 1990s (see Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, for additional information). The ratio of common stock to statutory surplus for the property casualty insurance group portfolio was 103.5 percent at year end 2004 compared with 114.7 percent at year end 2003. On August 26, 2004, the company announced it transferred approximately 31.8 million shares of Fifth Third common stock to The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Financial Corporations insurance subsidiary, from the parent company. This action was related to the June 28, 2004, application to the SEC seeking exemptive relief under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (see Item 1, Regulation, Page 15, for more detail regarding the holding companys status under the Investment Company Act). The transfer was authorized by Cincinnati Financials board of directors on August 13, 2004, and approved by the Ohio Department of Insurance on August 24, 2004. While the transfer raised The Cincinnati Insurance Companys surplus, the action was not a means to accelerate growth or strengthen loss reserves. Rather, it allowed the company to retain the financial flexibility that continues to support its high financial strength ratings. At December 31, 2004, statutory surplus for the property casualty insurance group was $4.191 billion compared with $2.783 billion at December 31, 2003. Management anticipates continuing the temporary allocation of nearly 100 percent of cash flow available for investment to fixed income and convertible security purchases until mid 2005. Over the longer term, the company anticipates continuing to invest in equity securities to help achieve its portfolio objectives. The companys portfolio investments are primarily in publicly traded fixed income and equity and equity linked securities, classified as available for sale in the accompanying financial statements. Valuations of all of the companys investments are based on either listed prices or data provided by FT Interactive Data, an outside resource that supplies global securities pricing. Changes in the fair value of these securities, based on the listed prices or information from FT Interactive Data, are reported on the companys balance sheet in other comprehensive income, net of tax. Fixed maturities (fixed income bonds and notes) and equity and equity linked securities (common and preferred stocks) are classified as available for sale and recorded at fair value in the financial statements. At December 31, 2004, the companys portfolio of fixed income securities had a weighted average yield to book of 5.8 percent, a weighted average maturity of 9.4 years and a weighted average modified duration to maturity of 6.9 years. At December 31, 2003, the companys portfolio of fixed income securities had a weighted average yield to book value of 6.6 percent, a weighted average maturity of 9.5 years and a weighted average modified duration to maturity of 6.7 years. The decline in the yield to book was due to lower prevailing interest rates as well as the companys focus on tax exempt municipal bonds, which have a lower gross yield. The average maturity of the fixed income portfolio declined slightly because of the companys focus on the intermediate portion of the yield curve and the purchase of approximately $100 million in short term bonds to fund estimated construction payments for the headquarters expansion. The average duration to maturity increased slightly as lower coupon levels offset shorter maturities (see Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for additional discussion of the fixed income portfolio). Modified duration can be defined as the average maturity of all bond payments, where each payment is weighted by its value. In the fixed income 2004 10 K Page 53 Table of Contents market, duration is used to measure the sensitivity of an asset price to movements in yields. See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 80, for additional information regarding the maturity of the companys fixed income portfolio. Over the past several years, the company has invested a higher portion of available funds in U.S. agency paper and insured municipal bonds, resulting in a significant rise in the percentage of the portfolio rated A and above based on fair value (market value). The majority of non rated securities are tax exempt municipal bonds from smaller municipalities that chose not to pursue a credit rating. Credit ratings as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, for the companys fixed income portfolio were: 2004 2003 Fair Percent Fair Percent (Dollars in millions) value to total value to total Moodys Ratings Aaa, Aa, A $ 3,101 60.3 % $ 2,007 47.4 % Baa 1,069 20.8 1,028 24.3 Ba 363 7.1 411 9.7 B 125 2.4 224 5.3 Caa 23 0.5 68 1.6 Ca 11 0.2 19 0.4 C 0 0.0 2 0.1 Non rated 449 8.7 473 11.2 Total $ 5,141 100.0 % $ 4,232 100.0 % Standard Poors Ratings AAA, AA, A $ 2,865 55.7 % $ 1,935 45.7 % BBB 1,095 21.3 1,084 25.6 BB 340 6.6 391 9.2 B 154 3.0 232 5.5 CCC 5 0.1 59 1.4 CC 11 0.2 3 0.1 D 4 0.1 7 0.2 Non rated 667 13.0 521 12.3 Total $ 5,141 100.0 % $ 4,232 100.0 % Similar to the equity portfolio, the fixed income portfolio is concentrated in the financials sector, including banks, brokerage, finance and investment and insurance companies. Management leverages its familiarity with this sector in its fixed income portfolio. The financials sector represented 15.7 percent and 16.1 percent, respectively, of book value and market value of the overall fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2004, compared with 16.7 percent and 17.1 percent of book value and market value at December 31, 2003. Approximately 85.3 percent of the market value of financials sector holdings were investment grade corporate bonds at year end 2004 compared with 82.2 percent at year end 2003. No other industry accounts for more than 10 percent of the fixed income portfolio. USAIG Pool Participation At December 31, 2004, $260 million, or 38.2 percent, of total reinsurance receivables, compared with $324 million, or 52.3 percent, at December 31, 2003, related to the companys participation in USAIG, a joint underwriting association of individual insurance companies that collectively function as a worldwide insurance market for all types of aviation and aerospace accounts. The reinsurance receivable primarily relates to September 11, 2001, events. The decline in 2004 was due to a partial reduction in those loss reserves. Due to the companys participation in USAIG for policy years 2001 and prior, The Cincinnati Insurance Company was named as the designated insurer for American Airlines policy year 2000 business. Reinsurance recoverables resulting from all American Airlines accidents during that year were recorded on The Cincinnati Insurance Companies 2001 financial statements. Management expects to recover 100 percent of the reinsurance recoverables associated with the USAIG participation although it is impossible to estimate the timeframe for recovery due to the complex nature of aviation and aerospace insurance. More than 99 percent of the reinsurance recoverables associated with USAIG are backed by securities on deposit. The company no longer participates in new business generated by USAIG and its members. Liabilities Overview At December 31, 2004, insurance reserves were 48.1 percent of total liabilities compared with 47.7 percent at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2004, the remainder of liabilities consisted primarily of unearned premiums (15.6 percent), deferred income tax (18.6 percent) and long and short term debt (8.0 percent). 2004 10 K Page 54 Table of Contents Total liabilities increased 5.9 percent, or $553 million, to $9.858 billion at December 31, 2004 from $9.305 billion at December 31, 2003. The increase primarily reflected: $303 million increase in insurance reserves as discussed below. The company does not discount its property casualty reserves. $93 million increase in unearned premiums due to higher premium volume. $371 million increase in long term debt as discussed below. Offsetting the increases were a $183 million decline in notes payable and a $115 million decline in deferred income tax liability, primarily reflecting lower unrealized gains in the investment portfolio. Property Casualty Reserve Levels At year end 2004, the total reserve balance, net of reinsurance, was $2.977 billion, compared with $2.845 billion at year end 2003 and $2.608 billion at year end 2002 (see Item 8, Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 82, for a reconciliation of property casualty reserve balances with the loss and loss expense liability on the balance sheet). The reserves reflected in the financial statements are managements most accurate estimation. The outside actuarys range for adequate statutory reserves, net of reinsurance, was $2.794 billion to $3.032 billion for 2004; $2.696 billion to $2.906 billion for 2003; and $2.492 billion to $2.674 billion for 2002. The assumptions used to establish the recommended ranges were consistent with the actuarys practices. Historically, the company has established reserves in the upper half of the actuarys range, as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies, Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 25. In addition to managements conclusions regarding adequate reserve levels, other factors that have affected reserve levels over the past three years included: Increases in coverage in force in selected business lines New business Higher initial case reserves on liability claims Judicial decisions and mass tort claims Loss cost inflation in selected lines The types of coverages the company offers and the risk levels retained have a direct influence on the development of claims. Specifically, claims that develop quickly and have lower risk retention levels generally are more predictable. As discussed in Commercial Lines Segment Reserves, Page 56, managements decision to re underwrite the commercial lines book of business beginning in 2000, including non renewing certain policyholders due to risk levels, and increasing rates to better reflect exposure levels, has already resulted in improved profitability. Management believes the program is leading to a lower risk profile for the overall commercial lines segment, which should contribute to favorable loss reserve trends. As discussed in Personal Lines Segment Reserves, Page 58, management is seeking to improve its personal lines segment performance, in particular the homeowner business line, partially by reducing risk exposure through changes in policy terms and conditions. Management does not expect its actions in personal lines to have a material impact on loss reserve trends, largely due to the relatively short tail nature of homeowner claims. In 2003 and 2004, $70 million in reserves were released following the November 2003 Ohio Supreme Courts limiting of its 1999 Scott Pontzer v. Liberty Mutual decision. The reserve releases were primarily made in the commercial auto and other liability business lines. As background, the Ohio Supreme Courts 1999 decision in Scott Pontzer greatly increased the exposure on commercial auto insurance policies. That ruling extended Ohio businesses uninsured motorist/underinsured motorist coverage in force over the preceding 15 years to their employees when they were not working and to the employees resident family members. It contributed to changes in policy wording for UM/UIM coverage. Additionally, the same courts 2000 decision in Linko v. Indemnity effectively caused insurers to extend UM/UIM coverage, at the newly increased level of exposure, to every auto insurance policy in Ohio at no additional premium. The two court rulings affected all auto insurers in the state. Between 1999 and December 2003, the company had established case and IBNR reserves for past UM/UIM losses on the basis of the 1999 and 2000 decisions. In the November 2003 decision to limit the Scott Pontzer decision, the court ruled that an employers commercial automobile insurance policy only covers injured employees and only when the accident happens in the course and scope of their employment. Following the fourth quarter 2003 reserve review, reserve levels were modified to reflect managements assessment that mold claims behaved similar to asbestos and environmental claims, and reserves for these claims should be estimated using similar methods. These changes have been seen predominately in the commercial multi peril business line. Management expects that mold exclusions added to the companys commercial policies beginning in 2003 will mitigate this issue after 2006. 2004 10 K Page 55 Table of Contents Further, beginning in 2003, reserve levels reflected the need to establish higher expense reserves because of the rise in litigation costs due to larger and more complex claims. These changes have been seen predominately in commercial multi peril and other liability business lines. Beginning in 2002, managements conclusions regarding reserve levels for all business lines reflected refinement of the manner in which the value of future salvage and subrogation for claims already incurred were estimated. Also in 2002, management increased IBNR reserves because of higher than expected paid and or reported development in workers compensation, commercial multi peril and other liability business lines for accident years 1999 through 2001. Asbestos and Environmental Reserves Management believes that the companys asbestos and environment reserves, including mold reserves, are adequate at this time and that these coverage areas are immaterial to the companys financial position due to the types of accounts the company has insured in the past. Loss and loss expenses incurred for all asbestos and environmental claims were $41 million, or 2.4 percent of total loss and loss expenses in 2004, compared with $28 million, or 1.6 percent, in 2003, and $37 million, or 2.2 percent, in 2002. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to mold claims. Net reserves for all asbestos and environmental claims were increased to $135 million in 2004 compared with $105 million in 2003 and $88 million in 2002. Net reserves for all asbestos and environmental claims were 4.5 percent, 3.7 percent and 3.4 percent of total reserves, in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Commercial accounts generally were written by the company after the development of coverage forms that exclude asbestos cleanup costs. The company believes its exposure to risks associated with past production and or installation of asbestos materials is minimal because the company was primarily a personal lines company when most of the asbestos exposure occurred. The commercial coverage the company did offer was predominantly related to local market construction activity rather than asbestos manufacturing. Further, over the past three years, to limit its exposure to mold and other environmental risks going forward, the company has revised policy terms where permitted by state regulation. Commercial Lines Segment Reserves For the business lines in the commercial lines insurance segment, the following table shows the breakout of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves: Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent (In millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2004 Commercial multi peril $ 465 $ 123 $ 227 $ 815 27.0 % Workers compensation 258 278 75 611 20.3 Commercial auto 254 58 64 376 12.5 Other liability 288 377 111 776 25.7 All other lines of business 289 19 130 438 14.5 Total $ 1,554 $ 855 $ 607 $ 3,016 100.0 % At December 31, 2003 Commercial multi peril $ 419 $ 82 $ 204 $ 705 24.0 % Workers compensation 240 255 68 563 19.2 Commercial auto 260 66 59 385 13.1 Other liability 284 382 108 774 26.4 All other lines of business 356 13 137 506 17.3 Total $ 1,559 $ 798 $ 576 $ 2,933 100.0 % As a result of underwriting actions taken since 2000 and a generally favorable insurance marketplace, the commercial lines segment has been able to obtain higher premium per exposure. As a result, profitability has improved due to higher revenue on stable loss and loss expenses. 2004 10 K Page 56 Table of Contents The following table provides the amounts of net reserve changes made over the past three years by commercial line of business and accident year: Commercial Workers Commercial Other (Dollars in millions) multi peril compensation auto liability As of December 31, 2004 Accident year: 2003 $ (5 ) $ 5 $ 11 $ 36 2002 2 (1 ) 10 41 2001 5 (6 ) 4 27 2000 4 (3 ) 4 13 1999 0 (2 ) 7 2 1998 1 (1 ) 3 0 1997 and prior (11 ) (7 ) 8 12 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (4 ) $ (15 ) $ 47 $ 131 Reserves as originally estimated $ 691 $ 514 $ 381 $ 635 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2004 695 529 334 504 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (4 ) $ (15 ) $ 47 $ 131 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (0.6 %) (4.9 %) 10.5 % 32.5 % As of December 31, 2003 Accident year: 2002 $ (3 ) $ (1 ) $ 11 $ 36 2001 2 (3 ) 2 15 2000 (10 ) (2 ) 7 5 1999 5 (1 ) 11 6 1998 (2 ) 0 2 3 1997 (2 ) (1 ) 1 5 1996 and prior (3 ) (5 ) 3 9 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (13 ) $ (13 ) $ 37 $ 79 Reserves as originally estimated $ 609 $ 477 $ 383 $ 580 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2003 622 490 346 501 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (13 ) $ (13 ) $ 37 $ 79 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (2.0 %) (4.3 %) 8.8 % 23.0 % As of December 31, 2002 Accident year: 2001 $ (10 ) $ (10 ) $ 13 $ 15 2000 (6 ) (1 ) 2 9 1999 (1 ) 0 0 3 1998 8 (1 ) (1 ) 10 1997 0 2 (1 ) 2 1996 3 0 1 1 1995 and prior 0 1 1 (16 ) Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ 15 $ 24 Reserves as originally estimated $ 542 $ 435 $ 373 $ 486 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2002 548 444 358 462 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ 15 $ 24 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (1.0 %) (3.1 %) 4.0 % 8.8 % The overall favorable development recorded in the commercial lines reserves illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially in long tail lines such as other liability. With the exception of the UM/UIM reserve releases and other significant changes in assumptions discussed above, commercial lines reserve development over the past three years was consistent with: The initiative, begun in 2001, to establish higher initial case reserves on liability claims in the period in which the claim is reported. Higher than expected medical inflation affecting the workers compensation line Settlements that differed from the established case reserves Changes in case reserves based on new information for specific claims or classes of claims 2004 10 K Page 57 Table of Contents Differences in the timing of actual settlements compared with the payout patterns assumed in the accident year IBNR reductions Personal Lines Segment Reserves For the business lines in the personal lines insurance segment, the following table shows the breakout of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves: Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent (In millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2004 Personal auto $ 181 $ 15 $ 35 $ 231 46.4 % Homeowners 81 21 23 125 25.1 All other lines of business 57 73 12 142 28.5 Total $ 319 $ 109 $ 70 $ 498 100.0 % At December 31, 2003 Personal auto $ 175 $ 16 $ 33 $ 224 49.6 % Homeowners 65 13 16 94 20.7 All other lines of business 48 75 12 135 29.7 Total $ 288 $ 104 $ 61 $ 453 100.0 % The personal lines segment continues to implement rate increases in an effort to restore profitability. Over the past three years, higher than normal catastrophe losses have contributed to the personal lines loss and loss expenses. 2004 10 K Page 58 Table of Contents The following table provides the amounts of net reserve changes made over the past three years by personal line of business and accident year: Personal (Dollars in millions) auto Homeowners As of December 31, 2004 Accident year: 2003 $ (9 ) $ 0 2002 (1 ) 1 2001 3 4 2000 3 1 1999 1 0 1998 1 0 1997 and prior 1 0 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (1 ) $ 6 Reserves as originally estimated $ 224 $ 89 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2004 225 83 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (1 ) $ 6 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (0.02 )% 2.2 % As of December 31, 2003 Accident year: 2002 $ (8 ) $ 2 2001 (4 ) 5 2000 0 0 1999 2 1 1998 0 0 1997 1 0 1996 and prior 0 0 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (9 ) $ 8 Reserves as originally estimated $ 201 $ 96 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2003 210 88 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (9 ) $ 8 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (2.1 )% 3.1 % As of December 31, 2002 Accident year: 2001 $ 11 $ (1 ) 2000 (1 ) 2 1999 3 0 1998 4 1 1997 1 0 1996 0 0 1995 and prior 1 0 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ 19 $ 2 Reserves as originally estimated $ 210 $ 81 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2002 191 79 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ 19 $ 2 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio 5.0 % 1.1 % The overall favorable development recorded in the personal lines segment reserves illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. Personal lines reserve development over the past three years was consistent with: Settlements that differed from the established case reserves Changes in case reserves based on new information for specific claims or classes of claims Differences in the timing of actual settlements compared with the payout patterns assumed in the accident year IBNR reductions Life Insurance Segment Reserves The company regularly reviews its life insurance business to ensure that any deferred acquisition cost associated with the business is recoverable and that its actuarial liabilities (life insurance segment reserves) make sufficient provision for future benefits and related expenses. In 2004, deferred acquisition costs were written off and reserves were 2004 10 K Page 59 Table of Contents restated for certain second to die policies following a period of losses in this line. In calculating the revised liabilities, the assumed investment yield was reduced to reflect current economic conditions and the termination rate was adjusted in line with actual experience and reinsurance ceded was calculated directly for each life insurance product, rather than averaging reinsurance costs over several product areas. Long and Short term Debt At December 31, 2004, long term debt was $791 million compared with $420 million at December 31, 2003. The company issued $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior notes due 2034 on November 1, 2004. The $368 million net proceeds from the offering: Paid off $183 million in short term debt. A portion of the short term debt was paid prior to the senior note offering using funds borrowed from the property casualty subsidiary. Proceeds from the offering were used to pay off that inter company loan in addition to paying off the outstanding balance on the lines of credit. Will finance the construction of an estimated $100 million office building and parking garage to be situated at the headquarters located in Fairfield beginning in 2005, as announced in August 2004. Are available for general corporate purposes. The company currently is working to commence an exchange offer with respect to the 6.125% senior notes issued in 2004 under the registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the offering of these notes. Management believes it will meet the timetable for completion of the exchange offer specified in the registration rights agreement. The interest rate of the notes will increase if the company does not comply with certain obligations under the registration rights agreement. In addition, the company has $420 million aggregate principal amount of 6.9% senior debentures due 2028. Neither note is encumbered by rating triggers. The company has minimized its reliance on debt financing although it utilizes lines of credit to fund short term cash needs. As of March 4, 2005, the companys senior debt was rated aa by A.M. Best Co., A by Fitch Ratings, A2 by Moodys Investors Services and A by Standard Poors Rating Services. During 2004, A.M. Best and Standard Poors changed their credit ratings for the senior debt due to their firms respective notching strategies. Notching is a rating organization standard that places an insurers credit rating generally two or three levels below its insurer financial strength rating (see Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, for discussion of the companys insurer financial strength ratings). Notching recognizes that in the event of financial problems, obligations to policyholders would be paid before obligations to creditors. A.M. Best and Standard Poors moved the senior debt credit ratings closer to their standard notching, although Standard Poors commented that CFCs rating still was one level higher than is typical because of the large pool of marketable securities at the holding company. During 2004, the company paid off $183 million of short term debt. At year end 2004, the company had one line of credit totaling $75 million with no outstanding balance. There are no financial covenants on the line of credit. During 2004, the company terminated an interest rate swap entered into by CFC Investment Company in 2001 as a cash hedge of variable interest payments for certain variable rate debt obligations ($31 million notional amount) to better match fixed rate lease assets with liabilities having a fixed financing rate. Under this interest rate swap contract, the company agreed to pay a fixed rate of interest for a seven year period. The contract was considered to be a hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows associated with the related interest payments. When the company paid off the underlying debt, it terminated this agreement at a cost of $2 million, net of tax. Interest expense on the companys short and long term debt was $38 million (pretax), or 14 cents per share (after tax), in 2004, which excludes interest expense on inter company debt. Assuming the company had issued the 6.125% senior notes on January 1, 2004, and used the proceeds as indicated, management estimates interest expense would have been $52 million (pretax), or 20 cents per share (after tax), in 2004. Off balance Sheet Arrangements The company had no off balance sheet arrangements (defined for purposes of applicable SEC rules) at year end 2004. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook Management anticipates investing approximately $15 million in key technology initiatives in 2005, primarily for its claims management and commercial lines policy processing systems (see Item 1, Property Casualty Insurance Operations, Page 1, for discussion of the technology initiatives underway). Capitalized development costs related to key technology initiatives totaled $14 million in 2004. These activities are conducted at managements discretion and no material contractual obligations exist for activities planned as part of these projects. In addition, material commitments for computer hardware and software, including maintenance contracts on hardware and other known obligations, are expected to require approximately $13 million over the next five years. The construction of an office building and parking garage to be situated at the headquarters located in Fairfield is expected to require approximately $100 million over a four year period. On January 6, 2005, the company entered into a cost plus contract with Messer Construction Co. for design build services in connection with the project. The company 2004 10 K Page 60 Table of Contents currently is working with Messer on design modifications that will be used to determine the final project cost. Construction preparation began in the first quarter of 2005 with completion estimated by September 2008. At December 31, 2004, the company estimated its future contractual obligations as follows: Payment due by period Within Years Years More than (In millions) 1 year 2 3 4 5 5 years Total Contractual obligations: Net property casualty loss and loss expense reserves $ 1,013 $ 1,077 $ 428 $ 459 $ 2,977 Net life loss expense reserves 7 0 0 0 7 Headquarters building expansion 21 53 26 0 100 Computer hardware and software 7 5 1 1 14 Annuitization obligations 23 74 50 36 183 Long term debt 0 0 0 795 795 Interest on long term debt 52 104 104 1,099 1,359 Other invested assets 2 4 1 0 7 Total $ 1,125 $ 1,317 $ 610 $ 2,390 $ 5,442 Estimated material commitments for net property casualty loss and loss expense reserves represented approximately 55 percent of the estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004. The company directs its staff to settle claims and pay losses as quickly as practical and made $1.621 billion in net claim payments during 2004. As of December 31, 2004, the company had net property casualty reserves of $2.977 billion, reflecting $1.522 billion in unpaid amounts on reported claims (case reserves), $634 million in loss expense reserves and $821 million in estimates of IBNR claims. The specific amounts and timing of obligations related to case reserves and related loss expenses are not set contractually. The amounts and timing of obligations for IBNR claims and related loss expenses are unknown. Nonetheless, based on cumulative property casualty claims paid over the last ten years, the company anticipates that approximately 34 percent of property casualty reserves will be paid within one year, an additional 36 percent between one and three years, 14 percent between three and five years, and 16 percent in more than five years. While management believes that historical performance of loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claims payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. The historic pattern of using premium receipts for the payment of loss and loss expenses has enabled the company to extend slightly the maturities of the investment portfolio beyond the estimated settlement date of the loss reserves. The effective duration to maturity of the companys fixed income portfolio was 6.9 years at December 31, 2004. By contrast, at December 31, 2004, the duration of the companys loss and loss expense reserves was 3.0 years and the duration of all liabilities was 2.7 years. Management believes this difference in duration does not affect the companys ability to meet its current obligations because cash flow from operations is sufficient to meet these obligations. In addition, the companys investment strategy has led to substantial unrealized gains from holdings in equity securities. These equity holdings could be liquidated to meet higher than anticipated loss and loss expenses. Management believes that the insurance subsidiaries maintain sufficient liquidity to pay claims and operating expenses, as well as meet commitments in the event of unforeseen circumstances such as catastrophe losses, reinsurer insolvencies, changes in the timing of claims payments, increases in claims severity, reserve deficiencies or inadequate premium rates. Management believes catastrophic events are the most likely cause of an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency. Management believes the effect on future liquidity of these items may be offset by: Reinsurance The companys property catastrophe reinsurance program mitigates the liquidity risk of an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event. The companys current catastrophe reinsurance treaties provide coverage for gross losses up to $500 million (see Item 1, Reinsurance, Page 6, for a summary of the companys reinsurance agreements). Under the terms of the catastrophe reinsurance treaties, the company retains the first $25 million in losses, 40 percent of the next $20 million in losses and 5 percent of losses from $45 million to $500 million, resulting in a maximum cash outlay of $56 million for gross losses up to $500 million. The companys reinsurance treaties are with highly rated firms with which the company has done business for a number of years. Reinsurance does not relieve the company of its obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of the companys reinsurers is important because the companys ability to recover for losses under one of the reinsurance agreements depends on the financial viability of the reinsurer. Financial strength As discussed above, the company anticipates that approximately 34 percent of property casualty insurance reserves will be paid within one year, an additional 36 percent between one and three years, 14 percent between three and five years, and 16 percent in more than five years. These timings are based on cumulative property casualty claims paid over the last 10 years. While management believes that historical 2004 10 K Page 61 Table of Contents performance of loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claims payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. Management believes that it could meet its obligations under a significant and unexpected change in the timing of these payments because of the liquidity of the companys invested assets, strong financial position and access to lines of credit. Financial resources On August 26, 2004, the company announced that Cincinnati Financial Corporation transferred approximately 31.8 million shares of Fifth Third common stock to The Cincinnati Insurance Company, the property casualty insurance subsidiary. This action was related to the companys June 28, 2004, application to the SEC seeking exemptive relief under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The transfer was authorized by Cincinnati Financials board of directors on August 13, 2004, and approved by the Ohio Department of Insurance on August 24, 2004. The asset transfer resolved the holding companys current status under the Investment Company Act. See Item 1, Regulation, Page 15, for discussion of the risks associated with the application for exemptive relief. If it were to be determined that the company was an unregistered investment company before the asset transfer, Cincinnati Financial could be unable to enforce contracts undertaken with third parties during the period that it was an unregistered investment company. Third parties could seek to rescind transactions undertaken with Cincinnati Financial during that period. As a result, it could be determined that holders of Cincinnati Financials $420 million aggregate principal amount of 6.9% Senior Debentures due 2028 have a right to rescind such indebtedness, thereby requiring Cincinnati Financial to immediately repay such amounts. However, equitable considerations set forth in the Investment Company Act could support the companys right to enforce contracts and could limit or prevent third parties ability to rescind a transaction. However, Cincinnati Financial currently has available sufficient assets or could access the capital markets to fund such repayment and believes that its assets are adequate to meet its short and long term obligations. In the event the company chose to access the capital markets, current market conditions would dictate the rate on new debt, which could be higher than the 6.9 percent currently paid on the debt. Shareholders Equity Overview Total shareholders equity was 38.8 percent and 40.0 percent of total assets at year end 2004 and 2003, respectively. As a long term investor, the company has followed a buy and hold strategy for more than 40 years. A significant amount of unrealized appreciation on equity investments has been generated as a result of this policy. Unrealized appreciation on equity investments, before deferred income taxes, was $5.553 billion and $6.001 billion at year end 2004 and 2003, respectively. On an after tax basis, it constituted 57.8 percent of total shareholders equity at year end 2004. Unrealized gains in the investment portfolio (accumulated other comprehensive income) from long term appreciation and investment of cash flows have resulted in year end 2004 shareholders equity of $6.249 billion. Investments at the parent company give management flexibility to support its capitalization policies for the subsidiaries, improve the ability of the insurance companies to write additional premiums and maintain high ratings. Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2004 2003 2002 Common stock, paid in capital less treasury stock $ 405 $ 134 $ 183 Retained earnings 2,057 1,986 1,772 Accumulated other comprehensive income 3,787 4,084 3,643 Total $ 6,249 $ 6,204 $ 5,598 Comprehensive Income During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the company had realized investment gains before taxes of $147 million, $81 million and $58 million offset by realized investment losses of $56 million, $122 million and $152 million, respectively. At December 31, 2004, unrealized investment gains before taxes totaled $5.857 billion and unrealized investment losses in the investment portfolio amounted to $17 million. The unrealized appreciation was primarily due to the companys holdings in Fifth Third (Nasdaq:FITB) and Alltel Corporation (NYSE:AT) common stock. 2004 10 K Page 62 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Introduction Market risk is the potential for a decrease in securities value resulting from broad yet uncontrollable forces such as: inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions or other widespread unpredictable events. It is comprised of many individual risks that, when combined, create a macroeconomic impact. The company accepts and manages risks in the investment portfolio as part of the means of achieving portfolio objectives. Some of the risks are: Political the potential for a decrease in market value due to the real or perceived impact of governmental policies or conditions Regulatory the potential for a decrease in market value due to the impact of legislative proposals or changes in laws or regulations Economic the potential for a decrease in value due to changes in general economic factors (recession, inflation, deflation, etc.) Revaluation the potential for a decrease in market value due to a change in relative value (change in market multiple) of the market brought on by general economic factors Interest rate the potential for a decrease in market value of a security or portfolio due to its sensitivity to changes (increases or decreases) in the general level of interest rates Company specific risk is the potential for a particular issuer to experience a decline in valuation due to the impact of sector or market risk on the holding or because of issues specific to the firm: Fraud the potential for a negative impact on an issuers performance due to actual or alleged illegal or improper activity of individuals it employs Credit the potential for deterioration in an issuers financial profile due to specific company issues, problems it faces in the course of its operations or industry related issues Default the possibility that an issuer will not make a required payment (interest payment or return of principal) on its debt. Generally this occurs after its financial profile has deteriorated (credit risk) and it no longer has the means to make its payments The investment committee of the board of directors monitors the investment risk management process primarily through its executive oversight of investment activities. The company takes an active approach to managing market and other investment risks, including the accountabilities and controls over these activities. Actively managing these market risks is integral to the companys operations and could require a change in the character of future investments purchased or sold or require a shift in the existing asset portfolios to manage exposure to market risk within acceptable ranges. The approach is applied daily by the companys portfolio managers and analysts to each of the five asset classes in which the company invests. Sector risk is the potential for a negative impact on a particular industry due to its sensitivity to factors that make up market risk. Market risk affects general supply/demand factors for an industry and will affect companies within that industry to varying degrees. Risks associated with the five asset classes described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, can be summarized as follows (H high, A average, L low): Investment grade High yield Tax exempt Common Convertible corporate bonds corporate bonds municipal bonds stocks securities Political A A H A A Regulatory A A A A A Economic A H A H H Revaluation A H A H A Interest rate H A H A A Fraud A A L A A Credit A H L A A Default L H L A A Fixed income Securities For investment grade corporate bonds, the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices leads to falling bond values during periods of increasing interest rates. Although the potential for a worsening financial condition, and ultimately default, does exist with investment grade corporate bonds, their higher quality financial profiles make credit risk less of a concern than for lower quality investments. The company addresses this risk by consistently investing 2004 10 K Page 63 Table of Contents within a particular maturity range, which has, over the years, provided the portfolio with a laddered maturity schedule, which management believes is less subject to large swings in value due to interest rate changes. While a single maturity range may see values drop due to general interest rate levels, other maturity ranges will be less affected by those changes. Additionally, purchases are spread across a wide spectrum of industries and companies, diversifying the companys holdings and minimizing the impact of specific industries or companies with greater sensitivities to interest rate fluctuations. The primary risk related to high yield corporate bonds is credit risk or the potential for a deteriorating financial structure. A weak financial profile can lead to rating downgrades from the credit rating agencies, which can put further downward pressure on bond prices. Interest rate risk is less of a factor with high yield corporate bonds, as valuation is related more directly to underlying operating performance than to general interest rates. This puts more emphasis on the financial results achieved by the issuer rather than general economic trends or statistics within the marketplace. The company addresses this concern by analyzing issuer and industry specific financial results and by closely monitoring holdings within this asset class. The primary risks related to tax exempt bonds are interest rate risk and geo political risk associated with the specific economic environment within the political boundaries of the issuing municipal entity. The company addresses these concerns by focusing on municipalities general obligation debt and on essential service bonds. Essential service bonds derive a revenue stream from the services provided by the municipality, which are vital to the people living in the area (schools, water service, sewer service, etc.). Another risk related to tax exempt bonds is regulatory risk or the potential for legislative changes that would negate the benefit of owning tax exempt bonds. The company monitors regulatory activity for situations that may negatively affect current holdings and its ongoing strategy for investing in these securities. The final, less significant risk is a small exposure to credit risk for a portion of the tax exempt portfolio that has support from corporate entities. Examples are bonds insured by corporate bond insurers or bonds with interest payments made by a corporate entity through a municipal conduit/authority. While decisions regarding these investments primarily consider the underlying municipal situation, the existence of third party insurance reduces risk in the event of default. In circumstances in which the municipality is unable to meet its obligations, risk would be increased if the insuring entity were experiencing financial duress. Because of the companys diverse exposure and selection of higher rated entities with strong financial profiles, the company does not believe this is a material concern. Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Because of the companys strong surplus, long term investment horizon and its ability to hold most fixed income investments until maturity, management believes the company is well positioned if interest rates were to rise. A higher rate environment would provide the opportunity to invest cash flow in higher yielding securities, while reducing the likelihood of calls of the higher yielding U.S. agency paper purchased over the past year. While higher interest rates would be expected to continue to increase the number of fixed income holdings trading below 100 percent of book value, management believes lower fixed income security values due solely to interest rate changes would not signal a decline in credit quality. The company is using a dynamic financial planning model developed during 2002 to further incorporate analytical tools in assessing market risks. Management believes the model is improving the companys ability to measure the impact on bond values resulting from changes in interest rates. Improved measurement of the impact of interest rate changes should allow for improved matching of the companys assets and liabilities. The company measures modified duration to both the call date and maturity. The table below summarizes modified duration and shows the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates on the market value of the fixed income portfolio under both modified duration scenarios: Market value Modified duration to maturity Modified duration to call of fixed 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis income bond point spread point spread point spread point spread (In millions) portfolio decrease increase decrease increase At December 31, 2004 $ 5,141 $ 5,516 $ 4,766 $ 5,397 $ 4,885 At December 31, 2003 $ 4,232 $ 4,553 $ 3,912 $ 4,458 $ 4,007 The duration to maturity of the companys bond portfolio is currently 6.9 years and the duration to maturity of the redeemable preferred portfolio is currently 8.9 years. A 100 basis point movement in interest rates would result in an approximately 7.3 percent change in the market value of the combined portfolios. Generally speaking, the higher a bonds rating, the more directly correlated movements in its market value will be to changes in the general level of interest rates. Therefore, the municipal bond portfolio is more likely to respond to a changing interest rate scenario. The companys U.S. agency paper portfolio, because it generally has very little call protection, has a low duration and would not be expected to be as responsive to rate movements. Lower investment grade and high yield corporate bond values are driven by credit spreads, as well as their durations, in response to interest rate movements. 2004 10 K Page 64 Table of Contents In the dynamic financial planning model, the selected interest rate change of 100 basis points represents managements views of a shift in rates that is quite possible over a one year period. The rates modeled should not be considered a prediction of future events as interest rates may be much more volatile in the future. The analysis is not intended to provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in rates on the companys results or financial condition, nor does it take into account any actions that might be taken to reduce exposure to such risks. Equity and Equity linked Securities Common stocks are subject to a variety of risk factors encompassed under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying industries and companies within those industries. A downturn in the economy will have a negative impact on an equity portfolio. Industry and company specific risks have the potential to substantially affect the market value of the companys equity portfolio. The company addresses these risks by maintaining investments in a small group of holdings that management can analyze closely, better understanding their business and the related risk factors. At December 31, 2004, the company held 14 individual equity positions valued at approximately $100 million or above, see Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for additional details on these holdings. These equity positions accounted for approximately 91.5 percent of the unrealized appreciation of the entire portfolio. Management believes the companys equity investment style centered on companies that pay and increase dividends to shareholders is an appropriate long term strategy. While the companys long term financial position would be affected by prolonged changes in the market valuation of its investments, management believes the companys strong surplus position and cash flow provide it with a cushion against short term fluctuations in valuation. The company believes that the continued payment of cash dividends by the issuers of the common equities held by the company also should provide a floor to their valuation. The companys investments are heavily weighted toward the financials sector, which represented 65.9 percent of the total market value of the common stock portfolio at December 31, 2004. Financials sector investments typically underperform the overall market during periods when interest rates are expected to rise. Management historically has seen these types of short term fluctuations in market value of its holdings as potential buying opportunities but is cognizant that a prolonged downturn in this sector could create a long term negative effect on the portfolio. While past performance cannot guarantee future returns, over the longer term, the performance of the companys equity portfolio has exceeded that of the broader market, achieving a compound annual total return of 3.2 percent for the five years ended December 31, 2004, compared with a compound annual decline of 2.3 percent for the Standard Poors 500 Index, a common benchmark of market performance. In 2004, the equity portfolio underperformed the market, with a total return of a negative 1.9 percent, compared with the Standard Poors 500s return of 10.9 percent, primarily because of market value fluctuations in its common stock holdings of Fifth Third. The primary risk related to convertible securities is similar to other corporate fixed income securities in terms of their sensitivity to interest rates, credit risk and default risk. The better the financial condition of the underlying issuer, the lower the credit risk. However, the pricing of convertible securities is more likely to be driven by the relationship of the underlying common stock price to the strike price of the embedded option. If the underlying stock price is well below the strike price, the convertible security will trade more like a pure fixed income instrument and be more interest rate sensitive. However, as the underlying stock approaches the option strike price, the convertible will be less interest rate sensitive and more responsive to movements in the stock. Fifth Third Bancorp Holding The company held 72.8 million shares of Fifth Third common stock at a cost of $283 million at December 31, 2004. The market value of the companys Fifth Third position was $3.443 billion at year end 2004, or 46.1 percent of the companys total common equity portfolio, compared with $4.301 billion, or 52.7 percent, at year end 2003. The after tax unrealized gain represented by the companys Fifth Third position was $2.054 billion, or 54.1 percent of the companys total after tax unrealized gains at year end 2004, compared with $2.612 billion, or 63.8 percent, at year end 2003. The Fifth Third position represented $12.28 of the companys total book value of $37.38 per share at year end 2004, compared with $15.51 at year end 2003. Every $1.00 change in the market price of Fifth Thirds common stock has approximately a 28 cent impact on book value per share. A 20 percent ($9.46) change in the market price of Fifth Thirds common stock, which was $47.30 at December 31, 2004, would result in a $689 million change in assets and a $448 million change in after tax unrealized gains. This would affect shareholders equity by 7.2 percent and book value by $2.68 per share. Fifth Thirds value over the past two years was affected by uncertainty surrounding a regulatory review that was concluded in early 2004. Fifth Third continues to meet Cincinnati Financials investing criteria. Cincinnati Financial management and the investment committee of the board of directors review the Fifth Third holding on a continual basis. 2004 10 K Page 65 Table of Contents Unrealized Investment gains and Losses At December 31, 2004, unrealized investment gains before taxes totaled $5.857 billion and unrealized investment losses in the investment portfolio amounted to $17 million. Unrealized Investment Gains The unrealized gains at year end 2004 were primarily due to long term gains from the companys holdings in the common stock of Fifth Third (Nasdaq: FITB) and Alltel Corporation (NYSE:AT). Reflecting the companys long term investment philosophy, of the 1,385 securities trading at or above book value, 761, or 54.9 percent, have shown unrealized gains for more than 24 months. Unrealized Investment Losses Potential Other than temporary Impairments The asset impairment policy evaluates significant decreases in the market value of the assets; changes in legal factors or in the business climate; or other such factors indicating whether or not the carrying amount may be recoverable. A declining trend in market value, the extent of the market value decline and the length of time in which the value has been depressed are objective measures that can be outweighed by subjective measures such as impending events and issuer liquidity. Impairment is evaluated in the event of a declining market value for four consecutive quarters with quarter end market value below 50 percent of book value or a market value 50 percent below book value for three consecutive quarters. In addition to applying the impairment policy, the status of the portfolio is constantly monitored by the companys portfolio managers for indications of potential problems or issues that may be possible impairment issues. If an impairment indicator is noted, the portfolio managers even more closely scrutinize the security. The number of securities trading below 100 percent of book value at December 31, 2004, was above the number at December 31, 2003. The number of securities trading below 100 percent of book value can be expected to fluctuate as interest rates rise or fall. In addition, the portfolio benefited from continued improvements in the credit quality of the bond portfolio, as rated by Standard Poors and Moodys. Further, book values for some securities have been revised due to impairment charges recognized during 2003 and 2002. During 2004, four securities were written down as other than temporarily impaired. A total of 208 holdings were trading below book value at December 31, 2004, representing 7.0 percent of invested assets and $17 million in unrealized losses. Management deems the risk related to securities trading between 70 percent and 100 percent of book value to be relatively minor and at least partially offset by the earned income potential of these investments. Two hundred of these holdings were trading between 90 percent and 100 percent of book value at December 31, 2004. The value of these securities fluctuates primarily because of changes in interest rates. The market value of these 200 securities was $856 million at December 31, 2004, and they accounted for $11 million in unrealized losses. Eight of these holdings were trading below 90 percent of book value at December 31, 2004. The market value of these holdings was $27 million at December 31, 2004, and they accounted for the remaining $6 million in unrealized losses. These holdings are being monitored for credit and industry related risk factors. Of these securities, three are airline related. Holdings trading below 70 percent of book value are monitored for potential other than temporary impairment. At December 31, 2004, no holdings were trading below 70 percent of book value. At year end 2003, two securities with a combined book value of $70 thousand were trading below 70 percent of book value. As discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 27, when evaluating other than temporary impairments, management considers the companys ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover a substantial portion of its cost. Because of the companys investment philosophy and strong capitalization, it can hold securities until their scheduled redemption that might otherwise be deemed impaired as management evaluates their potential for recovery based economic, industry or company factors. While management does not forecast realized investment gains and losses, it believes that impairment charges in 2005 will be minimal. Every security in the portfolio was trading at or above 75 percent of book value at December 31, 2004. Management believes impairments should be limited to securities marked to market because they have been identified for sale, or those where issuer specific events cause sharp declines in market value with little or no warning. 2004 10 K Page 66 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the portfolio by period of time: (Dollars in millions) 6 Months or less 6 12 Months 12 24 Months 24 36 Months Gross Gross Gross Gross Number of unrealized Number of unrealized Number of unrealized Number of unrealized issues gain/loss issues gain/loss issues gain/loss issues gain/loss Investment grade corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 34 0 31 (4 ) 3 (1 ) 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 112 8 9 1 56 14 274 111 Total 146 $ 8 40 $ (3 ) 59 $ 13 274 $ 111 High yield corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 3 0 1 0 5 (2 ) 3 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 26 3 7 1 57 21 31 7 Total 29 $ 3 8 $ 1 62 $ 19 34 $ 7 Tax exempt municipal bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 73 (1 ) 32 (1 ) 5 (1 ) 3 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 224 8 30 2 37 7 407 59 Total 297 $ 7 62 $ 1 42 $ 6 410 $ 59 Convertible securities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 2 0 3 (1 ) 1 0 3 (1 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 15 4 7 4 23 22 24 32 Total 17 $ 4 10 $ 3 24 $ 22 27 $ 31 Common stocks: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 4 (4 ) 1 0 1 (1 ) 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 6 1 1 6 14 56 25 5,490 Total 10 $ (3 ) 2 $ 6 15 $ 55 25 $ 5,490 Summary: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 116 (5 ) 68 (6 ) 15 (5 ) 9 (1 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 383 24 54 14 187 120 761 5,699 Total 499 $ 19 122 $ 8 202 $ 115 770 $ 5,698 2004 10 K Page 67 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the portfolio: (Dollars in millions) Gross Gross Number unrealized investment of issues Book value Market value gain/loss income At December 31, 2004 Investment grade corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 68 478 474 (4 ) 17 Trading at 100% and above of book value 451 2,062 2,196 134 110 Securities sold in current year 11 Total 519 $ 2,540 $ 2,670 $ 130 $ 138 High yield corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 12 24 22 (2 ) 2 Trading at 100% and above of book value 121 300 333 33 26 Securities sold in current year 12 Total 133 $ 324 $ 355 $ 31 $ 40 Tax exempt municipal bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 113 257 253 (4 ) 4 Trading at 100% and above of book value 698 1,365 1,441 76 61 Securities sold in current year 3 Total 811 $ 1,622 $ 1,694 $ 72 $ 68 Convertible securities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 9 58 56 (2 ) 3 Trading at 100% and above of book value 69 337 399 62 21 Securities sold in current year 5 Total 78 $ 395 $ 455 $ 60 $ 29 Common stocks: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 6 83 78 (5 ) 6 Trading at 100% and above of book value 46 1,835 7,387 5,552 209 Securities sold in current year 1 Total 52 $ 1,918 $ 7,465 $ 5,547 $ 216 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 208 900 883 (17 ) 32 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,385 5,899 11,756 5,857 427 Securities sold in current year 32 Total 1,593 $ 6,799 $ 12,639 $ 5,840 $ 491 At December 31, 2003 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 2 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 116 672 648 (24 ) 25 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,286 5,484 11,801 6,317 402 Securities sold in current year 35 Total 1,404 $ 6,156 $ 12,449 $ 6,293 $ 462 2004 10 K Page 68 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The purpose of the Managements Discussion and Analysis is to provide an understanding of Cincinnati Financial Corporations (CFC) consolidated results of operations and financial position. It begins with an overview of the company and its outlook, a safe harbor statement that covers factors that could cause results to differ from those anticipated by management and details on the companys critical accounting policies and estimates. It should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, Pages 20 and 21, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes, beginning on Page 72. Per share amounts have been adjusted for the 5 percent stock dividend paid June 15, 2004; per share data has not been adjusted for the 5 percent stock dividend to be paid on April 26, 2005. Unless otherwise noted, estimated industry data are referenced from materials presented on a statutory basis by A.M. Best, a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and financial strength rating organization. Statutory data for the company is labeled as such; all other company data is presented on a GAAP basis. Executive Summary Cincinnati Financial Corporation is the parent company of the nations 25th largest property casualty insurer, based on statutory net written premium volume through the first nine months of 2004. The company marketed property casualty insurance products through a select group of 986 independent insurance agencies in 31 states at year end 2004. The company is built on a foundation of personal relationships with these local independent insurance agents. These agents have an informed, front line perspective that benefits policyholders as well as the company, helping to create profitability and value for shareholders. Local resident field marketing and other associates live in the communities they serve, working from offices in their homes and providing 24/7 availability. They are assigned directly to agencies, where they are able to provide prompt and personal service, gain firsthand knowledge and be effective decision makers for the company. The company differentiates itself by its commitment to: providing exceptional claims service and field underwriting through locally based associates serving the needs of agents and policyholders; offering competitive products, rates and compensation; and maintaining excellent financial strength ratings. Headquarters associates, including approximately 600 underwriters, are assigned to specific agencies and provide important support to the field staff and agencies. In addition to property casualty insurance products, the company offers life insurance, leasing and asset management services to help attract and retain high quality independent insurance agencies. This strategy helps diversify revenues and profitability for both the agency and the company and enhances the already strong relationship built by the property casualty operations. Among the various factors that influence the consolidated results of operations and financial position of the company, management considers its relationships with independent agencies to be the most significant. To continue to achieve its performance targets, the company must maintain its strong relationships with the select group of agencies with which it does business, write a significant portion of each agencys business and attract new agencies. The company seeks to be an indispensable partner in each agencys success. The company measures its accomplishment of this objective based on being the largest or second largest carrier in each agency, either by dollars of premium or number of policies written, depending on the agencys mix of business. The companys strong surplus and asset positions provide security for policyholders while allowing for a successful, equity centered investment strategy. By consistently applying long term strategies rather than taking short term actions, the company seeks to build shareholder value by: Achieving above industry average growth in property casualty statutory net written premiums and maintaining industry leading profitability by leveraging its regional franchise and proven agency centered business strategy. Pursuing a total return investment strategy that generates both strong investment income growth and capital appreciation. Maintaining financial strength by keeping the ratio of debt to capital low and purchasing reinsurance to protect investment flexibility. Increasing the total return to shareholders through a combination of higher earnings per share, growth in book value and increasing dividends. The board of directors is committed to steadily increasing cash dividends and periodically authorizing stock dividends and splits. The board has increased the indicated annual dividend rate for 45 consecutive years, a record the company believes is matched by only 11 other publicly traded corporations. In 2004, the company reported record results, as described in detail in the results of operations. Statutory net written premium growth outpaced the estimated industry average while the combined ratio, a common measure of profitability 2004 10 K Page 23 Table of Contents for property casualty insurers, was significantly better than the estimated industry average. The growth rate of investment income reached its highest level in four years and book value reached a new record, as growth in net income more than offset market fluctuations in the equity portfolio. The companys financial position continued to strengthen with assets at a record level. The company currently is pursuing a number of strategies to help it achieve its performance objectives over the next several years: Increasing business with existing agencies by continuing to provide personal service. Improving ease of doing business and communication with agencies through an expanding portfolio of technology solutions. The company expects to continue to strengthen its relationships with agencies through the introduction and use of technology that is designed to bring agencies greater efficiencies and permit associates to spend more time with people and less with paper. Subdividing field marketing territories to further increase the companys representatives presence in, and their ability to serve, each agency. Appointing additional agencies in markets where the company has identified a need for insurance products and services and an opportunity to capture a greater market share. Resume equity investing. The company remains fully committed to an equity investment focus that management believes is a key to the companys long term growth and stability. The company will continue to invest for income and growth, focusing on a total return strategy supported by investments in dividend paying companies. In 2005, management believes the company will achieve statutory net written premium growth in the mid single digits and a GAAP combined ratio of 91 percent (equivalent to approximately 91 percent on a statutory basis). A.M. Best estimates that 2005 net written premiums industry wide may rise by 1 percent and that the 2005 industry statutory combined ratio may be approximately 97.3 percent. Currently, management anticipates pretax investment income growth in 2005 in the range of 5 percent to 6 percent. The investment portfolio is positioned for long term capital appreciation. Equity and equity linked securities make up 34.0 percent of the portfolio based on book value and 62.7 percent based on market value at year end 2004. Management expects that the impact of these anticipated strong operating results will be tempered in 2005 by the adoption of option expensing and slightly higher interest expense on long term debt, which increased modestly with the November 2004 issue of $375 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2034. The company will adopt Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 (R), Share Based Payment, which calls for stock option expense to be included as a component of net income, in the third quarter of 2005. Pro forma option expense as disclosed in Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, would have reduced earnings per share by 7 cents in both 2004 and 2003 and 8 cents in 2002. Safe Harbor Statement This is a Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Certain forward looking statements contained herein involve potential risks and uncertainties. The companys future results could differ materially from those discussed. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes Ability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased and financial strength of reinsurers Increased frequency and or severity of claims Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the companys relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the companys opportunities for growth, such as: Downgrade of the companys financial strength ratings, Concerns that doing business with the company is too difficult or Perceptions that the companys level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace Insurance regulatory actions, legislation or court decisions or legal actions that increase expenses or place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace Delays in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements Inaccurate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates, including loss reserves 2004 10 K Page 24 Table of Contents Events that reduce the companys ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 in the future Recession or other economic conditions or regulatory, accounting or tax changes resulting in lower demand for insurance products Sustained decline in overall stock market values negatively affecting the companys equity portfolio, in particular a sustained decline in the market value of Fifth Third Bancorp shares, a significant equity holding Events that lead to a significant decline in the market value of a particular security and impairment of the asset Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the companys ability to generate growth in investment income Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings Effect on the insurance industry as a whole, and thus on the companys business, of the suit brought by the Attorney General of the State of New York against participants in the insurance industry, as well as any increased regulatory oversight that might result from the suit Limited flexibility in conducting investment activities if the restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act of 1940 were to become applicable to the parent company Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain. Readers are cautioned that the company undertakes no obligation to review or update the forward looking statements included herein. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Cincinnati Financial Corporations financial statements are prepared using GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76. In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the companys critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting policies, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may be appropriate. Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves Overview The most significant estimates relate to the companys reserves for property casualty loss and loss expenses. Management believes that the stability of the companys business makes its historical data the most important source for establishing adequate reserve levels. Management bases reserve estimates on company experience and information from internal analyses, obtaining additional information from consulting outside actuaries. When reviewing reserves, management analyzes historical data and estimates the effect of various loss development factors. Management believes that the following represent the primary risks to its ability to estimate loss reserves accurately: Court decisions that result in unanticipated coverage expansions on past and existing policies Changes in medical inflation and mortality rates that affect workers compensation claims Changes in claim cost trends, including the effects of general economic and tort cost inflation, not reflected in the historical data used to estimate loss reserves Changes in reinsurance coverage, not reflected in reserving data, that affect the companys net payments and net case reserves Payment and reporting pattern changes attributable to the implementation of a new claims management system Reporting pattern changes attributable to changes in case reserving practices, particularly with respect to umbrella claims 2004 10 K Page 25 Table of Contents Absence of cost effective methods for assessing asbestos and environmental claim liabilities accurately (see Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Asbestos and Environmental Reserves, Page 56, for discussion of related reserve levels and trends) Any of these factors can cause the companys ultimate loss experience to be better or worse than reserves held, and the difference could be material. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and strengthened, the amount of such increase is treated as a charge in the period that the deficiency is recognized, raising the loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. To the extent that reserves are redundant and released, the amount of the release is a credit in the period that the redundancy is recognized, reducing the loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings. A reserve change of $29 million has a 1 percentage point effect on the loss and loss expense ratio, based on 2004 earned premiums. Each 1 percentage point change in the loss and loss expense ratio has a $19 million effect on income and an 11 cent per share effect on net income per share, based on 2004 earned premiums. Establishing Reserves Reserves are established for the total of unpaid loss and loss expenses, including estimates for claims that have been reported, estimates for claims that have been incurred but not yet reported (IBNR) and estimates of loss expenses associated with processing and settling those claims. Reserves are determined for the various lines of business. Loss reserves are reduced by salvage and subrogation reserves. Management establishes case reserves for claims that have been reported within the parameters of coverage provided in the policy. Individual case reserves greater than $35,000 established by field claims representatives are reviewed by experienced headquarters claims supervisors while case reserves greater than $100,000 are reviewed by headquarters claims managers. The estimates reflect informed judgment and experience of the companys claims associates based on general insurance reserving practices and their experience with the company. Case reserves are reviewed on a 90 day cycle, or more frequently if specific circumstances require, based on events such as the status of ongoing negotiations. In 2001, the company began to establish higher initial case reserves on serious liability claims to reflect recent experience indicating the likelihood that juries would ignore significant liability issues in cases involving seriously injured claimants. To establish IBNR reserves on an annual basis, management uses a variety of tools, including actuarial and statistical methods. These may include but are not limited to: The Case Incurred Development Method The Paid Development Method The Bornhuetter Ferguson Method Supplemental statistical information is compiled and reviewed to aid in the application of the actuarial methods. The supplemental data also is used to evaluate the reasonableness of estimates derived from the actuarial methods. This information includes: Industry loss frequency and severity and premium trends Past, present and anticipated product pricing Anticipated premium growth Other quantifiable trends Projected ultimate loss ratios Management conducts its thorough evaluation of the adequacy of reserves as of the end of the third quarter of each year. As a result, the most significant refinements in reserves historically have been implemented in the fourth quarter. Less detailed, periodic reviews of reserve adequacy are made at the other quarter ends. A loss review committee, including internal actuaries and representatives from management of multiple operating departments, is responsible for the quarterly review process. The internal actuaries provide a point estimate to summarize their analysis. At year end 2004 and 2003, IBNR reserves differed from the internal actuarial point estimate by less than 1 percent of the companys loss and loss expense reserve. Adjusting Reserves While the company believes that reported reserves provide for all unpaid loss and loss expense obligations, the estimation processes involve a number of variables and assumptions. Management believes this uncertainty is mitigated by the historical stability of the companys book of business and by its periodic reviews of estimates. As loss experience develops and new information becomes known, the reserve is reviewed and adjusted as appropriate. In this process, the company monitors trends in the industry, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional exposures to loss. If management determines that reserves established in prior years were not sufficient or were excessive, the change is reflected in current year results. 2004 10 K Page 26 Table of Contents Outside Actuarial Review As part of its internal processes, management utilizes an outside actuary to provide management with an opinion regarding an acceptable range for adequate statutory reserves based on generally accepted actuarial guidelines. Historically, the company has established adequate reserves that have fallen in the upper half of the outside actuarys range. This approach has resulted in recognition of reserve redundancies (see Item 1, Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Development of Loss and Loss Expenses, Page 5, for a 10 year history of reserve development). Modestly redundant reserves support the companys business strategy to retain high financial strength ratings and remain a market for agencies business in all market conditions. The outside actuaries conduct a thorough evaluation of the adequacy of reserves as of the end of the third quarter of each year and conduct a supplemental review of full year data at year end. Highly Uncertain Exposures In the normal course of its business, the company may provide coverage for exposures for which estimates of losses are highly uncertain. Most significant are catastrophic events. Due to the nature of these events, management is unable to predict precisely the frequency or potential cost of catastrophe occurrences. However, in an effort to control such losses, the company foregoes marketing property casualty insurance in California, reviews aggregate exposures to huge disasters and monitors its exposure in certain coastal regions. The company has catastrophe exposure to: Hurricanes in the gulf and southeastern coastal regions Earthquakes in the New Madrid fault zone, which lies within the central Mississippi valley, extending from northeast Arkansas through southeast Missouri, western Tennessee and western Kentucky to southern Illinois and southern Indiana Tornado, wind and hail in the Midwest, Southeast and mid Atlantic regions The company uses the Risk Management Solutions and Applied Insurance Research models to evaluate exposures to a once in 250 year event in determining appropriate reinsurance coverage programs. Reinsurance mitigates the risk of these highly uncertain exposures and limits the maximum net loss that can arise from large risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure. In conjunction with these activities, the company also continues to explore and analyze credible scientific evidence, including the impact of global climate change, which may affect its exposure under insurance policies. Managements decisions regarding the appropriate level of property casualty risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in the companys underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions. See Item 1, Reinsurance, Page 6, for a discussion of the companys 2005 reinsurance treaties. Asset Impairment Fixed income and equity investments are the companys largest assets. Certain estimates and assumptions made by management relative to investment portfolio assets are critical. The companys asset impairment committee continually monitors investments and all other assets for signs of other than temporary and or permanent impairment. Among other signs, the committee monitors significant decreases in the market value of the assets, changes in legal factors or in the business climate, an accumulation of costs in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset, uncollectability of all other assets, or other factors such as bankruptcy, deterioration of creditworthiness, failure to pay interest or dividends or signs indicating that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of the companys impairment policy resulted in other than temporary impairment charges and write offs of investments that reduced the companys income before income taxes by $6 million, $80 million and $98 million in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Other than temporary impairment in the value of securities is defined by the company as declines in valuation that meet specific criteria established in the asset impairment policy. Such declines often occur in conjunction with events taking place in the overall economy and market, combined with events specific to the industry or operations of the issuing corporation. These specific criteria include a declining trend in market value, the extent of the market value decline and the length of time the value of the security has been depressed, as well as subjective measures such as pending events and issuer liquidity. Generally, these declines in valuation are greater than might be anticipated when viewed in the context of overall economic and market conditions. See Investment Portfolio, Page 53, for information regarding valuation of the invested assets. Impairment charges are recorded for other than temporary declines in value, if, in the asset impairment committees judgment, there is little expectation that the value will be recouped in the foreseeable future. The impairment policy defines a security as distressed when it is trading below 70 percent of book value or has a Moodys or Standard Poors credit rating below B3/B . Distressed securities are monitored as potentially impaired. The security may be written down in the event of a declining market value for four consecutive quarters with quarter end market value below 50 percent of book value, or when a securitys market value is 50 percent below book value for three consecutive quarters. A sudden and severe drop in market value that does not otherwise meet the above criteria is reviewed for possible immediate impairment. Notwithstanding the above, the companys portfolio managers constantly 2004 10 K Page 27 Table of Contents monitor the status of their assigned portfolios for indications of potential problems or issues that may be possible impairment issues. If an impairment indicator is noted, the portfolio managers even more closely scrutinize the security. When evaluating other than temporary impairments, the committee considers the companys ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover a significant percentage of cost. Because of the companys investment philosophy and strong capitalization, it can hold securities that have the potential to recover value until their scheduled redemption, when they might otherwise be deemed impaired. Investment assets that have already been impaired are evaluated based on their adjusted book value and further written down, if deemed appropriate. The decision to sell or write down an asset with impairment indications reflects, at least in part, managements opinion that the security no longer meets the companys investment expectations. See Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, Unrealized Investment Gains and Losses, Page 66, for detailed information regarding securities trading in a continuous loss position at December 31, 2004. Other than temporary declines in the fair value of investments are recognized in net income as realized losses at the time when facts and circumstances indicate such write downs are warranted. Permanent impairment charges (write offs) are defined as those for which management believes there is little potential for future recovery, for example, following the bankruptcy of the issuing corporation. These permanent declines in the fair value of investments are written off at the time when facts and circumstances indicate such write downs are warranted, and they are reflected in realized losses. Other than temporary and permanent impairments are distinct from the ordinary fluctuations seen in the value of a security when considered in the context of overall economic and market conditions. Securities considered to have a temporary decline would be expected to recover their market value, which may be at maturity, or are fixed income securities that the company intends to hold until maturity. Under the same accounting treatment as market value gains, temporary declines (changes in the fair value of these securities) are reflected on the companys balance sheet in other comprehensive income, net of tax, and have no impact on reported net income. Life Insurance Policy Reserves Reserves for traditional life insurance policies are based on expected expenses, mortality, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for adverse deviation. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. Expected mortality is derived primarily from industry experience. Withdrawal rates are based on company and industry experience, while investment yield is based on company experience and the economic conditions then in effect. Reserves for the companys universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts are equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Employee Benefit Plan The company has a defined benefit pension plan covering substantially all employees. Contributions and pension costs are developed from annual actuarial valuations. These valuations involve key assumptions including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated each year. Any adjustments to these assumptions are based on considerations of current market conditions. Therefore, changes in the related pension costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in assumptions. The key assumptions used in developing the 2004 net pension expense were a 6.0 percent discount rate, an 8.0 percent expected return on plan assets and rates of compensation increases ranging from 5 percent to 7 percent, depending on the age of the employee. The 8.0 percent return on plan assets assumption is based on the fact that substantially all of the investments held by the pension plan are common stocks that pay annual dividends. Management believes this rate is representative of the expected long term rate of return on these assets. These assumptions were consistent with the prior year except that the discount rate was reduced by one half of one percent due to current market conditions. In 2004, the net pension expense was $9 million. In 2005, the company expects a net pension expense of $12 million, primarily as a result of a 0.5 percent reduction in the discount rate and increased service costs. Holding all other assumptions constant, a one half of one percent increase or decrease in the discount rate would have increased or decreased the companys 2004 net income before income taxes by $1 million. Likewise, a one half of one percent increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have increased or decreased 2004 income before income taxes by $1 million. In addition, the fair value of the plan assets exceeded the accumulated benefit obligation by $16 million at December 31, 2004, and by $21 million at December 31, 2003. The fair value of the plan assets was less than the projected plan benefit obligation by $41 million at December 31, 2004, and by $29 million at December 31, 2003. Market conditions and interest rates significantly affect future assets and liabilities of the pension plan. The company expects to contribute approximately $10 million to its pension plan in 2005. 2004 10 K Page 28 Table of Contents Deferred Acquisition Costs The company establishes a deferred asset for costs that vary with and are primarily related to acquiring property casualty and life business. These costs are principally agent commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting costs, which are deferred and amortized into income as premiums are earned. Deferred acquisition costs have grown in line with the growth in premiums. Underlying assumptions are updated periodically to reflect actual experience. Changes in the amounts or timing of estimated future profits could result in adjustments to the accumulated amortization of these costs. For property casualty policies, deferred costs are amortized over the terms of the policies. For life policies, acquisition costs are amortized into income either over the premium paying period of the policies or the life of the policy, depending on the policy type. Contingent Commission Accrual Another significant estimate relates to the companys accrual for contingent (profit sharing) commissions. Management bases the contingent commission accrual estimates on property casualty underwriting results and on supplemental property casualty information. Contingent commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account overall agency profitability and other factors, such as prompt monthly payment of amounts due to the company. Due to the complexity of the calculation and the variety of factors that can affect contingent commissions for an individual agency, the amount accrued can differ from the actual contingent commissions paid. The contingent commission accrual of $104 million in 2004 contributed 3.5 percentage points to the property casualty combined ratio. If commissions paid were to vary from that amount by 5 percent, it would affect 2005 net income by $3 million, or 2 cents per share, and the combined ratio by approximately 0.2 percentage points. Separate Accounts The company issues life contracts, referred to as bank owned life insurance policies (BOLI). Based on the specific contract provisions, the assets and liabilities for some BOLIs are legally segregated and recorded as assets and liabilities of the separate accounts. Other BOLIs are included in the general account. For separate account BOLIs, minimum investment returns and account values are guaranteed by the company and also include death benefits to beneficiaries of the contract holders. Separate account assets are carried at fair value. Separate account liabilities primarily represent the contract holders claims to the related assets and also are carried at the fair value of the assets. Generally, investment income and realized investment gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contract holders and, therefore, are not included in the companys Consolidated Statements of Income. However, each separate account contract includes a negotiated realized gain and loss sharing arrangement with the company. This share is transferred from the separate account to the companys general account and is recognized as revenue or expense. In the event that the asset value of contract holders accounts is projected below the value guaranteed by the company, a liability is established through a charge to the companys earnings. In the companys most significant separate account written in 1999, realized gains and losses are retained in the separate account and are deferred and amortized to the contract holder over a five year period, subject to certain limitations. Upon termination or maturity of this separate account contract, any unamortized deferred gains and or losses will revert to the general account. In the event this separate account holder were to exchange the contract for the policy of another carrier, there would be a surrender charge equal to 10 percent of the contracts account value during the first five years. Beginning in year six, the surrender charge decreases 2 percent a year to 0 percent in year 11. At December 31, 2004, net unamortized realized losses amounted to $1 million. In accordance with this separate account agreement, the investment assets must meet certain criteria established by the regulatory authorities to whose jurisdiction the group contract holder is subject. Therefore, sales of investments may be mandated to maintain compliance with these regulations, possibly requiring gains or losses to be recorded, and charged to the general account. Potentially, losses could be material; however, unrealized losses at December 31, 2004, in the separate account portfolio were less than $1 million. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, for information regarding recent accounting pronouncements. Management has determined that recent accounting pronouncements have not had nor are they expected to have any material impact on the companys consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 123(R), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation, and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25. Among other items, SFAS No. 123(R) eliminates the use of APB Opinion No. 25 and the intrinsic value method of accounting and requires companies to recognize the cost of associate services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, based on the grant date fair value of those awards, in the financial statements. The effective date of SFAS No. 123(R) is the first reporting period beginning after June 15, 2005, which is the third quarter of 2005 for the company, although early adoption is allowed. 2004 10 K Page 29 Table of Contents SFAS No. 123(R) permits companies to adopt its requirements using either a modified prospective or a modified retrospective method. Under the modified prospective method, the compensation cost is recognized in the financial statements beginning with the effective date, based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123(R) for all share based payments granted after that date, and based on the requirements of SFAS No. 123 for all unvested awards granted prior to the effective date of SFAS No. 123(R). Under the modified retrospective method, the requirements are the same as under the modified prospective method, but this method also permits companies to restate financial statements of previous periods based on pro forma disclosures made is accordance with SFAS No. 123. The company currently utilizes a standard option pricing model (binomial option pricing model) to measure the fair value of stock options granted to associates. While SFAS No. 123(R) permits companies to continue to use such a model, the standard also permits the use of a lattice model. The company has not yet determined which model it will use to measure the fair value of associate stock options upon the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The company currently expects to adopt SFAS 123(R) effective July 1, 2005; however, the company has not yet determined which of the adoption methods it will use. Subject to a complete review of the requirements of SFAS No. 123(R), based on stock options granted to associates through January 2005, the company expects the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) on July 1, 2005, will reduce both third quarter and fourth quarter 2005 net income per share by approximately 2 cents per share. In March 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ratified the consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force in Issue 03 1, The Meaning of Other Than Temporary Impairments and Its Applications to Certain Investments (EITF 03 1). The EITF reached a consensus on an other than temporary impairment model for debt and equity securities accounted for under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, and cost method investments. The basic model developed to evaluate whether an investment within the scope of Issue 03 1 is other than temporarily impaired involves a three step process including: determining whether an investment is impaired (fair value less amortized cost); evaluating whether the impairment is other than temporary; and requiring recognition of an impairment equal to the difference between the investments cost and fair value. In September 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position (FSP) No. EITF Issue 03 1 1, Effective Date of Paragraphs 10 20 of EITF Issue No. 03 01. This FSP delayed the effective date of the measurement and recognition guidance contained in paragraphs 10 20 of Issue 03 1 and, as of February 25, 2005, the FASB had not yet issued guidance on the adoption or effective date of FSP No. EITF Issue 03 1 1. The amount of any other than temporary impairment that may need to be recognized in the future will be dependent on market conditions and managements intent and ability to hold any such impaired securities. 2004 10 K Page 30 Table of Contents Results of Operations Overview Cincinnati Financial Corporation Consolidated Three year Highlights (Dollars in millions except per share data) 2004 2003 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Revenues $ 3,614 $ 3,181 $ 2,843 13.6 11.9 Net income 584 374 238 56.0 57.0 Per share data (diluted): Net income $ 3.44 $ 2.20 $ 1.39 56.4 57.5 Book value $ 37.38 $ 36.85 $ 33.00 1.4 11.7 Return on equity 9.4 % 6.3 % 4.1 % Return on equity based on comprehensive income 4.6 % 13.8 % (4.0 %) The consolidated results of operations reflect the operating results of each of the companys four segments along with parent company and other non insurance activities. The four segments are: Commercial lines property casualty insurance Personal lines property casualty insurance Life insurance Investments operations Highlights of the consolidated results for the past three years include: Revenues Revenue growth accelerated over the three year period on strong property casualty performance, continued growth in investment income and realized gains in 2004 versus realized losses in 2003 and 2002. Earned premium growth slowed over the three years as commercial lines pricing increases continued, but at a lower rate, and personal lines premium growth slowed, primarily due to lower new business levels. The companys emphasis on common stock holdings with an increasing flow of dividend payments has led to continued growth of investment income. In addition, the company allocated virtually 100 percent of new investment dollars to fixed income securities during most of 2004, adding to investment income growth. Net income Net income rose 56.0 percent in 2004 and 57.0 percent in 2003. In each of the past three years, the companys total benefits and expenses have grown less rapidly than revenues, as managements strategies to improve profitability have taken effect. Strong property casualty underwriting profit in 2004 and 2003 led to a higher effective tax rate. Book value Book value was $37.38 at year end 2004 up slightly from year end 2003 as higher net income was offset by lower unrealized investment gains. Comprehensive income Accumulated other comprehensive income, which includes the accumulated unrealized gains on investments, declined by $297 million in 2004, gained $441 million in 2003 and declined $470 million in 2002. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for additional information on the investment portfolio and see Shareholders Equity, Page 62, for information on unrealized gains and losses. Return on equity improved for the third consecutive year while return on equity based on comprehensive income was 4.6 percent in 2004 compared with 13.8 percent in 2003 and negative 4.0 percent in 2002. Other considerations When evaluating ongoing business operations, management takes the following into consideration: Realized investment gains and losses A significant factor in the growth rate of net income in any year can be realized investment gains and losses. Management believes it is important to carefully consider the impact of these gains and losses on net income when evaluating the companys primary business areas: property casualty insurance and life insurance. Management believes the level of realized investment gains and losses for any particular period, while it may be material, may obscure the performance of ongoing underlying business operations in that period. While realized investment gains and losses are integral to the companys insurance operations over the long term, the determination to recognize gains or losses in any period may be subject to managements discretion and is independent of the insurance underwriting process. Moreover, under applicable accounting requirements, gains and losses can be recognized from certain changes in market values of securities without actual realization. In the three year period, the after tax impact of realized investment gains and losses was to raise net income by $60 million, or 36 cents per share, in 2004. Realized investment gains and losses reduced net income by $27 million, or 16 cents, in 2003, and by $62 million, or 36 cents, in 2002. The company reported net realized investment gains in 2004 primarily because of the sale of equity securities. Net realized investment losses were lower in 2003 than 2002 as other than temporary impairment charges declined due to the economic and market 2004 10 K Page 31 Table of Contents recovery and as net gains on the sale of securities rose to a higher level (see Investment Results of Operations, Page 47, for additional information on net realized investment gains and losses, including the equity securities sold during 2004). Software recovery In 2003, the company recovered $23 million pretax from a settlement negotiated with a vendor. The recovery added $15 million, or 9 cents per share, to net income. The negotiated settlement related to the $39 million one time, pretax charge incurred in 2000 to write off previously capitalized software development costs. Uninsured motorist/underinsured motorist (UM/UIM) reserve release Following the Ohio Supreme Courts late 2003 decision to limit its 1999 Scott Pontzer v. Liberty Mutual decision, the company released $38 million pretax of previously established UM/UIM reserves, adding $25 million, or 15 cents per share, to net income in 2003. In 2004, the company reviewed outstanding UM/UIM claims for which litigation was pending. Those claims represented approximately $37 million in previously established case reserves. During the first quarter of 2004, the company filed motions for dismissal in various jurisdictions for specific claims and released an additional $32 million in related case reserves. The reserve releases in 2004 added $21 million, or 12 cents per share, to net income. Following the release of those reserves, the company stopped separately reporting on UM/UIM related reserve actions. See Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Page 55, for additional information regarding UM/UIM reserves. Option expense Pro forma option expense as disclosed in a Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, would have reduced earnings per share by 7 cents in both 2004 and 2003 and 8 cents in 2002. Effects of inflation Management does not believe that inflation has had a material effect on consolidated results of operations, except to the extent that inflation may affect interest rates and claim costs. Outlook Over the long term, managements objective is to achieve steady growth while performing as an industry profitability leader. Based on its outlook for the insurance and investment markets and its progress in implementing operating strategies, management has established certain performance targets for 2005: Property casualty written premium growth in the mid single digits. The companys outlook is based on comments from various agencies and production results, market intelligence from the companys field marketing representatives and account retention trends, as well as staffing of new marketing territories and plans for new agency appointments. Combined ratio for the property casualty insurance operations in the range of 91 percent, assuming catastrophe losses are a more normal 3.5 percentage points on the combined ratio. Management anticipates that the commercial lines combined ratio will be in the range of 90 percent and the personal lines combined ratio will be in the range of 95 percent, marking a return to profitability for this segment. The consolidated target also assumes that favorable loss reserve development will be in line with historical levels. Investment income growth of 5 percent to 6 percent pretax due in part to the investment of a greater percentage of available cash flow in fixed income securities during most of 2004 and the first half of 2005. Management expects the impact of these anticipated strong operating results will be tempered in 2005 by the adoption of option expensing and slightly higher interest expense on long term debt, which increased modestly with the November 2004 issue of $375 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes due 2034. The company will adopt SFAS No. 123(R), Share Based Payment, which calls for stock option expense to be included as a component of net income, in the third quarter of 2005. Pro forma option expense as disclosed in Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, would have reduced earnings per share by 7 cents in both 2004 and 2003 and 8 cents in 2002. A series of winter storms across the Midwest and Northeast during January 2005 caused approximately $5 million in catastrophe losses for policyholders. As previously announced, management estimates that first quarter 2005 results will include an initial reserve of $22 million, net of reinsurance, for a single large loss in January that was insufficiently covered through its facultative reinsurance programs. Managements performance targets for 2005 take these events into account. Due to hurricane activity during 2004, management anticipates that there will be assessments for windpools in Florida and other states. The company has received only preliminary information on these potential assessments and at this time believes the potential impact of any assessment would be immaterial. Factors supporting managements outlook for 2005 are discussed in the Results of Operations for each of the four business segments. 2004 10 K Page 32 Table of Contents Segment Results of Operations As described in Item 8, Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 89, management measures profit or loss for its property casualty and life segments based upon underwriting results. Insurance underwriting results (profit or loss) represent net earned premium less loss and loss expenses and underwriting expenses on a pretax basis. Management also measures aspects of the performance of its commercial lines and personal lines segments on a combined property casualty insurance operations basis. Underwriting results and segment pretax operating income are not a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. For the combined property casualty insurance operations as well as the commercial lines and personal lines segments, statutory accounting data and ratios are key performance indicators that are used by management to assess business trends and to make comparisons to industry results, since GAAP based industry data generally is not readily available. Statutory accounting data and ratios also are key performance indicators for The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company, the life insurance subsidiary. Investments held by the parent company and the related investment portfolios for the property casualty and life insurance subsidiaries are managed and reported as the investments segment, separate from the underwriting businesses. Net investment income and net realized investment gains and losses for the companys investment portfolios are discussed in the investments segment discussion. The following sections review results of operations for the combined property casualty insurance operations and, separately, for each of the companys four reportable segments (see Commercial Lines Results of Operations, Page 35, Personal Lines Results of Operations, Page 40, Life Insurance Results of Operations, Page 45, and Investments Results of Operations, Page 47). Property Casualty Insurance Operations Overview Three year Highlights (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2003 2002 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 2,919 $ 2,653 $ 2,391 10.0 10.9 Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 1,605 1,700 1,658 (5.6 ) 2.6 Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 148 97 87 53.4 10.9 Commission expenses 583 507 442 15.0 14.5 Underwriting expenses 274 194 190 40.6 1.0 Policyholder dividends 11 15 6 (25.0 ) 164.0 Underwriting profit $ 298 $ 140 $ 8 113.3 1,816.5 Combined ratio: Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 55.0 % 64.1 % 69.3 % Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 5.1 3.6 3.6 Loss and loss expenses 60.1 % 67.7 % 72.9 % Commission expenses 20.0 19.1 18.5 Underwriting expenses 9.4 7.3 8.1 Policyholder dividends 0.3 0.6 0.2 Combined ratio 89.8 % 94.7 % 99.7 % Within the property casualty insurance market, the company offers both commercial and personal policies through a network of independent agencies. Highlights of the performance for the combined property casualty insurance operations included: Earned premiums Over the past three years, strong insurance industry pricing and its relationships with independent agencies have permitted the company to obtain adequate premiums on new and renewal business. The rate of increase for commercial lines earned premiums slowed over the three year period, reflecting changing market conditions, while the rate of increase for personal lines earned premium reflected higher rates offset by declining new business activity. To restore affected layers of property catastrophe reinsurance programs, the company incurred $11 million in reinsurance reinstatement premiums in 2004, reducing net earned premium growth by 0.4 percentage points. The growth in earned premium reflected the competitive characteristics discussed in Item 1, Property Casualty Insurance Operations, Page 1, including a case by case approach to new business and account renewals. While insisting on adequate premiums for covered exposures, the company continues to do business the way it always has; on the local level, focusing on each relationship separately. Commercial lines pricing remained flexible to respond to each risk in cooperation with local agents, who are in a position to know their market and their business. The company believes that this approach results in more high quality accounts over the long term, further solidifies its relationships with independent agencies and establishes a basis for continued growth. 2004 10 K Page 33 Table of Contents The company has been more aggressively identifying and measuring exposures to match coverage amounts and premiums to the risk. Where this matching is not possible, accounts are not being renewed unless there are mitigating factors. Agents tell the company they agree on the need to carefully select risks and assure pricing adequacy. They appreciate the time the companys associates invest in creating solutions for their clients while protecting profitability, whether that means working on an individual case or developing modified policy terms and conditions that preserve flexibility, choice and other sales advantages. Growth also has reflected the efforts to improve customer service through the creation of smaller marketing territories, permitting local field marketing representatives to devote more time to each independent agency. The average net earned premium per territory rose 4.7 percent in 2004 to $33 million, 7.8 percent in 2003 to $32 million and 5.0 percent to $29 million in 2002. The companys success has been built on frontline decision making. The company expects to continue to strengthen its relationships with agencies with technology that brings agencies greater efficiencies while permitting associates to spend more time with people and less with paper. Management considers statutory net written premium growth to be a key performance indicator, since it can be used to compare the companys growth to industry performance, allowing the company to evaluate the success of its strategies. The estimated industry growth rate was 4.8 percent, 9.5 percent and 14.7 percent in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The companys statutory net written premiums rose 6.5 percent in 2004. The companys 2004 statutory net written premium growth rate was reduced by 0.4 percentage points due to the reinsurance reinstatement premium. The companys statutory net written premiums on an adjusted basis rose 11.7 percent in 2003 and 14.0 percent in 2002. The companys 2003 and 2002 statutory net written premium growth rates were adjusted for the effect of a refinement adopted in 2002 of the companys estimation process for matching written premiums to policy effective dates. Underwriting results and combined ratio For the third consecutive year, combined property casualty underwriting performance improved on a year over year basis as the result of growth in premiums, in particular more adequate premium per policy, and the benefits of other underwriting efforts. The improvement in the combined ratio was largely driven by a lower loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes. Premium growth has been the most significant factor in the improvement in the loss and loss expense ratio. The 2004 ratio also benefited from higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years as well as UM/UIM reserve releases. The 2003 ratio benefited from UM/UIM reserve releases. Other factors are covered in the commercial lines and personal lines segment discussions below. The loss and loss expense ratio improvement was offset by: o Higher catastrophe loss ratio in 2004. Total catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, were $148 million for 2004 compared with $97 million in 2003 and $87 million in 2002. The catastrophe losses contributed 5.1 percentage points to the property casualty combined ratio in 2004 compared with 3.6 percentage points in 2003 and 2002. o Increase in the commission expense ratio. Commission expense rose more rapidly than premiums primarily because of the companys profit sharing commission program. Profit sharing, or contingent, commissions are calculated on the profitability of an agencys aggregate book of business, taking into account longer term profit, with a percentage for prompt payment of premiums and other criteria. In 2004, profit sharing commission expense contributed 3.5 percentage points, reflecting the substantial growth in the underwriting profit to $298 million. In 2003, profit sharing commission expense contributed 2.2 percentage points, reflecting the 2003 underwriting profit of $117 million before the software recovery. In 2002, these commissions contributed 0.9 percentage points to the combined ratio, as the company incurred a small underwriting profit. o Increase in the underwriting expense ratio. Underwriting expenses have risen more rapidly than premiums due to higher salary expense, largely due to increases in underwriting department staffing, and higher technology related costs. The software recovery reduced the 2003 underwriting expense ratio by 0.8 percentage points. On a statutory basis, the 2004 property casualty combined ratio was 89.4 percent, including a 1.1 percentage point benefit from the UM/UIM reserve release. The 2003 property casualty statutory combined ratio of 95.0 percent before the software recovery, included a 1.4 percentage point benefit from the UM/UIM reserve release, and compared with 99.6 percent in 2002, before the effect of Codification. The industry average statutory combined ratios are estimated at 97.6 percent, 100.1 percent and 107.4 percent for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The favorable comparison of this key performance indicator to industry trends highlights the success of the companys strategies. The discussion of the commercial lines and personal lines segments provides additional detail regarding these strategies and trends. 2004 10 K Page 34 Table of Contents Commercial Lines Results of Operations Overview Three year Highlights Performance highlights for the commercial lines segment include: Earned premiums The primary source of growth in the past three years has been higher pricing on new and renewal commercial business and insurance to value initiatives, more than offsetting the companys deliberate decisions not to write or renew certain business and the loss of some smaller accounts due to competition. The reinsurance reinstatement premiums allocated to commercial lines reduced net earned premium growth for 2004 by 0.3 percentage points. During this three year period, the company has experienced little growth in overall commercial lines policy counts. This has reflected the companys re underwriting of the existing book of business and its insistence on obtaining adequate premium for the covered risks. Profitability Since 2002, improvement in commercial lines profitability has primarily been driven by more adequate premiums per policy as well as underwriting actions taken. Results for 2004 also benefited from higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years, including the benefit of the UM/UIM reserve release, which reduced the ratio by 1.5 percentage points (see Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Commercial Lines Segment Reserves, Page 56, for information regarding loss reserve development for the commercial lines segment). The 2003 combined ratio included the benefits of the UM/UIM reserve release and the software recovery, which reduced the ratio by 2.0 percentage points and 0.8 percentage points, respectively. Growth In the seven states in which the company had at least $100 million in commercial lines agency direct earned premiums in 2004, premiums were $1.320 billion in 2004. In these states, premiums grew 10.0 percent in 2004. In the remaining 24 states, agency direct earned premiums were $905 million in 2004. In these states, premiums rose 15.2 percent in 2004. The stronger growth rate in the smaller states reflected the opportunities available to the company in less penetrated markets. Management considers new business measures to be a key indicator of the success of its competitive strategies. Locally based field marketing representatives lead the new business effort, working with agencies to underwrite and price business using personal and direct knowledge of the risk and competitive environment. In 2004, commercial lines new business premiums written directly by agencies rose 5.2 percent to a record $282 million due to strong new business trends in the first half of the year. In 2003, commercial new business premiums rose 6.8 percent to $268 million. In 2002, new business premiums rose 14.4 percent to $251 million. The lower 2004 and 2003 growth rates reflected the companys pricing discipline. The growth rate in 2004 also reflected the slowing of premium increases industrywide. Commercial Lines Results 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 2,126 $ 1,908 $ 1,721 11.4 10.8 Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 1,083 1,176 1,170 (7.9 ) 0.5 Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 71 42 40 68.9 6.6 Commission expenses 423 361 315 17.1 14.6 Underwriting expenses 200 147 131 36.8 10.3 Policyholder dividends 11 15 6 (25.0 ) 164.0 Underwriting profit $ 338 $ 167 $ 59 102.3 184.5 Combined ratio: Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 50.9 % 61.6 % 68.0 % Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 3.4 2.2 2.3 Loss and loss expenses 54.3 % 63.8 % 70.3 % Commission expenses 19.9 18.9 18.3 Underwriting expenses 9.4 7.7 7.7 Policyholder dividends 0.5 0.8 0.3 Combined ratio 84.1 % 91.2 % 96.6 % Profitability In addition to seeking more adequate premium per exposure over the past three years, the company has focused on longer term efforts to enhance profitability. These have included identifying the exposures the company has for each risk and making sure it offers appropriate coverages, terms and conditions and limits of insurance. The company continues to develop new underwriting guidelines, to re underwrite books of business with selected agencies and to update policy terms and conditions, where necessary. In addition, the company continues to leverage its strong local presence. Field marketing representatives have met with every agency to reaffirm agreements on the extent of frontline 2004 10 K Page 35 Table of Contents renewal underwriting to be performed by local agencies. Loss control, machinery and equipment and field claims representatives have been conducting on site inspections. Field claims representatives prepare full risk reports on every account reporting a loss above $100,000 or on any risk of concern. Multi departmental task forces have implemented programs to address concerns for specific areas such as contractor and commercial auto risks. These actions have helped to address rising loss severity. The significant components of expenses for the commercial lines segment are described below. Loss and Loss Expenses (excluding catastrophe losses) Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve additions for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. As a result of the underwriting actions noted above, which have led to higher premiums on a relatively stable level of exposure, loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes declined over the three year period. A primary reason for the improvement in the ratio between 2004 and 2003 was higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years (see Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Commercial Lines Segment Reserves, Page 56, for information regarding loss reserve development for the commercial lines segment). The favorable development was largely due to the claims departments initiative, begun in 2001, to establish higher initial case reserves on liability claims in the period when the claim is reported. UM/UIM reserve releases contributed 1.5 percentage points to the loss and loss expense ratio in 2004 and 2.0 percentage points in 2003. Management monitors incurred losses by size of loss, business line, risk category, geographic region, agency, field marketing territory and duration of policyholder relationship, addressing concentrations or trends as needed. Analysis indicated no significant concentrations beyond that seen in higher loss ratios for certain business lines, which management believes it has addressed. Management also measures new losses and case reserve adjustments greater than $250,000 to track frequency and severity. New losses greater than $1 million, new losses between $250,000 and $1 million and case reserve increases greater than $250,000, declined as a percentage of earned premiums in each of the past three years. Commercial Lines Losses by Size 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Losses $1 million or more $ 80 $ 89 $ 90 (9.5 ) (0.9 ) Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 103 117 123 (11.9 ) (4.9 ) Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 133 121 121 9.9 (0.4 ) Other losses 536 608 622 (11.8 ) (2.3 ) Total losses incurred excluding catastrophe losses $ 852 $ 935 $ 956 (8.8 ) (2.3 ) Catastrophe losses 71 42 40 68.9 6.6 Total losses $ 923 $ 977 $ 996 (5.4 ) (1.9 ) As a percent of earned premiums: Losses $1 million or more 3.8 % 4.6 % 5.2 % Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 4.9 6.2 7.2 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 6.2 6.3 7.0 Other losses 25.2 31.9 36.1 Loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses 40.1 % 49.0 % 55.5 % Catastrophe loss ratio 3.3 2.2 2.3 Total loss ratio 43.4 % 51.2 % 57.8 % 2004 10 K Page 36 Table of Contents Catastrophe Loss and Loss Expenses Commercial lines catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and before taxes, were $71 million in 2004 compared with $42 million in 2003 and $40 million in 2002. The following table shows losses incurred, net of reinsurance, and subsequent development, for catastrophe losses in each of the past three years. (Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Incurred in calendar year ended December 31, Occurance year Cause of loss Region 2004 2003 2002 2004 May Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic $ 1 May Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic 11 July Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic 7 August Hurricane Charley South 16 September Hurricane Frances South 4 September Hurricane Jeanne South, Mid Atlantic 4 September Hurrican Ivan South, Midwest, Mid Atlantic 21 December Wind, ice snow, freezing Midwest 5 Others 3 Total 72 2003 April Wind, hail Midwest (2 ) $ 5 May Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 17 July Wind, hail Midwest 2 2 July Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 6 September Wind Mid Atlantic 0 5 November Wind Midwest, Mid Atlantic (1 ) 5 Others 0 (1 ) Total (1 ) 39 2002 March Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 $ 5 April Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 2 April Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 0 16 June Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 3 September Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 6 November Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 1 5 Others 0 2 3 Total 0 3 40 Calendar year total $ 71 $ 42 $ 40 Commission Expenses Commission expense as a percent of earned premium rose by 1.0 percentage points in 2004 and 0.6 percentage points in 2003 as contingent (profit based) commissions increased because of strong recent results. The company relies on its independent agencies as frontline underwriters who know the businesses and individuals in their communities. Underwriting Expenses Non commission expenses rose to 9.4 percent of earned premium in 2004 from 7.7 percent in 2003 and 2002. The increase in 2004 reflected higher salary expense and technology related costs partially offset by continued refinements in the companys cost allocation processes between commercial lines and personal lines. In 2003 the ratio of underwriting expenses to earned premiums was reduced by 0.8 percentage points due to the software recovery. Policyholder Dividends Policyholder dividend expense was 0.5 percent of earned premium in 2004 compared with 0.8 percent in 2003 and 0.3 percent in 2002. 2004 10 K Page 37 Table of Contents Line of Business Analysis (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2003 2002 Calendar year 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Commercial multi peril: Earned premium $ 751 $ 673 $ 607 11.6 10.9 Loss and loss expenses incurred 469 442 422 6.1 4.7 Loss and loss expenses ratio 62.4 % 65.6 % 69.5 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 54.9 59.9 63.5 Workers compensation: Earned premium $ 313 $ 293 $ 294 6.8 (0.5 ) Loss and loss expenses incurred 251 235 235 6.6 0.1 Loss and loss expenses ratio 80.3 % 80.5 % 80.0 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 80.3 80.5 80.0 Commercial auto: Earned premium $ 450 $ 419 $ 383 7.4 9.3 Loss and loss expenses incurred 236 240 259 (1.8 ) (7.2 ) Loss and loss expenses ratio 52.4 % 57.3 % 67.5 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 52.1 56.5 66.7 Other liability: Earned premium $ 402 $ 342 $ 276 17.6 24.1 Loss and loss expenses incurred 116 183 214 (36.8 ) (14.5 ) Loss and loss expenses ratio 28.8 % 53.6 % 77.8 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 28.8 53.6 77.8 Accident year 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Loss and loss expenses incurred: Commercial multi peril $ 465 $ 434 $ 417 $ 411 $ 398 Workers compensation 236 218 228 227 202 Commercial auto 283 266 252 243 241 Other liability 247 225 162 124 130 Loss and loss expenses incurred ratio: Commercial multi peril 61.9 % 64.4 % 68.7 % 76.7 % 85.9 % Workers compensation 75.4 74.3 77.5 90.0 97.1 Commercial auto 62.9 63.5 65.8 76.0 90.9 Other liability 61.3 65.9 58.8 57.4 63.3 In total the commercial multi peril, workers compensation, commercial auto and other liability lines of business accounted for 90.1 percent of total commercial lines earned premium compared with 90.5 percent in 2003 and 90.5 percent in 2002. Approximately 95 percent of the companys commercial lines premiums are written as packages, providing accounts with coverages from more than one business line. The company believes that its commercial lines area is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. For reference, however, the table above and discussion below summarizes growth and profitability trends separately for each of the four primary business lines. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of accident year incurred loss and loss expenses for the past five years. Accident year data shows the year in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid. Over the past three years, results for the business lines within the commercial lines segment have reflected the companys emphasis on underwriting and obtaining adequate pricing for the covered risk, as discussed above. Additional detail regarding reserve development is provided in Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Commercial Lines Segment Reserves, Page 56. Commercial Multi peril The company wrote a higher than normal number of one year policies in 2002 pending regulatory approval for changes in policy terms and conditions (see Item 1, Commercial Lines Segment, Page 9, for a discussion of one and three year policies). In addition to industrywide slowing in premium growth, this decision decelerated the 2003 growth rate for the companys commercial multi peril business line as some liability coverages previously written in premium discounted packages were moved to non discounted policies in 2003. Many non discounted policies are included in the companys other liability line of business. The loss and loss expense ratio declined steadily over the three year period. Commercial multi peril is the companys single largest business line, and management believes this business lines loss data are the best indicators of the success of the growth and underwriting actions that have been implemented in the past three years. The 2004 calendar year ratio improved even though catastrophe losses were slightly higher than 2003 and $4 million in 2004 10 K Page 38 Table of Contents liability reserve strengthening in 2004 offset the improvement by 0.6 percentage points. Higher general liability base rates were effective in most states during 2003. This contributed to further improvement in the loss and loss expense ratio in 2004 and 2003. Reserve strengthening increased the ratio by 2.0 percentage points in 2003 and 1.0 percentage points in 2002. Workers Compensation Conditions within the workers compensation market remained stable in 2004 after improving between 1999 and 2003 as market pricing rose in most states, albeit offset by continued rising trends in loss severity. As indicated by the rapid rise in premium volume of state pools for workers compensation, many carriers chose to exit significant portions of this line of business. While the company remains highly selective about the risks covered, workers compensation is available as part of package policies for commercial lines policyholders, maintaining the companys competitive position in selected states. Workers compensation has a lower commission ratio and higher breakeven point than the other commercial business lines. Growth in 2004 was primarily due to higher rates. In 2003 and 2002 the company chose not to renew selected policies where it believed the aggregate terrorism exposure risk was excessive. Any new or renewal policy covering 200 or more employees at any one location received added scrutiny as the company sought to manage risk aggregation. On the basis of new business premiums written directly by agents, new workers compensation premiums increased 18.8 percent in 2004 and 5.9 percent in 2003 after declining 17.4 percent in 2002. Total workers compensation earned premiums were unchanged between 2003 and 2002 as rate increases offset a decline in policy count due to the re underwriting effort. The workers compensation loss and loss expense ratio has been steady for three years. Overall pricing increases for new and renewed risks and underwriting actions have helped stabilize the accident year loss ratio in the mid 70 percent range for the most recent three years compared with the higher level of 2000 and 2001. The loss and loss expense ratio reflected $16 million in reserve strengthening in 2004, primarily due to medical cost trends, $13 million in 2003 and $9 million in 2002. Commercial Auto Commercial auto premium growth trends reflected the factors influencing overall commercial lines performance, with the primary driver being price increases. Commercial auto, one of the commercial lines coverage areas for which the company prices coverage on an annual basis, frequently is one of the first lines to experience pricing pressure because it often represents the largest portion of insurance costs for commercial policyholders. In the past several years, the company accelerated efforts to improve commercial auto underwriting and rate levels, making certain that vehicle use was properly classified. As a result of those actions and moderating industry wide severity and frequency trends, the loss and loss expense ratio for commercial auto improved in each of the past three years. Further, new and revised underwriting guidelines are being used to assure accurate classification and pricing. The UM/UIM reserve releases had their most substantial impact on the commercial auto line, lowering the 2004 loss and loss expense ratio by 4.6 percentage points and the 2003 loss and loss expense ratio by 6.9 percentage points. Including the UM/UIM reserve releases in 2004 and 2003, the 2004 ratio benefited 10.5 percentage points from higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years, the 2003 ratio benefited by 8.8 percentage points and the 2002 ratio benefited by 4.0 percentage points. Other Liability Earned premium growth for the other liability line (commercial umbrella, commercial general liability and most executive risk policies) continued at a higher pace in 2004 because of the number of policies written in non discounted programs and the continuing rise in liability pricing. The other liability policy count has been stable as growth in the number of non discounted policies has offset declines in other areas, in part due to a change that allowed umbrella coverages to be endorsed to a primary policy rather than be written separately. Director and officer coverage accounted for approximately 13 percent of other liability premium in 2004 and approximately 12 percent in 2003. Director and officer policies are offered primarily to non profit organizations, reducing the risk associated with this line of business. As of December 31, 2004, only four in force director and officer policies were for Fortune 500 companies. Forty two were for publicly traded companies (excluding banks and savings and loans) and 70 were for banks and savings and loans with more than $500 million in assets. In large part because this business line includes umbrella coverages, the calendar year loss and loss expense ratio tends to fluctuate dramatically on a year over year basis. The improvement in the 2004 calendar year loss and loss expense ratio was driven by 2000 through 2003 accident year loss and loss expense ratios 6.5 to 14.7 percentage points below their year ago levels. The 2004 ratio benefited by 32.5 percentage points due to higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years, including 2.0 percentage points from UM/UIM reserve releases. The 2003 ratio benefited by 23.0 percentage points due to favorable development, including 2.6 percentage points due to UM/UIM reserve releases. The 2002 ratio benefited by 8.8 percentage points from favorable development. 2004 10 K Page 39 Table of Contents Commercial Lines Outlook Industry experts currently anticipate industry wide commercial lines written premiums will decline approximately 1 percent in 2005. The company anticipates commercial lines insurance market trends will reflect accelerated competition in 2005 with pressure on pricing from the industrys increasing surplus and improving profitability. During the second half of 2004, agents indicated that renewal price increases were running in the low single digits, with variations by geographic region, class of business and size of account. Aggressive pricing is occurring more frequently for higher quality and for larger accounts although disciplined underwriting appears to be the norm. The company will continue to market its products to a broad range of business classes, price its products adequately and take a package approach. The company intends to maintain its underwriting selectively and to manage carefully its rate levels as well as maintain its programs that seek to accurately match exposures with appropriate premium. The creation of new marketing territories and appointment of new agencies over the next several years also could contribute to commercial lines growth. As a result of these factors, management presently anticipates 2005 commercial lines written premium growth in the mid single digits compared with 7.6 percent in 2004. The company believes it can continue to be a preferred market for its agencies and the types of Main Street businesses they serve by evaluating each risk individually and making decisions regarding rates, the use of three year policies and other policy terms on a case by case basis, even in lines and classes of business that are under competitive pressure. This should allow the company to maintain the positive underlying improvements in profitability that have occurred over the past several years, but management does not believe favorable reserve development will contribute as much in 2005 as it did in 2004. As a result, management currently is estimating a 2005 commercial lines combined ratio in the range of 90 percent compared with 84.1 percent in 2004. Personal Lines Results of Operations Overview Three year Highlights Performance highlights for the personal lines segment include: Earned premiums The primary source of growth in the past three years was rate increases to address premium inadequacy. Rate increases on new and renewal business have offset a decline in policy count in each year. The reinsurance reinstatement premiums allocated to personal lines reduced net earned premium growth for 2004 by 0.8 percentage points. Combined ratio Over the past three years, the combined ratio has reflected an improving loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses. In 2004, the improvement in the loss and loss expense ratio was offset by higher catastrophe losses and rising commission and underwriting expenses over the entire period. In 2003, the improvement also reflected a 2.4 percentage point decline in the underwriting expense ratio, of which 1.1 percentage points were due to the software cost recovery. Growth Personal lines is an important component of the companys overall relationship with many of its agencies and an important component of agency relationships with their clients. In the seven states in which the company wrote $35 million or more in personal lines agency direct earned premiums in 2004, premiums were $621 million in 2004. In these states, premiums grew 6.4 percent in 2004. In the 15 states with less than $35 million in premiums in 2004, agency direct earned premiums grew more rapidly, rising 10.7 percent in 2004 to $194 million. Similar to commercial lines, the stronger growth in the smaller states reflected the opportunities available to the company in less penetrated markets. Personal lines new business premiums written directly by agencies declined 19.9 percent to $48 million in 2004 and 9.3 percent to $60 million in 2003 from a 2002 high of $67 million. The decline in new business in 2004 and 2003 reflected the companys emphasis on underwriting personal lines and factors specific to the personal auto and homeowner business lines, as discussed below. In addition, agencies may be placing less new business with the company until the introduction of Diamond, the new personal lines policy processing system, in their state. Further, the company now understands that the agency learning curve for Diamond may be steeper than anticipated, potentially reducing agency attention to new business efforts in the initial months after the system is introduced in their state. 2004 10 K Page 40 Table of Contents Personal Lines Results 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 793 $ 745 $ 670 6.4 11.2 Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 522 524 488 (0.4 ) 7.7 Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 77 55 47 41.4 14.5 Commission expenses 160 146 127 9.7 14.3 Underwriting expenses 74 47 59 52.1 (19.4 ) Underwriting loss $ (40 ) $ (27 ) $ (51 ) 45.8 (47.1 ) Combined ratio: Loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes 65.9 % 70.3 % 72.6 % Catastrophe loss and loss expenses 9.7 7.3 7.1 Loss and loss expenses 75.6 % 77.6 % 79.7 % Commission expenses 20.1 19.5 19.0 Underwriting expenses 9.3 6.5 8.9 Policyholder dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 Combined ratio 105.0 % 103.6 % 107.6 % Profitability Efforts to improve personal lines profitability have focused on the personal auto and homeowner business lines as discussed below. The significant components of expenses for the personal lines segment are described below. Loss and Loss Expenses (excluding catastrophe losses) Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve additions for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. For personal lines, loss and loss expenses excluding catastrophes were $522 million in 2004 compared with $524 million in 2003 and $487 million in 2002. Loss and loss expenses for personal lines have reflected the industrywide rise in loss severity over the past several years due to escalating medical costs and home values offset by the benefits of underwriting actions and changes in policy terms and conditions. In addition, the loss and loss expense ratio benefited from higher than normal savings due to favorable loss reserve development from prior accident years (see Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Personal Lines Segment Reserves, Page 58, for information regarding loss reserve development for the personal lines segment). Management monitors incurred losses by size of loss, business line, risk category, geographic region, agency, field marketing territory and duration of policyholder relationship, addressing concentrations or trends as needed. Analysis indicated no significant concentrations beyond that seen in higher loss ratios for certain business lines, which management believes it has addressed. Management also measures new losses and case reserve adjustments greater than $250,000 to track frequency and severity. For personal lines, losses greater than $1 million and losses between $250,000 and $1 million have stabilized as a percentage of earned premiums. Case reserve increases greater than $250,000 rose as a percentage of earned premiums in 2004 after declining in 2003. Management remains focused on establishing adequate case reserves at the time a claim is reported. Personal Lines Losses by Size 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Losses $1 million or more $ 17 $ 15 $ 15 14.6 1.4 Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 43 41 35 4.9 15.8 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 21 11 20 83.7 (43.5 ) Other losses 371 391 359 (5.2 ) 9.0 Total losses incurred excluding catastrophe losses $ 452 $ 458 $ 429 (1.4 ) 6.9 Catastrophe losses 77 55 47 41.4 14.6 Total losses $ 529 $ 513 $ 476 3.1 7.7 As a percent of earned premiums: Losses $1 million or more 2.2 % 2.0 % 2.2 % Losses $250 thousand to $1 million 5.4 5.5 5.2 Development and case reserve increases of $250 thousand or more 2.6 1.5 3.0 Other losses 46.8 52.5 53.5 Loss ratio excluding catastrophe losses 57.0 % 61.5 % 63.9 % Catastrophe loss ratio 9.7 7.3 7.1 Total loss ratio 66.7 % 68.8 % 71.0 % 2004 10 K Page 41 Table of Contents Catastrophe Loss and Loss Expenses Personal lines catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance and before taxes, were $77 million in 2004 compared with $55 million in 2003 and $47 million in 2002. The following table shows losses incurred, net of reinsurance, and subsequent development, for catastrophe losses in each of the past three years. (Dollars in millions, net of reinsurance) Incurred in calendar year ended December 31, Occurance year Cause of loss Region 2004 2003 2002 2004 May Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic $ 9 May Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic 20 July Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic 5 August Hurricane Charley South 10 September Hurricane Frances South 7 September Hurricane Jeanne South, Mid Atlantic 2 September Hurrican Ivan South, Midwest, Mid Atlantic 18 December Wind, ice snow, freezing Midwest 8 Others 2 Total 81 2003 April Wind, hail Midwest (2 ) $ 31 May Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 17 July Wind, hail Midwest (1 ) 5 July Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 1 September Wind Mid Atlantic (1 ) 4 November Wind Midwest, Mid Atlantic 0 2 Others 0 2 Total (4 ) 62 2002 and prior March Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 $ 6 April Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 4 April Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 0 11 June Wind, hail Midwest 0 0 2 September Wind, hail Midwest 0 (1 ) 2 November Wind, hail South, Midwest 0 (1 ) 11 Others 0 (5 ) 11 Total 0 (7 ) 47 Calendar year total $ 77 $ 55 $ 47 Commission Expenses Commission expense as a percent of earned premium rose by 0.6 percentage points in 2004 and 0.5 percentage points in 2003 as total contingent (profit based) commissions rose. Underwriting Expenses Over the three year period, non commission expenses fluctuated as a percent of earned premiums, but rose to a three year high of 9.3 percent in 2004 due to higher salary expense and high technology related costs. In 2003 the ratio of underwriting expenses to earned premiums was reduced by 1.1 percentage points due to the software recovery. The fluctuation in the expense ratio was partially due to continued refinements in the companys cost allocation processes between commercial lines and personal lines. 2004 10 K Page 42 Table of Contents Line of Business Analysis (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2003 2002 Calendar year 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Personal auto: Earned premium $ 451 $ 428 $ 389 5.4 9.8 Loss and loss expenses incurred 298 304 263 (2.1 ) 15.5 Loss and loss expenses ratio 66.1 % 71.1 % 67.6 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 65.1 70.1 66.7 Homeowner: Earned premium $ 259 $ 239 $ 210 8.2 14.0 Loss and loss expenses incurred 249 222 207 12.2 7.1 Loss and loss expenses ratio 96.1 % 92.7 % 98.6 % Loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophes 69.3 72.8 78.3 Accident year 2004 2003 2002 2001 2000 Loss and loss expenses incurred: Personal auto $ 297 $ 304 $ 291 $ 263 $ 258 Homeowner 254 229 207 194 176 Loss and loss expenses incurred ratio: Personal auto 65.9 % 71.2 % 74.8 % 72.8 % 74.1 % Homeowner 98.3 95.8 98.8 101.8 98.0 The personal auto and homeowner business lines together accounted for 89.5 percent, 89.5 percent and 89.4 percent of total personal lines earned premiums in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The companys intent is to write personal auto and homeowners coverages in personal lines packages. As a result, management believes that personal lines is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. For reference, however, the table above and discussion below summarizes growth and profitability trends for the personal auto and homeowner business lines. Information regarding reserve development is provided in Property Casualty Reserve Levels, Personal Lines Segment Reserves, Page 58. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of accident year incurred loss and loss expenses for the past five years. Accident year data shows the year in which loss events occurred, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, booked or paid. Personal Auto Earned premiums for personal auto grew 5.4 percent, 9.8 percent and 7.9 percent in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The growth was driven by the effect of rate increases beginning in late 2002. During 2004, rate increases in the range of 1.6 percent to 10.0 percent became effective in 21 states. Once rate changes become effective, they are applied to new business and to existing policies as they come up for renewal. Management believes the companys personal auto rates generally remain competitive. Over the last three years, the benefits of personal auto re underwriting programs and higher pricing have generally served to offset rising loss severity. For selected agencies, the programs reviewed and strengthened underwriting standards, required motor vehicle reports for many insured drivers and developed strategies to increase the companys penetration of the agencys personal lines business. The loss and loss expense ratio for personal auto improved to 66.1 percent in 2004 from 71.1 percent in 2003 and 67.6 percent in 2002. The 2002 ratio included a 5.0 percentage point benefit from the salvage and subrogation reserve. Homeowner Earned premiums for homeowners grew 8.2 percent, 14.0 percent and 10.0 percent in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, primarily because of rate increases that began to take effect in 2002. The loss and loss expense ratio excluding catastrophe losses for the homeowner line declined to 69.3 percent in 2004 from 72.8 percent in 2003 and 78.3 percent in 2002 due to the companys program to improve homeowner profitability. Catastrophe losses contributed 26.8 percentage points, 19.9 percentage points and 20.3 percentage points to the homeowner loss and loss expense ratio in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Management continues to seek to improve homeowner results so that this line achieves profitability in 2006. For this measurement, management is presuming commission and underwriting expenses would contribute approximately 29 percentage points to a homeowner combined ratio. The target also assumes that premium growth will lead to catastrophe losses as a percent of homeowner earned premium in the range of 17 percent. However, over the past three years, catastrophe losses have been approximately 22 percent on the same basis. In mid 2004, the company began modifying its policy terms to change homeowner policy earthquake deductibles to 10 percent from 5 percent in selected Midwestern states, reducing the companys exposure to a single significant 2004 10 K Page 43 Table of Contents catastrophic event. See Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, for discussion of the companys strategy to support the financial strength ratings of its property casualty insurance operations. The three most significant actions taken since 2003 to improve profitability for the homeowner line are summarized below. Management believes that the homeowner line will be profitable in 2006. However, it will take into 2007 for the full benefit of these actions to be reflected in homeowner results. Rate changes In 2004, rate increases in the range of 3.0 percent to 25.8 percent became effective in 22 states. In four of the companys six largest homeowner states, 2004 increases were in the 8 percent to 18 percent range. Once rate changes become effective, they are applied to new business and to existing policies as they come up for renewal. In 2003, 23 rate increases were effective in 21 of the 25 states in which the company writes homeowners policies. Changes in policy terms and conditions The company has identified specific coverages for updating to increase its control over risk and pricing, including capping replacement cost coverage for most policies and changing the water damage coverages. These changes began to go into effect over the past 24 months as policies have renewed and new business has been written. By the end of 2005, virtually all of the companys homeowner policies will have the new terms and conditions. Shift to one year policies In conjunction with the deployment of Diamond, the personal lines policy processing system, the company has begun to write homeowner policies on a one year term instead of a three year term. One year policies allow the company to modify rates, terms and conditions more promptly, when necessary. The company has moved to one year homeowner policies in Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Nebraska, Ohio and Wisconsin. The company plans for homeowner policies written in other states to shift to a one year term in advance of the Diamond deployment for each specific state. At the end of 2004, management estimates that approximately 27 percent of homeowner policies now have been written on a one year term. The benefits of changes in rates and policy terms and conditions has been deferred because the company traditionally has written homeowner business on a three year policy term and approximately one third of policies come up for renewal each year. For example, in Ohio, which accounted for 32.0 percent of the companys 2004 total homeowner earned premiums, typical 2005 homeowner renewal policies are experiencing approximately a 40 percent increase in total premium. The increase demonstrates the cumulative effect of rate changes, insured value and policy changes that were effected by the company over the policyholders most recent three year term. Personal Lines Outlook In the personal lines marketplace, the company believes agents select Cincinnati for their value oriented clients who seek to balance value and price and are attracted by Cincinnatis superior claims service and the benefits of the companys package approach. However, management is maintaining modest expectations for the personal lines area and anticipates mid single digit written premium growth in 2005. Industry experts currently anticipate industry wide personal lines written premiums will rise approximately 4.5 percent in 2005. Six factors are contributing to managements growth expectations: Timing The company implemented homeowner rate increases in its larger states in late 2003 and early 2004. As a result, the impact of these rate changes will accumulate into 2007, because approximately one third of the three year policies written before late 2003 come up for renewal each year. Rate levels The company continues to work with its agents to refine the current rate structure to bring homeowner profitability in line with personal auto results and establish prices that attract agencies quality accounts. Management believes homeowner rate increases instituted in the past 24 months generally established pricing above the mid point of market rates. As a result, current rates in some areas may be at a level that diminishes a differentiating factor for more price sensitive consumers. In addition, the rate of increase for policies renewing for the first time in three years can be significant, as discussed above, even if the result is a competitive price. In a number of its field territories, management believes rates may be too high and it continues to evaluate independent agent market intelligence for potential refinements to the rate structure. Policy characteristics In keeping with industry practices and as noted above, the companys homeowner policies now include specific charges for optional coverages previously included at no charge, such as water damage coverage. This change can be an advantage for policyholders because it allows them to select the amount of coverage to meet their needs. However, this change also may have diminished a differentiating factor for the companys products in the marketplace. Underwriting Personal lines underwriters are focusing on insurance to value initiatives to verify that policyholders are buying the correct level of coverage for the value of the insured risk. In addition, the company is carefully maintaining its underwriting standards to help achieve the return to profitability. Diamond introduction The transition to the Diamond system of agencies writing in total almost 60 percent of personal lines volume is a significant accomplishment. However, the company now understands that the agency 2004 10 K Page 44 Table of Contents learning curve for Diamond may be steeper than anticipated, potentially reducing agency attention to new business efforts. Longer term, management believes this program could have a substantial positive benefit on premium growth as the technology presents solutions sought by independent agencies. Management believes the new system will ultimately make it easier for agents to place personal auto, homeowners and other personal lines business with the company, while greatly increasing policy issuance and policy renewal efficiency and providing direct bill capabilities. Agents using Diamond chose direct bill for 39 percent of the policies and headquarters policy printing for 72 percent of the policies in 2004, options that generally were not available on the companys previous system. New agencies The appointment of new agencies over the next several years also should contribute to personal lines growth. These factors may affect the personal lines growth rate, however, management believes that they will allow the company to improve the profitability of its homeowner line of business while maintaining personal auto profitability. While primarily focusing on longer term targets for the homeowner line because of the existing base of three year policies, management believes the overall personal lines combined ratio will be in the range of 95 percent for 2005 as the company continues to work through the renewal policy cycle and assuming catastrophe losses within normal parameters. Life Insurance Results of Operations Overview Three year Highlights Performance highlights for the life insurance segment include: Revenues Revenue growth has accelerated over the past three years as the company increased life policy face amounts in force to $44.921 billion at year end 2004 from $38.492 billion at year end 2003 and $32.486 billion at year end 2002. Profitability The life insurance segment reports a small GAAP based segment profit because investment income is included in investment segment results, except investment income credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). Results improved in 2004 and 2003 because operating expenses remained level and mortality experience remained within pricing guidelines as premiums continued to rise. At the same time, management recognizes that assets under management, capital appreciation and investment income are integral to evaluation of the success of the life insurance segment because of the long duration of life products. For that reason, management also evaluates GAAP data including results for investment activities on life insurance related assets for The Cincinnati Life Insurance Company subsidiary, which comprises the life insurance segment. Looking at a key performance indicator for Cincinnati Life, GAAP net income grew 74.1 percent in 2004 to $38 million compared with 25.8 percent in 2003 to $22 million. The life insurance portfolio had pretax realized investment gains of $9 million in 2004 compared with $10 million and $11 million of pretax realized investment losses in 2003 and 2002, respectively. Growth Cincinnati Life offers whole, term and universal life products, fixed annuities and disability income products. Revenues in 2004 were derived principally from: Premiums from traditional products, principally term insurance, which contributed 71.7 percent Fee income from interest sensitive products, principally universal life insurance, which contributed 25.4 percent Separate account investment management fee income, which contributed 2.9 percent The companys life insurance subsidiary reported 2004 statutory written life premium of $118 million, which included the sale of two general account BOLI policies totaling $10 million, compared with $102 million in 2003, which included no BOLI sales. Statutory written premiums have been reclassified to exclude annuity deposits not involving life contingencies, which are not recognized as written premium under statutory rules. Annuity sales were $71 million in 2004 compared with $37 million in 2003 and $85 million in 2002. The growth in 2004 annuity sales was attributable to attractive fixed rates and guaranteed income features. In 2004, the companys life insurance segment experienced a 3.5 percent rise in applications submitted and a 10.7 percent increase in face amount issued due to continued strong sales of term insurance marketed through the companys property casualty agency force. Management believes market pressures are mitigated for the life insurance company because of its association with the property casualty operations, its leverage of the property casualty agency franchise and its careful selection of independent agencies. Within this marketplace, Cincinnati Life is able to be competitive and attracts its share of business from the property casualty agencies with which the company has strong relationships. 2004 10 K Page 45 Table of Contents Over the past several years, the life insurance company has worked to introduce a portfolio of new and enhanced products, primarily under the LifeHorizons name. For example, during 2003, the company introduced a new guaranteed whole life policy and a non cancelable rider for its disability income product. In 2004, Cincinnati Life continued to enhance the LifeHorizons portfolio of products to meet changing needs of both consumers and agencies. Product development centers on mortality oriented products combined with contract guarantees. Distribution expansion into western and northeastern states is a high priority. Management has added a life field marketing representative for the western states and plans to add a representative for the northeastern states in 2005. During 2004, Cincinnati Life added a disability income product to its worksite marketing portfolio. Life Insurance Results 2004 2003 2003 2002 (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 101 $ 95 $ 87 5.5 9.2 Separate account investment management fees 3 2 0 31.9 445.2 Total revenues 104 97 87 6.1 11.3 Contract holders benefits incurred 95 91 83 3.5 10.1 Investment interest credited to contract holders (46 ) (43 ) (36 ) (5.7 ) (19.0 ) Expenses incurred 53 52 52 0.2 (0.7 ) Total expenses 102 100 99 0.9 1.1 Life insurance segment profit (loss) $ 2 $ (3 ) $ (12 ) 147.5 71.8 Profitability Life segment expenses consist principally of: Insurance benefits paid and reserve increases, related to traditional life and interest sensitive products, which accounted for 64.3 percent of 2004 expenses Commissions, general and other business expenses, net of deferred acquisition costs, accounted for 35.7 percent of 2004 expenses Segment profitability depends largely on premium levels, the adequacy of product pricing, underwriting skill and operating efficiencies. Life segment results include only investment interest credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). The remaining investment income is reported in the investment segment results. The life investment portfolio is managed to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and rates credited to policyholders. Management considers the amount of assets under management and investment income for the life investment portfolio as key performance indicators for the life insurance segment. The life insurance company seeks to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to benefits paid and reserve increases by consistently achieving better than average claims experience due to skilled underwriting. Commissions paid by the life insurance operation are on par with industry averages. During the past three years, the company has invested in imaging and workflow technology. As a result, the efficiency of application processing has improved significantly. During this period, submitted applications have increased at an annualized rate of approximately 6 percent, while staff involved with the underwriting and policy issue has declined 5 percent. This has been accomplished while maintaining the companys service standards. Acquisition costs, which vary with and are primarily related to the production of new business, are deferred and recorded as an asset. The company generally limits the expenses capitalized to the lower of the expense assumptions used in pricing or the actual deferrable costs. The deferred acquisition cost is amortized into income in proportion to different measures depending on the policy type. The company regularly reviews and, as appropriate, changes (unlocks) the assumptions used to calculate deferred acquisition costs for universal life contracts. The 2004 unlocking pertained primarily to assumptions regarding asset defaults and mortality. 2004 unlocking assumptions reduced deferred acquisition cost amortization by $4 million and deferred revenue amortization by $1 million. Life Insurance Outlook As the life insurance company seeks to increase penetration of the property casualty agencies, managements objective is to increase premiums and maintain expenses. Management continues to emphasize the cross serving opportunities afforded by worksite marketing life insurance products. In 2005, management is exploring additional programs to simplify the worksite marketing sales process for independent property casualty agencies, including enrollment software. Term insurance is the companys largest life insurance product line. Changes in the marketplace during 2004 have affected the cost and availability of reinsurance for term life insurance for 2005. The company currently is researching alternative reinsurance solutions to help fund the statutory reserve strain on new term business. Management believes it will be able to structure a reinsurance program that provides the life insurance company with the ability to continue to grow in the term life insurance marketplace while appropriately managing risk, at a cost that allows the company to achieve its profit targets. 2004 10 K Page 46 Table of Contents Investments Results of Operations Overview Three year Highlights The investment segment contributes investment income and realized gains and losses to results of operations. Investments provide the companys primary source of pretax and after tax profits. Investment income Pretax investment income reached a new record of $492 million in 2004, rising 5.7 percent from the prior record in 2003. Growth in investment income over the past two years has been driven by strong cash flow for new investments, higher interest income from the growing fixed income portfolio and increased dividend income from the common stock portfolio. Realized gains and losses The company reported realized gains in 2004 compared with realized losses in 2003 and 2002. Realized losses were substantially lower in 2003 than 2002 as fewer other than temporary impairment charges were recorded due to the economic and market recovery. Investment Income The advantages of strong cash flow in the past three years have been somewhat offset by the challenge of investing in a low interest rate environment. The allocation of new investment dollars to fixed income securities during most of 2004 added to investment income growth. Overall, common stock dividends contributed 48.6 percent of pretax investment income in 2004 compared with 48.8 percent in 2003 and 46.9 percent in 2002. In 2004, 33 of the 51 common stock holdings in the portfolio raised their indicated dividend payout, as did 29 of 51 in 2003 and 28 of the 46 in 2002. The 2004 increases should add approximately $15 million to investment income on an annualized basis. Fifth Third, the companys largest equity holding, contributed 58.8 percent of the increase and 39.9 percent of total dividend income in 2004. Investment Results 2004 2003 2003 2002 (In millions) 2004 2003 2002 Change % Change % Investment income: Interest $ 252 $ 235 $ 233 7.2 0.9 Dividends 239 227 209 5.0 9.1 Other 6 8 8 (23.0 ) (0.2 ) Investment expenses (5 ) (5 ) (5 ) (13.0 ) 5.9 Total net investment income 492 465 445 5.6 4.7 Investment interest credited to contract holders (46 ) (43 ) (36 ) (5.7 ) (19.0 ) Net realized investment gains and losses: Other than temporary impairment charges (6 ) (80 ) (98 ) 92.0 17.7 Realized investment gains and losses 87 30 8 189.9 299.2 Change in valuation of embedded derivatives 10 9 (4 ) 7.9 362.0 Net realized investment gains (losses) 91 (41 ) (94 ) 321.7 56.3 Investment operations income $ 537 $ 381 $ 315 40.6 21.2 Net Realized Investment Gains and Losses Over the past three years, net realized investment gains and losses have been made up of other than temporary impairment charges, realized investment gains and losses on the sale of securities and changes in the valuation of embedded derivatives within certain convertible securities. These three areas are discussed below: Other than temporary Impairment Charges In 2004, the company recorded $6 million in write downs of investments that management deemed had experienced an other than temporary decline in market value versus $80 million in 2003 and $98 million in 2002. See Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 27, for factors considered by management. These other than temporary impairment charges represented 0.1 percent, 0.6 percent and 0.9 percent of total invested assets at year end 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Also included in other than temporary impairments are unrealized losses of holdings that the company has identified for sale but not yet completed a transaction. Other than temporary impairment charges declined significantly in 2004 due to prior impairments in the portfolio and an improvement in the general financial climate. During the three year period, almost 90 percent of the write downs of securities that management deemed had experienced other than temporary declines in market value occurred during 2002 and the first half of 2003. During that earlier period, lingering weakness in the economy affected market values. Of the $80 million in other than temporary write downs in 2003, $69 million occurred in the first six months of the year. The write down of two airline related tax exempt municipal bonds totaling $5 million accounted for the majority of other than temporary impairment charges in 2004. The majority of the write downs in 2003 related to 31 high yield corporate bonds written down $39 million and 10 convertible securities written down $26 million. Unlike 2002, the market value declines in 2003 were related to company specific events rather than industry issues. 2004 10 K Page 47 Table of Contents The impairment of $5 million of airline related bonds in 2004 was a marked reduction from the prior two years, primarily because of the stabilization or improvement in the market value of previously impaired bonds and the disposition of airline related securities in previous years. Over the past three years, other than temporary impairments of airline related bonds as well as sales of securities reduced the companys exposure to this industry to approximately $36 million at year end 2004, down from $140 million at year end 2001. The company did not write down any utility/merchant energy/trading securities in 2004 due to a healthier credit climate and the previous disposal of securities. In 2002 and 2003, valuations throughout that industry were affected by mismanagement of trading operations and accounting irregularities regarding the booking of revenues and the valuation of trading contracts. The company did not write down any healthcare securities in 2004. The 2003 healthcare impairment charges related primarily to the sudden default by Healthsouth Corporation and subsequent fraud charges. These securities have since recovered and all coupon payments have been made. Other than temporary impairment charges from the investment portfolio by asset class (see Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for a description of the five asset classes) are summarized below: Years ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Investment grade corporate bonds: Number of securities impaired 0 1 0 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Impairment amount $ 0 $ (1 ) $ 0 New book value 0 0 0 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % High yield corporate bonds: Number of securities impaired 1 31 24 % to total owned 1 % 16 % 10 % Impairment amount $ 0 $ (39 ) $ (77 ) New book value 2 13 37 % to total owned 1 % 3 % 5 % Tax exempt municipal bonds: Number of securities impaired 2 5 2 % to total owned 0 % 1 % 0 % Impairment amount $ (5 ) $ (6 ) $ (5 ) New book value 9 3 1 % to total owned 1 % 0 % 0 % Common stocks: Number of securities impaired 1 2 0 % to total owned 2 % 4 % 0 % Impairment amount $ (1 ) $ (8 ) $ 0 New book value 0 5 0 % to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Convertible securities: Number of securities impaired 0 10 4 % to total owned 0 % 11 % 4 % Impairment amount $ 0 $ (26 ) $ (16 ) New book value 0 23 11 % to total owned 0 % 6 % 2 % Total: Number of securities impaired 4 49 30 % to total owned 0 % 3 % 4 % Impairment amount $ (6 ) $ (80 ) $ (98 ) New book value 11 44 49 % to total owned 0 % 1 % 1 % 2004 10 K Page 48 Table of Contents Other than temporary impairment charges from the investment portfolio by industry are summarized as follows: Years ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2004 2003 2002 Airline $ (5 ) $ (18 ) $ (28 ) Utility/merchant energy/trading 0 (30 ) (14 ) Healthcare 0 (10 ) 0 Automotive 0 (1 ) (11 ) Cable 0 0 (12 ) Telecommunication 0 0 (16 ) Retail 0 0 (3 ) Other (1 ) (21 ) (14 ) Total $ (6 ) $ (80 ) $ (98 ) Realized Investment Gains and Losses In 2004, the company recorded $87 million in net realized investment gains, primarily due to the sale of equity holdings, compared with $30 million in 2003 and $8 million in 2002. The company buys and sells securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve its portfolio objectives. Although the company prefers to hold fixed income securities until maturity, a decision to sell reflects managements perception of a change in the underlying fundamentals of the security and preference to allocate those funds to investments that more closely meet the established parameters for long term stability and growth. Managements opinion that a security fundamentally no longer meets the companys investment expectations may reflect a loss of confidence in the issuers management, a change in underlying risk factors (such as political risk, regulatory risk, sector risk or credit risk), or a recovery from a previously impaired value. In 2004 and 2003, the company sold fixed income securities that it deemed to have limited upside potential. During 2004, the company sold $356 million in equity holdings as part of a program to support the financial strength ratings of its property casualty insurance operations (see Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, for discussion of this program). Holdings to be sold were selected primarily based on the investment committee and managements belief that these securities would have a lower dividend growth rate over the next several years when compared with other holdings in the portfolio. Management also considered the potential tax effect of any unrealized gains. Partial sales of holdings that were over $100 million in assets at year end 2003 contributed $311 million. As a result, the company now has 14 holdings over $100 million compared with 15 a year ago. Sales of smaller holdings that the company often uses as trading vehicles or had already targeted for sale contributed the remainder of the $356 million. The company also realized $21 million in gains from the sale of previously impaired securities. Change in the Valuation of Embedded Derivatives In 2004, the company recorded $10 million in fair value increases compared with $9 million in fair value increases in 2003 and $4 million in fair value declines in 2002 due to the application of SFAS No. 133, which requires measurement of the fluctuations in the value of the embedded derivative features in selected convertible securities. See Item 8, Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 76, for details on the accounting for convertible security embedded options. Investments Outlook Management believes that it will achieve pretax investment income growth of 5 percent to 6 percent in 2005 as a result of the anticipated growth in dividend income, the potential rise in interest rates, strong cash flow from insurance operations and the higher than normal allocation of new cash flow to fixed income securities. While management does not forecast realized investment gains and losses, it believes that impairment charges in 2005 will be minimal. Every security in the portfolio was trading at or above 75 percent of book value at December 31, 2004. Management believes impairments should be limited to securities marked to market because they have been identified for sale, or those where issuer specific events cause sharp declines in market value with little or no warning. The companys asset impairment committee continues to monitor the investment portfolio. The company also is awaiting the Financial Accounting Standard Boards final decision regarding EITF 03 1 (see Item 8, Note 1, Recent Accounting Pronouncements, Page 79). Until that decision is announced, the company is unable to estimate the impact of adoption of the standard on its recognition of other than temporary impairment losses. The companys current asset impairment policy is discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 27. The company believes that the committees ongoing reviews help to minimize the effect of changes in interest rates that may negatively change the value of the companys holdings. 2004 10 K Page 49 Table of Contents Other Other income of the insurance subsidiaries, parent company operations and non investment operations of CFC Investment Company and CinFin Capital Management Company resulted in $8 million in revenues in 2004 compared with $7 million in 2003 and $14 million in 2002. Losses before income taxes of $37 million in 2004, $38 million and $32 million recorded in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively, were primarily due to interest expense from debt of the parent company. Taxes Income tax expense was $216 million in 2004 compared with $106 million in 2003 and $41 million in 2002. The effective tax rate for 2004 was 27.0 percent compared with 22.0 percent in 2003 and 14.8 percent in 2002. In addition to a rise in underwriting profits, the higher tax rate reflected the higher level of capital gains, which are taxed at a 35 percent rate, compared with capital losses in 2003. The company pursues a strategy of investing some portion of cash flow in tax advantaged fixed maturities and equity securities to minimize its overall tax liability and maximize after tax earnings. See Item 8, Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 84, for detail regarding the companys effective income tax rate. 2004 10 K Page 50 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flow OVERVIEW Liquidity is a measure of the companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of business obligations. The parent companys cash requirements include general operating expenses, interest payments on its long and short term debt, dividends to shareholders and common stock repurchases. The parent companys primary means of meeting its liquidity requirements are dividends and borrowings from its insurance subsidiary and investment income from its investment portfolio. The companys access to the capital markets and short term bank borrowing also provide other potential sources of liquidity. The property casualty and life insurance operations short term cash needs primarily consist of paying insurance loss and loss expenses as well as ongoing operating expenses and payments of dividends to the parent company. Historically, those needs have been met through underwriting cash flow and investment income. Although the company has never sold investments to pay claims, the sale of investments would provide an additional source of liquidity, if required. After satisfying short term cash requirements, excess cash flows from underwriting are invested in fixed income and equity securities in the insurance subsidiaries, leading to the potential for increases in future investment income and realized gains. As described in Item 1, Regulations, Page 15, and Item 8, Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 83, dividends paid to the parent company by its insurance subsidiary are restricted by Ohio regulatory requirements. Further, management intends for all insurance subsidiaries to maintain their superior financial strength ratings, which may constrain their dividend paying capacity. In 2004, 2003 and 2002, the companys insurance subsidiary declared ordinary dividends of $175 million, $50 million and $100 million, respectively, to the parent company. The subsidiary can pay up to $588 million in ordinary dividends to the parent company in 2005 without approval from the Ohio Department of Insurance. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Operating activities are conducted primarily by the property casualty and life insurance companies. Underwriting generates positive cash flows because cash from premium payments generally is received in advance of cash payments required to settle claims. The increase in the positive cash flow from operating activities generated in each of the past three years resulted from the improvement in the results of operations discussed above. The following table summarizes cash flow of the insurance subsidiary (direct method): Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2004 2003 2002 Premiums collected $ 3,055 $ 2,771 $ 2,511 Loss and loss expenses paid 1,543 1,540 1,357 Commissions and other underwriting expenses paid 881 759 713 Insurance subsidiary cash flow from underwriting 631 472 441 Investment income received 362 332 316 Insurance subsidiary operating cash flow $ 993 $ 804 $ 757 Premiums collected have risen over the past three years because of growth in written premiums. Paid losses and related loss expenses accounted for approximately 84 percent, 82 percent and 74 percent of property casualty and life insurance losses and policyholder benefits incurred in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Excess cash flows from underwriting, investment and other corporate activities are invested in fixed income and equity securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve the companys portfolio objectives. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for a discussion of the companys investment strategy, portfolio allocation and quality. Disposition of investments occurs for a number of reasons (See Item 8, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, Page 75): Sales of fixed maturities investments. Although the company prefers to hold fixed income securities until maturity, a decision to sell or to reduce a holding reflects managements perception of a change in the underlying fundamentals of the security and preference to allocate those funds to investments that more closely meet the established parameters for long term stability and growth. In 2004 and 2003, sales of fixed income securities rose as the company sold securities that it deemed to have limited upside potential. 2004 10 K Page 51 Table of Contents Call or maturity of fixed maturity investments. Calls of U.S. agency paper in 2004 and 2003 were the primary reason for the increase in calls and maturities of fixed maturity investments. The company has purchased U.S. agency paper with higher coupons and shorter call protection features. Sales of equity securities investments. Sales of equity securities rose in 2004 due to the sale of $356 million in equity holdings (see Investments Results of Operations, Page 47, for a discussion of equity sales in 2004). Purchases of investments reflected the companys historical portfolio allocation strategy through the first quarter of 2004: Purchases of fixed maturities investments. Purchases of fixed income securities rose significantly in 2004 as the company allocated a higher percentage of new investment dollars to fixed income investments in the second half of the year and used proceeds from the call of U.S. agency paper to purchase new fixed income investments (see Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, and Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for discussion of the investment strategy and portfolio allocation.). Purchases of equity securities investments. Due to the allocation of a higher percentage of new investment dollars to fixed income investments, equity securities purchases in 2004 were below the level of 2003 and 2002. Management anticipates resuming equity securities investments in 2005 to help achieve its portfolio objectives. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities generally reflect parent company actions: Dividends to shareholders Over the past 10 years, the company has paid an average of 43 percent of net income as dividends, with the remaining 57 percent available to reinvest for future growth and for share repurchases. The ability of the company to continue paying cash dividends is subject to factors the board of directors may deem relevant. In February 2005, the board of directors authorized a 10.9 percent increase in the regular quarterly cash dividend to an indicated annual rate of $1.22 per share and also authorized a 5 percent stock dividend payable April 26, 2005. The board indicated that it intended to maintain the new quarterly cash dividend on the higher number of shares outstanding following the stock dividend, resulting in a 15.0 percent increase in the total indicated annual rate. In January 2004, the board of directors authorized a 10.0 percent increase in the regular quarterly cash dividend to an indicated annual rate of $1.10 per share and also authorized a 5 percent stock dividend payable June 15, 2004, maintaining the increased quarterly cash dividend on the new shares. This resulted in a 16.1 percent increase in the total indicated annual rate. In 2003, the indicated annual rate rose 10.8 percent. Common stock repurchase The Cincinnati Financial board believes that stock repurchases can help fulfill the companys commitment to enhancing shareholder value. Consequently, the companys board has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares. Common stock repurchases for treasury have continued at a steady pace over the last several years and occur when management believes that stock prices on the open market are favorable for such repurchases. At a minimum, the company would expect the repurchase to offset dilution of option exercises. In 2004, the company repurchased 1,571,800 shares at a total cost of $66 million (see Item 5, Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Page 19 for information regarding the repurchase activity). Shares repurchased under the current board authorization total 13.3 million, at a total cost to the company of $481 million. At December 31, 2004, 3.7 million shares remained authorized for repurchase. Share repurchase amounts are not adjusted for stock dividends. Senior notes On November 1, 2004, the company issued $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior notes due 2034, generating net proceeds of $368 million. The company used $183 million of the proceeds to pay off two short term lines of credit. The remaining proceeds will be used for general corporate purposes and to finance the construction beginning in 2005 of an estimated $100 million office building and parking garage to be situated at the headquarters located in Fairfield. Assets Overview At December 31, 2004, the investment portfolio made up 78.5 percent of total assets compared with 80.3 percent at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2004, the remainder consisted primarily of other invested assets (0.2 percent), premium receivables (6.9 percent), reinsurance receivables (4.2 percent), deferred acquisition costs (2.5 percent) and separate accounts (3.0 percent). These percentages have remained relatively constant over the last few years. 2004 10 K Page 52 Table of Contents Total assets increased 3.9 percent, or $598 million, to $16.107 billion at year end 2004. The increase primarily reflected: $215 million increase in cash due to strong cash flow in 2004. $190 million increase in investment portfolio assets as discussed below. $59 million increase in premiums receivables and $28 million increase in deferred policy acquisition costs due to the higher premium volume. $57 million increase in reinsurance recoverables primarily due to business growth and record catastrophe losses in 2004. As discussed under Item 1, Reinsurance, Page 6, the companys working reinsurance treaties are with highly rated and financially strong reinsurers and the company has experienced no collection or aging problems with the property casualty or life reinsurance receivables. See USAIG Pool Participation, Page 54, for a discussion of that reinsurance recoverable. $14 million increase in separate accounts primarily due to market appreciation of assets held and reinvestment of income as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Separate Accounts, Page 29. Investment Portfolio The market value of the companys investment portfolio was $12.639 billion and $12.449 billion at year end 2004 and 2003, respectively. Insurance regulatory and statutory requirements designed to protect policyholders from investment risk influence the companys investment decisions on an individual insurance company basis. Cash generated from insurance operations is invested almost entirely in five classes of assets evaluated for yield and risk prior to purchase (see Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for a discussion of the five classes of assets). In 2004, the company temporarily changed the allocation of new property casualty portfolio investments to reduce the ratio of common stock to statutory surplus. The property casualty portfolio maintained that ratio below 100 percent throughout the 1990s (see Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, for additional information). The ratio of common stock to statutory surplus for the property casualty insurance group portfolio was 103.5 percent at year end 2004 compared with 114.7 percent at year end 2003. On August 26, 2004, the company announced it transferred approximately 31.8 million shares of Fifth Third common stock to The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Financial Corporations insurance subsidiary, from the parent company. This action was related to the June 28, 2004, application to the SEC seeking exemptive relief under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (see Item 1, Regulation, Page 15, for more detail regarding the holding companys status under the Investment Company Act). The transfer was authorized by Cincinnati Financials board of directors on August 13, 2004, and approved by the Ohio Department of Insurance on August 24, 2004. While the transfer raised The Cincinnati Insurance Companys surplus, the action was not a means to accelerate growth or strengthen loss reserves. Rather, it allowed the company to retain the financial flexibility that continues to support its high financial strength ratings. At December 31, 2004, statutory surplus for the property casualty insurance group was $4.191 billion compared with $2.783 billion at December 31, 2003. Management anticipates continuing the temporary allocation of nearly 100 percent of cash flow available for investment to fixed income and convertible security purchases until mid 2005. Over the longer term, the company anticipates continuing to invest in equity securities to help achieve its portfolio objectives. The companys portfolio investments are primarily in publicly traded fixed income and equity and equity linked securities, classified as available for sale in the accompanying financial statements. Valuations of all of the companys investments are based on either listed prices or data provided by FT Interactive Data, an outside resource that supplies global securities pricing. Changes in the fair value of these securities, based on the listed prices or information from FT Interactive Data, are reported on the companys balance sheet in other comprehensive income, net of tax. Fixed maturities (fixed income bonds and notes) and equity and equity linked securities (common and preferred stocks) are classified as available for sale and recorded at fair value in the financial statements. At December 31, 2004, the companys portfolio of fixed income securities had a weighted average yield to book of 5.8 percent, a weighted average maturity of 9.4 years and a weighted average modified duration to maturity of 6.9 years. At December 31, 2003, the companys portfolio of fixed income securities had a weighted average yield to book value of 6.6 percent, a weighted average maturity of 9.5 years and a weighted average modified duration to maturity of 6.7 years. The decline in the yield to book was due to lower prevailing interest rates as well as the companys focus on tax exempt municipal bonds, which have a lower gross yield. The average maturity of the fixed income portfolio declined slightly because of the companys focus on the intermediate portion of the yield curve and the purchase of approximately $100 million in short term bonds to fund estimated construction payments for the headquarters expansion. The average duration to maturity increased slightly as lower coupon levels offset shorter maturities (see Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for additional discussion of the fixed income portfolio). Modified duration can be defined as the average maturity of all bond payments, where each payment is weighted by its value. In the fixed income 2004 10 K Page 53 Table of Contents market, duration is used to measure the sensitivity of an asset price to movements in yields. See Item 8, Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 80, for additional information regarding the maturity of the companys fixed income portfolio. Over the past several years, the company has invested a higher portion of available funds in U.S. agency paper and insured municipal bonds, resulting in a significant rise in the percentage of the portfolio rated A and above based on fair value (market value). The majority of non rated securities are tax exempt municipal bonds from smaller municipalities that chose not to pursue a credit rating. Credit ratings as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, for the companys fixed income portfolio were: 2004 2003 Fair Percent Fair Percent (Dollars in millions) value to total value to total Moodys Ratings Aaa, Aa, A $ 3,101 60.3 % $ 2,007 47.4 % Baa 1,069 20.8 1,028 24.3 Ba 363 7.1 411 9.7 B 125 2.4 224 5.3 Caa 23 0.5 68 1.6 Ca 11 0.2 19 0.4 C 0 0.0 2 0.1 Non rated 449 8.7 473 11.2 Total $ 5,141 100.0 % $ 4,232 100.0 % Standard Poors Ratings AAA, AA, A $ 2,865 55.7 % $ 1,935 45.7 % BBB 1,095 21.3 1,084 25.6 BB 340 6.6 391 9.2 B 154 3.0 232 5.5 CCC 5 0.1 59 1.4 CC 11 0.2 3 0.1 D 4 0.1 7 0.2 Non rated 667 13.0 521 12.3 Total $ 5,141 100.0 % $ 4,232 100.0 % Similar to the equity portfolio, the fixed income portfolio is concentrated in the financials sector, including banks, brokerage, finance and investment and insurance companies. Management leverages its familiarity with this sector in its fixed income portfolio. The financials sector represented 15.7 percent and 16.1 percent, respectively, of book value and market value of the overall fixed income portfolio at December 31, 2004, compared with 16.7 percent and 17.1 percent of book value and market value at December 31, 2003. Approximately 85.3 percent of the market value of financials sector holdings were investment grade corporate bonds at year end 2004 compared with 82.2 percent at year end 2003. No other industry accounts for more than 10 percent of the fixed income portfolio. USAIG Pool Participation At December 31, 2004, $260 million, or 38.2 percent, of total reinsurance receivables, compared with $324 million, or 52.3 percent, at December 31, 2003, related to the companys participation in USAIG, a joint underwriting association of individual insurance companies that collectively function as a worldwide insurance market for all types of aviation and aerospace accounts. The reinsurance receivable primarily relates to September 11, 2001, events. The decline in 2004 was due to a partial reduction in those loss reserves. Due to the companys participation in USAIG for policy years 2001 and prior, The Cincinnati Insurance Company was named as the designated insurer for American Airlines policy year 2000 business. Reinsurance recoverables resulting from all American Airlines accidents during that year were recorded on The Cincinnati Insurance Companies 2001 financial statements. Management expects to recover 100 percent of the reinsurance recoverables associated with the USAIG participation although it is impossible to estimate the timeframe for recovery due to the complex nature of aviation and aerospace insurance. More than 99 percent of the reinsurance recoverables associated with USAIG are backed by securities on deposit. The company no longer participates in new business generated by USAIG and its members. Liabilities Overview At December 31, 2004, insurance reserves were 48.1 percent of total liabilities compared with 47.7 percent at December 31, 2003. At December 31, 2004, the remainder of liabilities consisted primarily of unearned premiums (15.6 percent), deferred income tax (18.6 percent) and long and short term debt (8.0 percent). 2004 10 K Page 54 Table of Contents Total liabilities increased 5.9 percent, or $553 million, to $9.858 billion at December 31, 2004 from $9.305 billion at December 31, 2003. The increase primarily reflected: $303 million increase in insurance reserves as discussed below. The company does not discount its property casualty reserves. $93 million increase in unearned premiums due to higher premium volume. $371 million increase in long term debt as discussed below. Offsetting the increases were a $183 million decline in notes payable and a $115 million decline in deferred income tax liability, primarily reflecting lower unrealized gains in the investment portfolio. Property Casualty Reserve Levels At year end 2004, the total reserve balance, net of reinsurance, was $2.977 billion, compared with $2.845 billion at year end 2003 and $2.608 billion at year end 2002 (see Item 8, Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 82, for a reconciliation of property casualty reserve balances with the loss and loss expense liability on the balance sheet). The reserves reflected in the financial statements are managements most accurate estimation. The outside actuarys range for adequate statutory reserves, net of reinsurance, was $2.794 billion to $3.032 billion for 2004; $2.696 billion to $2.906 billion for 2003; and $2.492 billion to $2.674 billion for 2002. The assumptions used to establish the recommended ranges were consistent with the actuarys practices. Historically, the company has established reserves in the upper half of the actuarys range, as discussed in Critical Accounting Policies, Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 25. In addition to managements conclusions regarding adequate reserve levels, other factors that have affected reserve levels over the past three years included: Increases in coverage in force in selected business lines New business Higher initial case reserves on liability claims Judicial decisions and mass tort claims Loss cost inflation in selected lines The types of coverages the company offers and the risk levels retained have a direct influence on the development of claims. Specifically, claims that develop quickly and have lower risk retention levels generally are more predictable. As discussed in Commercial Lines Segment Reserves, Page 56, managements decision to re underwrite the commercial lines book of business beginning in 2000, including non renewing certain policyholders due to risk levels, and increasing rates to better reflect exposure levels, has already resulted in improved profitability. Management believes the program is leading to a lower risk profile for the overall commercial lines segment, which should contribute to favorable loss reserve trends. As discussed in Personal Lines Segment Reserves, Page 58, management is seeking to improve its personal lines segment performance, in particular the homeowner business line, partially by reducing risk exposure through changes in policy terms and conditions. Management does not expect its actions in personal lines to have a material impact on loss reserve trends, largely due to the relatively short tail nature of homeowner claims. In 2003 and 2004, $70 million in reserves were released following the November 2003 Ohio Supreme Courts limiting of its 1999 Scott Pontzer v. Liberty Mutual decision. The reserve releases were primarily made in the commercial auto and other liability business lines. As background, the Ohio Supreme Courts 1999 decision in Scott Pontzer greatly increased the exposure on commercial auto insurance policies. That ruling extended Ohio businesses uninsured motorist/underinsured motorist coverage in force over the preceding 15 years to their employees when they were not working and to the employees resident family members. It contributed to changes in policy wording for UM/UIM coverage. Additionally, the same courts 2000 decision in Linko v. Indemnity effectively caused insurers to extend UM/UIM coverage, at the newly increased level of exposure, to every auto insurance policy in Ohio at no additional premium. The two court rulings affected all auto insurers in the state. Between 1999 and December 2003, the company had established case and IBNR reserves for past UM/UIM losses on the basis of the 1999 and 2000 decisions. In the November 2003 decision to limit the Scott Pontzer decision, the court ruled that an employers commercial automobile insurance policy only covers injured employees and only when the accident happens in the course and scope of their employment. Following the fourth quarter 2003 reserve review, reserve levels were modified to reflect managements assessment that mold claims behaved similar to asbestos and environmental claims, and reserves for these claims should be estimated using similar methods. These changes have been seen predominately in the commercial multi peril business line. Management expects that mold exclusions added to the companys commercial policies beginning in 2003 will mitigate this issue after 2006. 2004 10 K Page 55 Table of Contents Further, beginning in 2003, reserve levels reflected the need to establish higher expense reserves because of the rise in litigation costs due to larger and more complex claims. These changes have been seen predominately in commercial multi peril and other liability business lines. Beginning in 2002, managements conclusions regarding reserve levels for all business lines reflected refinement of the manner in which the value of future salvage and subrogation for claims already incurred were estimated. Also in 2002, management increased IBNR reserves because of higher than expected paid and or reported development in workers compensation, commercial multi peril and other liability business lines for accident years 1999 through 2001. Asbestos and Environmental Reserves Management believes that the companys asbestos and environment reserves, including mold reserves, are adequate at this time and that these coverage areas are immaterial to the companys financial position due to the types of accounts the company has insured in the past. Loss and loss expenses incurred for all asbestos and environmental claims were $41 million, or 2.4 percent of total loss and loss expenses in 2004, compared with $28 million, or 1.6 percent, in 2003, and $37 million, or 2.2 percent, in 2002. The increase in 2004 was primarily due to mold claims. Net reserves for all asbestos and environmental claims were increased to $135 million in 2004 compared with $105 million in 2003 and $88 million in 2002. Net reserves for all asbestos and environmental claims were 4.5 percent, 3.7 percent and 3.4 percent of total reserves, in 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. Commercial accounts generally were written by the company after the development of coverage forms that exclude asbestos cleanup costs. The company believes its exposure to risks associated with past production and or installation of asbestos materials is minimal because the company was primarily a personal lines company when most of the asbestos exposure occurred. The commercial coverage the company did offer was predominantly related to local market construction activity rather than asbestos manufacturing. Further, over the past three years, to limit its exposure to mold and other environmental risks going forward, the company has revised policy terms where permitted by state regulation. Commercial Lines Segment Reserves For the business lines in the commercial lines insurance segment, the following table shows the breakout of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves: Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent (In millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2004 Commercial multi peril $ 465 $ 123 $ 227 $ 815 27.0 % Workers compensation 258 278 75 611 20.3 Commercial auto 254 58 64 376 12.5 Other liability 288 377 111 776 25.7 All other lines of business 289 19 130 438 14.5 Total $ 1,554 $ 855 $ 607 $ 3,016 100.0 % At December 31, 2003 Commercial multi peril $ 419 $ 82 $ 204 $ 705 24.0 % Workers compensation 240 255 68 563 19.2 Commercial auto 260 66 59 385 13.1 Other liability 284 382 108 774 26.4 All other lines of business 356 13 137 506 17.3 Total $ 1,559 $ 798 $ 576 $ 2,933 100.0 % As a result of underwriting actions taken since 2000 and a generally favorable insurance marketplace, the commercial lines segment has been able to obtain higher premium per exposure. As a result, profitability has improved due to higher revenue on stable loss and loss expenses. 2004 10 K Page 56 Table of Contents The following table provides the amounts of net reserve changes made over the past three years by commercial line of business and accident year: Commercial Workers Commercial Other (Dollars in millions) multi peril compensation auto liability As of December 31, 2004 Accident year: 2003 $ (5 ) $ 5 $ 11 $ 36 2002 2 (1 ) 10 41 2001 5 (6 ) 4 27 2000 4 (3 ) 4 13 1999 0 (2 ) 7 2 1998 1 (1 ) 3 0 1997 and prior (11 ) (7 ) 8 12 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (4 ) $ (15 ) $ 47 $ 131 Reserves as originally estimated $ 691 $ 514 $ 381 $ 635 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2004 695 529 334 504 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (4 ) $ (15 ) $ 47 $ 131 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (0.6 %) (4.9 %) 10.5 % 32.5 % As of December 31, 2003 Accident year: 2002 $ (3 ) $ (1 ) $ 11 $ 36 2001 2 (3 ) 2 15 2000 (10 ) (2 ) 7 5 1999 5 (1 ) 11 6 1998 (2 ) 0 2 3 1997 (2 ) (1 ) 1 5 1996 and prior (3 ) (5 ) 3 9 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (13 ) $ (13 ) $ 37 $ 79 Reserves as originally estimated $ 609 $ 477 $ 383 $ 580 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2003 622 490 346 501 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (13 ) $ (13 ) $ 37 $ 79 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (2.0 %) (4.3 %) 8.8 % 23.0 % As of December 31, 2002 Accident year: 2001 $ (10 ) $ (10 ) $ 13 $ 15 2000 (6 ) (1 ) 2 9 1999 (1 ) 0 0 3 1998 8 (1 ) (1 ) 10 1997 0 2 (1 ) 2 1996 3 0 1 1 1995 and prior 0 1 1 (16 ) Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ 15 $ 24 Reserves as originally estimated $ 542 $ 435 $ 373 $ 486 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2002 548 444 358 462 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (6 ) $ (9 ) $ 15 $ 24 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (1.0 %) (3.1 %) 4.0 % 8.8 % The overall favorable development recorded in the commercial lines reserves illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially in long tail lines such as other liability. With the exception of the UM/UIM reserve releases and other significant changes in assumptions discussed above, commercial lines reserve development over the past three years was consistent with: The initiative, begun in 2001, to establish higher initial case reserves on liability claims in the period in which the claim is reported. Higher than expected medical inflation affecting the workers compensation line Settlements that differed from the established case reserves Changes in case reserves based on new information for specific claims or classes of claims 2004 10 K Page 57 Table of Contents Differences in the timing of actual settlements compared with the payout patterns assumed in the accident year IBNR reductions Personal Lines Segment Reserves For the business lines in the personal lines insurance segment, the following table shows the breakout of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves: Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent (In millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2004 Personal auto $ 181 $ 15 $ 35 $ 231 46.4 % Homeowners 81 21 23 125 25.1 All other lines of business 57 73 12 142 28.5 Total $ 319 $ 109 $ 70 $ 498 100.0 % At December 31, 2003 Personal auto $ 175 $ 16 $ 33 $ 224 49.6 % Homeowners 65 13 16 94 20.7 All other lines of business 48 75 12 135 29.7 Total $ 288 $ 104 $ 61 $ 453 100.0 % The personal lines segment continues to implement rate increases in an effort to restore profitability. Over the past three years, higher than normal catastrophe losses have contributed to the personal lines loss and loss expenses. 2004 10 K Page 58 Table of Contents The following table provides the amounts of net reserve changes made over the past three years by personal line of business and accident year: Personal (Dollars in millions) auto Homeowners As of December 31, 2004 Accident year: 2003 $ (9 ) $ 0 2002 (1 ) 1 2001 3 4 2000 3 1 1999 1 0 1998 1 0 1997 and prior 1 0 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (1 ) $ 6 Reserves as originally estimated $ 224 $ 89 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2004 225 83 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (1 ) $ 6 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (0.02 )% 2.2 % As of December 31, 2003 Accident year: 2002 $ (8 ) $ 2 2001 (4 ) 5 2000 0 0 1999 2 1 1998 0 0 1997 1 0 1996 and prior 0 0 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (9 ) $ 8 Reserves as originally estimated $ 201 $ 96 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2003 210 88 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ (9 ) $ 8 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio (2.1 )% 3.1 % As of December 31, 2002 Accident year: 2001 $ 11 $ (1 ) 2000 (1 ) 2 1999 3 0 1998 4 1 1997 1 0 1996 0 0 1995 and prior 1 0 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ 19 $ 2 Reserves as originally estimated $ 210 $ 81 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2002 191 79 Redundancy/(deficiency) $ 19 $ 2 Impact on loss and loss expense ratio 5.0 % 1.1 % The overall favorable development recorded in the personal lines segment reserves illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. Personal lines reserve development over the past three years was consistent with: Settlements that differed from the established case reserves Changes in case reserves based on new information for specific claims or classes of claims Differences in the timing of actual settlements compared with the payout patterns assumed in the accident year IBNR reductions Life Insurance Segment Reserves The company regularly reviews its life insurance business to ensure that any deferred acquisition cost associated with the business is recoverable and that its actuarial liabilities (life insurance segment reserves) make sufficient provision for future benefits and related expenses. In 2004, deferred acquisition costs were written off and reserves were 2004 10 K Page 59 Table of Contents restated for certain second to die policies following a period of losses in this line. In calculating the revised liabilities, the assumed investment yield was reduced to reflect current economic conditions and the termination rate was adjusted in line with actual experience and reinsurance ceded was calculated directly for each life insurance product, rather than averaging reinsurance costs over several product areas. Long and Short term Debt At December 31, 2004, long term debt was $791 million compared with $420 million at December 31, 2003. The company issued $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior notes due 2034 on November 1, 2004. The $368 million net proceeds from the offering: Paid off $183 million in short term debt. A portion of the short term debt was paid prior to the senior note offering using funds borrowed from the property casualty subsidiary. Proceeds from the offering were used to pay off that inter company loan in addition to paying off the outstanding balance on the lines of credit. Will finance the construction of an estimated $100 million office building and parking garage to be situated at the headquarters located in Fairfield beginning in 2005, as announced in August 2004. Are available for general corporate purposes. The company currently is working to commence an exchange offer with respect to the 6.125% senior notes issued in 2004 under the registration rights agreement entered into in connection with the offering of these notes. Management believes it will meet the timetable for completion of the exchange offer specified in the registration rights agreement. The interest rate of the notes will increase if the company does not comply with certain obligations under the registration rights agreement. In addition, the company has $420 million aggregate principal amount of 6.9% senior debentures due 2028. Neither note is encumbered by rating triggers. The company has minimized its reliance on debt financing although it utilizes lines of credit to fund short term cash needs. As of March 4, 2005, the companys senior debt was rated aa by A.M. Best Co., A by Fitch Ratings, A2 by Moodys Investors Services and A by Standard Poors Rating Services. During 2004, A.M. Best and Standard Poors changed their credit ratings for the senior debt due to their firms respective notching strategies. Notching is a rating organization standard that places an insurers credit rating generally two or three levels below its insurer financial strength rating (see Item 1, Financial Strength Ratings, Page 7, for discussion of the companys insurer financial strength ratings). Notching recognizes that in the event of financial problems, obligations to policyholders would be paid before obligations to creditors. A.M. Best and Standard Poors moved the senior debt credit ratings closer to their standard notching, although Standard Poors commented that CFCs rating still was one level higher than is typical because of the large pool of marketable securities at the holding company. During 2004, the company paid off $183 million of short term debt. At year end 2004, the company had one line of credit totaling $75 million with no outstanding balance. There are no financial covenants on the line of credit. During 2004, the company terminated an interest rate swap entered into by CFC Investment Company in 2001 as a cash hedge of variable interest payments for certain variable rate debt obligations ($31 million notional amount) to better match fixed rate lease assets with liabilities having a fixed financing rate. Under this interest rate swap contract, the company agreed to pay a fixed rate of interest for a seven year period. The contract was considered to be a hedge against changes in the amount of future cash flows associated with the related interest payments. When the company paid off the underlying debt, it terminated this agreement at a cost of $2 million, net of tax. Interest expense on the companys short and long term debt was $38 million (pretax), or 14 cents per share (after tax), in 2004, which excludes interest expense on inter company debt. Assuming the company had issued the 6.125% senior notes on January 1, 2004, and used the proceeds as indicated, management estimates interest expense would have been $52 million (pretax), or 20 cents per share (after tax), in 2004. Off balance Sheet Arrangements The company had no off balance sheet arrangements (defined for purposes of applicable SEC rules) at year end 2004. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook Management anticipates investing approximately $15 million in key technology initiatives in 2005, primarily for its claims management and commercial lines policy processing systems (see Item 1, Property Casualty Insurance Operations, Page 1, for discussion of the technology initiatives underway). Capitalized development costs related to key technology initiatives totaled $14 million in 2004. These activities are conducted at managements discretion and no material contractual obligations exist for activities planned as part of these projects. In addition, material commitments for computer hardware and software, including maintenance contracts on hardware and other known obligations, are expected to require approximately $13 million over the next five years. The construction of an office building and parking garage to be situated at the headquarters located in Fairfield is expected to require approximately $100 million over a four year period. On January 6, 2005, the company entered into a cost plus contract with Messer Construction Co. for design build services in connection with the project. The company 2004 10 K Page 60 Table of Contents currently is working with Messer on design modifications that will be used to determine the final project cost. Construction preparation began in the first quarter of 2005 with completion estimated by September 2008. At December 31, 2004, the company estimated its future contractual obligations as follows: Payment due by period Within Years Years More than (In millions) 1 year 2 3 4 5 5 years Total Contractual obligations: Net property casualty loss and loss expense reserves $ 1,013 $ 1,077 $ 428 $ 459 $ 2,977 Net life loss expense reserves 7 0 0 0 7 Headquarters building expansion 21 53 26 0 100 Computer hardware and software 7 5 1 1 14 Annuitization obligations 23 74 50 36 183 Long term debt 0 0 0 795 795 Interest on long term debt 52 104 104 1,099 1,359 Other invested assets 2 4 1 0 7 Total $ 1,125 $ 1,317 $ 610 $ 2,390 $ 5,442 Estimated material commitments for net property casualty loss and loss expense reserves represented approximately 55 percent of the estimated contractual obligations as of December 31, 2004. The company directs its staff to settle claims and pay losses as quickly as practical and made $1.621 billion in net claim payments during 2004. As of December 31, 2004, the company had net property casualty reserves of $2.977 billion, reflecting $1.522 billion in unpaid amounts on reported claims (case reserves), $634 million in loss expense reserves and $821 million in estimates of IBNR claims. The specific amounts and timing of obligations related to case reserves and related loss expenses are not set contractually. The amounts and timing of obligations for IBNR claims and related loss expenses are unknown. Nonetheless, based on cumulative property casualty claims paid over the last ten years, the company anticipates that approximately 34 percent of property casualty reserves will be paid within one year, an additional 36 percent between one and three years, 14 percent between three and five years, and 16 percent in more than five years. While management believes that historical performance of loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claims payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. The historic pattern of using premium receipts for the payment of loss and loss expenses has enabled the company to extend slightly the maturities of the investment portfolio beyond the estimated settlement date of the loss reserves. The effective duration to maturity of the companys fixed income portfolio was 6.9 years at December 31, 2004. By contrast, at December 31, 2004, the duration of the companys loss and loss expense reserves was 3.0 years and the duration of all liabilities was 2.7 years. Management believes this difference in duration does not affect the companys ability to meet its current obligations because cash flow from operations is sufficient to meet these obligations. In addition, the companys investment strategy has led to substantial unrealized gains from holdings in equity securities. These equity holdings could be liquidated to meet higher than anticipated loss and loss expenses. Management believes that the insurance subsidiaries maintain sufficient liquidity to pay claims and operating expenses, as well as meet commitments in the event of unforeseen circumstances such as catastrophe losses, reinsurer insolvencies, changes in the timing of claims payments, increases in claims severity, reserve deficiencies or inadequate premium rates. Management believes catastrophic events are the most likely cause of an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency. Management believes the effect on future liquidity of these items may be offset by: Reinsurance The companys property catastrophe reinsurance program mitigates the liquidity risk of an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event. The companys current catastrophe reinsurance treaties provide coverage for gross losses up to $500 million (see Item 1, Reinsurance, Page 6, for a summary of the companys reinsurance agreements). Under the terms of the catastrophe reinsurance treaties, the company retains the first $25 million in losses, 40 percent of the next $20 million in losses and 5 percent of losses from $45 million to $500 million, resulting in a maximum cash outlay of $56 million for gross losses up to $500 million. The companys reinsurance treaties are with highly rated firms with which the company has done business for a number of years. Reinsurance does not relieve the company of its obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of the companys reinsurers is important because the companys ability to recover for losses under one of the reinsurance agreements depends on the financial viability of the reinsurer. Financial strength As discussed above, the company anticipates that approximately 34 percent of property casualty insurance reserves will be paid within one year, an additional 36 percent between one and three years, 14 percent between three and five years, and 16 percent in more than five years. These timings are based on cumulative property casualty claims paid over the last 10 years. While management believes that historical 2004 10 K Page 61 Table of Contents performance of loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claims payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. Management believes that it could meet its obligations under a significant and unexpected change in the timing of these payments because of the liquidity of the companys invested assets, strong financial position and access to lines of credit. Financial resources On August 26, 2004, the company announced that Cincinnati Financial Corporation transferred approximately 31.8 million shares of Fifth Third common stock to The Cincinnati Insurance Company, the property casualty insurance subsidiary. This action was related to the companys June 28, 2004, application to the SEC seeking exemptive relief under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The transfer was authorized by Cincinnati Financials board of directors on August 13, 2004, and approved by the Ohio Department of Insurance on August 24, 2004. The asset transfer resolved the holding companys current status under the Investment Company Act. See Item 1, Regulation, Page 15, for discussion of the risks associated with the application for exemptive relief. If it were to be determined that the company was an unregistered investment company before the asset transfer, Cincinnati Financial could be unable to enforce contracts undertaken with third parties during the period that it was an unregistered investment company. Third parties could seek to rescind transactions undertaken with Cincinnati Financial during that period. As a result, it could be determined that holders of Cincinnati Financials $420 million aggregate principal amount of 6.9% Senior Debentures due 2028 have a right to rescind such indebtedness, thereby requiring Cincinnati Financial to immediately repay such amounts. However, equitable considerations set forth in the Investment Company Act could support the companys right to enforce contracts and could limit or prevent third parties ability to rescind a transaction. However, Cincinnati Financial currently has available sufficient assets or could access the capital markets to fund such repayment and believes that its assets are adequate to meet its short and long term obligations. In the event the company chose to access the capital markets, current market conditions would dictate the rate on new debt, which could be higher than the 6.9 percent currently paid on the debt. Shareholders Equity Overview Total shareholders equity was 38.8 percent and 40.0 percent of total assets at year end 2004 and 2003, respectively. As a long term investor, the company has followed a buy and hold strategy for more than 40 years. A significant amount of unrealized appreciation on equity investments has been generated as a result of this policy. Unrealized appreciation on equity investments, before deferred income taxes, was $5.553 billion and $6.001 billion at year end 2004 and 2003, respectively. On an after tax basis, it constituted 57.8 percent of total shareholders equity at year end 2004. Unrealized gains in the investment portfolio (accumulated other comprehensive income) from long term appreciation and investment of cash flows have resulted in year end 2004 shareholders equity of $6.249 billion. Investments at the parent company give management flexibility to support its capitalization policies for the subsidiaries, improve the ability of the insurance companies to write additional premiums and maintain high ratings. Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2004 2003 2002 Common stock, paid in capital less treasury stock $ 405 $ 134 $ 183 Retained earnings 2,057 1,986 1,772 Accumulated other comprehensive income 3,787 4,084 3,643 Total $ 6,249 $ 6,204 $ 5,598 Comprehensive Income During the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002, the company had realized investment gains before taxes of $147 million, $81 million and $58 million offset by realized investment losses of $56 million, $122 million and $152 million, respectively. At December 31, 2004, unrealized investment gains before taxes totaled $5.857 billion and unrealized investment losses in the investment portfolio amounted to $17 million. The unrealized appreciation was primarily due to the companys holdings in Fifth Third (Nasdaq:FITB) and Alltel Corporation (NYSE:AT) common stock. 2004 10 K Page 62 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Introduction Market risk is the potential for a decrease in securities value resulting from broad yet uncontrollable forces such as: inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions or other widespread unpredictable events. It is comprised of many individual risks that, when combined, create a macroeconomic impact. The company accepts and manages risks in the investment portfolio as part of the means of achieving portfolio objectives. Some of the risks are: Political the potential for a decrease in market value due to the real or perceived impact of governmental policies or conditions Regulatory the potential for a decrease in market value due to the impact of legislative proposals or changes in laws or regulations Economic the potential for a decrease in value due to changes in general economic factors (recession, inflation, deflation, etc.) Revaluation the potential for a decrease in market value due to a change in relative value (change in market multiple) of the market brought on by general economic factors Interest rate the potential for a decrease in market value of a security or portfolio due to its sensitivity to changes (increases or decreases) in the general level of interest rates Company specific risk is the potential for a particular issuer to experience a decline in valuation due to the impact of sector or market risk on the holding or because of issues specific to the firm: Fraud the potential for a negative impact on an issuers performance due to actual or alleged illegal or improper activity of individuals it employs Credit the potential for deterioration in an issuers financial profile due to specific company issues, problems it faces in the course of its operations or industry related issues Default the possibility that an issuer will not make a required payment (interest payment or return of principal) on its debt. Generally this occurs after its financial profile has deteriorated (credit risk) and it no longer has the means to make its payments The investment committee of the board of directors monitors the investment risk management process primarily through its executive oversight of investment activities. The company takes an active approach to managing market and other investment risks, including the accountabilities and controls over these activities. Actively managing these market risks is integral to the companys operations and could require a change in the character of future investments purchased or sold or require a shift in the existing asset portfolios to manage exposure to market risk within acceptable ranges. The approach is applied daily by the companys portfolio managers and analysts to each of the five asset classes in which the company invests. Sector risk is the potential for a negative impact on a particular industry due to its sensitivity to factors that make up market risk. Market risk affects general supply/demand factors for an industry and will affect companies within that industry to varying degrees. Risks associated with the five asset classes described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, can be summarized as follows (H high, A average, L low): Investment grade High yield Tax exempt Common Convertible corporate bonds corporate bonds municipal bonds stocks securities Political A A H A A Regulatory A A A A A Economic A H A H H Revaluation A H A H A Interest rate H A H A A Fraud A A L A A Credit A H L A A Default L H L A A Fixed income Securities For investment grade corporate bonds, the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices leads to falling bond values during periods of increasing interest rates. Although the potential for a worsening financial condition, and ultimately default, does exist with investment grade corporate bonds, their higher quality financial profiles make credit risk less of a concern than for lower quality investments. The company addresses this risk by consistently investing 2004 10 K Page 63 Table of Contents within a particular maturity range, which has, over the years, provided the portfolio with a laddered maturity schedule, which management believes is less subject to large swings in value due to interest rate changes. While a single maturity range may see values drop due to general interest rate levels, other maturity ranges will be less affected by those changes. Additionally, purchases are spread across a wide spectrum of industries and companies, diversifying the companys holdings and minimizing the impact of specific industries or companies with greater sensitivities to interest rate fluctuations. The primary risk related to high yield corporate bonds is credit risk or the potential for a deteriorating financial structure. A weak financial profile can lead to rating downgrades from the credit rating agencies, which can put further downward pressure on bond prices. Interest rate risk is less of a factor with high yield corporate bonds, as valuation is related more directly to underlying operating performance than to general interest rates. This puts more emphasis on the financial results achieved by the issuer rather than general economic trends or statistics within the marketplace. The company addresses this concern by analyzing issuer and industry specific financial results and by closely monitoring holdings within this asset class. The primary risks related to tax exempt bonds are interest rate risk and geo political risk associated with the specific economic environment within the political boundaries of the issuing municipal entity. The company addresses these concerns by focusing on municipalities general obligation debt and on essential service bonds. Essential service bonds derive a revenue stream from the services provided by the municipality, which are vital to the people living in the area (schools, water service, sewer service, etc.). Another risk related to tax exempt bonds is regulatory risk or the potential for legislative changes that would negate the benefit of owning tax exempt bonds. The company monitors regulatory activity for situations that may negatively affect current holdings and its ongoing strategy for investing in these securities. The final, less significant risk is a small exposure to credit risk for a portion of the tax exempt portfolio that has support from corporate entities. Examples are bonds insured by corporate bond insurers or bonds with interest payments made by a corporate entity through a municipal conduit/authority. While decisions regarding these investments primarily consider the underlying municipal situation, the existence of third party insurance reduces risk in the event of default. In circumstances in which the municipality is unable to meet its obligations, risk would be increased if the insuring entity were experiencing financial duress. Because of the companys diverse exposure and selection of higher rated entities with strong financial profiles, the company does not believe this is a material concern. Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Because of the companys strong surplus, long term investment horizon and its ability to hold most fixed income investments until maturity, management believes the company is well positioned if interest rates were to rise. A higher rate environment would provide the opportunity to invest cash flow in higher yielding securities, while reducing the likelihood of calls of the higher yielding U.S. agency paper purchased over the past year. While higher interest rates would be expected to continue to increase the number of fixed income holdings trading below 100 percent of book value, management believes lower fixed income security values due solely to interest rate changes would not signal a decline in credit quality. The company is using a dynamic financial planning model developed during 2002 to further incorporate analytical tools in assessing market risks. Management believes the model is improving the companys ability to measure the impact on bond values resulting from changes in interest rates. Improved measurement of the impact of interest rate changes should allow for improved matching of the companys assets and liabilities. The company measures modified duration to both the call date and maturity. The table below summarizes modified duration and shows the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates on the market value of the fixed income portfolio under both modified duration scenarios: Market value Modified duration to maturity Modified duration to call of fixed 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis 100 basis income bond point spread point spread point spread point spread (In millions) portfolio decrease increase decrease increase At December 31, 2004 $ 5,141 $ 5,516 $ 4,766 $ 5,397 $ 4,885 At December 31, 2003 $ 4,232 $ 4,553 $ 3,912 $ 4,458 $ 4,007 The duration to maturity of the companys bond portfolio is currently 6.9 years and the duration to maturity of the redeemable preferred portfolio is currently 8.9 years. A 100 basis point movement in interest rates would result in an approximately 7.3 percent change in the market value of the combined portfolios. Generally speaking, the higher a bonds rating, the more directly correlated movements in its market value will be to changes in the general level of interest rates. Therefore, the municipal bond portfolio is more likely to respond to a changing interest rate scenario. The companys U.S. agency paper portfolio, because it generally has very little call protection, has a low duration and would not be expected to be as responsive to rate movements. Lower investment grade and high yield corporate bond values are driven by credit spreads, as well as their durations, in response to interest rate movements. 2004 10 K Page 64 Table of Contents In the dynamic financial planning model, the selected interest rate change of 100 basis points represents managements views of a shift in rates that is quite possible over a one year period. The rates modeled should not be considered a prediction of future events as interest rates may be much more volatile in the future. The analysis is not intended to provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in rates on the companys results or financial condition, nor does it take into account any actions that might be taken to reduce exposure to such risks. Equity and Equity linked Securities Common stocks are subject to a variety of risk factors encompassed under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying industries and companies within those industries. A downturn in the economy will have a negative impact on an equity portfolio. Industry and company specific risks have the potential to substantially affect the market value of the companys equity portfolio. The company addresses these risks by maintaining investments in a small group of holdings that management can analyze closely, better understanding their business and the related risk factors. At December 31, 2004, the company held 14 individual equity positions valued at approximately $100 million or above, see Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 13, for additional details on these holdings. These equity positions accounted for approximately 91.5 percent of the unrealized appreciation of the entire portfolio. Management believes the companys equity investment style centered on companies that pay and increase dividends to shareholders is an appropriate long term strategy. While the companys long term financial position would be affected by prolonged changes in the market valuation of its investments, management believes the companys strong surplus position and cash flow provide it with a cushion against short term fluctuations in valuation. The company believes that the continued payment of cash dividends by the issuers of the common equities held by the company also should provide a floor to their valuation. The companys investments are heavily weighted toward the financials sector, which represented 65.9 percent of the total market value of the common stock portfolio at December 31, 2004. Financials sector investments typically underperform the overall market during periods when interest rates are expected to rise. Management historically has seen these types of short term fluctuations in market value of its holdings as potential buying opportunities but is cognizant that a prolonged downturn in this sector could create a long term negative effect on the portfolio. While past performance cannot guarantee future returns, over the longer term, the performance of the companys equity portfolio has exceeded that of the broader market, achieving a compound annual total return of 3.2 percent for the five years ended December 31, 2004, compared with a compound annual decline of 2.3 percent for the Standard Poors 500 Index, a common benchmark of market performance. In 2004, the equity portfolio underperformed the market, with a total return of a negative 1.9 percent, compared with the Standard Poors 500s return of 10.9 percent, primarily because of market value fluctuations in its common stock holdings of Fifth Third. The primary risk related to convertible securities is similar to other corporate fixed income securities in terms of their sensitivity to interest rates, credit risk and default risk. The better the financial condition of the underlying issuer, the lower the credit risk. However, the pricing of convertible securities is more likely to be driven by the relationship of the underlying common stock price to the strike price of the embedded option. If the underlying stock price is well below the strike price, the convertible security will trade more like a pure fixed income instrument and be more interest rate sensitive. However, as the underlying stock approaches the option strike price, the convertible will be less interest rate sensitive and more responsive to movements in the stock. Fifth Third Bancorp Holding The company held 72.8 million shares of Fifth Third common stock at a cost of $283 million at December 31, 2004. The market value of the companys Fifth Third position was $3.443 billion at year end 2004, or 46.1 percent of the companys total common equity portfolio, compared with $4.301 billion, or 52.7 percent, at year end 2003. The after tax unrealized gain represented by the companys Fifth Third position was $2.054 billion, or 54.1 percent of the companys total after tax unrealized gains at year end 2004, compared with $2.612 billion, or 63.8 percent, at year end 2003. The Fifth Third position represented $12.28 of the companys total book value of $37.38 per share at year end 2004, compared with $15.51 at year end 2003. Every $1.00 change in the market price of Fifth Thirds common stock has approximately a 28 cent impact on book value per share. A 20 percent ($9.46) change in the market price of Fifth Thirds common stock, which was $47.30 at December 31, 2004, would result in a $689 million change in assets and a $448 million change in after tax unrealized gains. This would affect shareholders equity by 7.2 percent and book value by $2.68 per share. Fifth Thirds value over the past two years was affected by uncertainty surrounding a regulatory review that was concluded in early 2004. Fifth Third continues to meet Cincinnati Financials investing criteria. Cincinnati Financial management and the investment committee of the board of directors review the Fifth Third holding on a continual basis. 2004 10 K Page 65 Table of Contents Unrealized Investment gains and Losses At December 31, 2004, unrealized investment gains before taxes totaled $5.857 billion and unrealized investment losses in the investment portfolio amounted to $17 million. Unrealized Investment Gains The unrealized gains at year end 2004 were primarily due to long term gains from the companys holdings in the common stock of Fifth Third (Nasdaq: FITB) and Alltel Corporation (NYSE:AT). Reflecting the companys long term investment philosophy, of the 1,385 securities trading at or above book value, 761, or 54.9 percent, have shown unrealized gains for more than 24 months. Unrealized Investment Losses Potential Other than temporary Impairments The asset impairment policy evaluates significant decreases in the market value of the assets; changes in legal factors or in the business climate; or other such factors indicating whether or not the carrying amount may be recoverable. A declining trend in market value, the extent of the market value decline and the length of time in which the value has been depressed are objective measures that can be outweighed by subjective measures such as impending events and issuer liquidity. Impairment is evaluated in the event of a declining market value for four consecutive quarters with quarter end market value below 50 percent of book value or a market value 50 percent below book value for three consecutive quarters. In addition to applying the impairment policy, the status of the portfolio is constantly monitored by the companys portfolio managers for indications of potential problems or issues that may be possible impairment issues. If an impairment indicator is noted, the portfolio managers even more closely scrutinize the security. The number of securities trading below 100 percent of book value at December 31, 2004, was above the number at December 31, 2003. The number of securities trading below 100 percent of book value can be expected to fluctuate as interest rates rise or fall. In addition, the portfolio benefited from continued improvements in the credit quality of the bond portfolio, as rated by Standard Poors and Moodys. Further, book values for some securities have been revised due to impairment charges recognized during 2003 and 2002. During 2004, four securities were written down as other than temporarily impaired. A total of 208 holdings were trading below book value at December 31, 2004, representing 7.0 percent of invested assets and $17 million in unrealized losses. Management deems the risk related to securities trading between 70 percent and 100 percent of book value to be relatively minor and at least partially offset by the earned income potential of these investments. Two hundred of these holdings were trading between 90 percent and 100 percent of book value at December 31, 2004. The value of these securities fluctuates primarily because of changes in interest rates. The market value of these 200 securities was $856 million at December 31, 2004, and they accounted for $11 million in unrealized losses. Eight of these holdings were trading below 90 percent of book value at December 31, 2004. The market value of these holdings was $27 million at December 31, 2004, and they accounted for the remaining $6 million in unrealized losses. These holdings are being monitored for credit and industry related risk factors. Of these securities, three are airline related. Holdings trading below 70 percent of book value are monitored for potential other than temporary impairment. At December 31, 2004, no holdings were trading below 70 percent of book value. At year end 2003, two securities with a combined book value of $70 thousand were trading below 70 percent of book value. As discussed in Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 27, when evaluating other than temporary impairments, management considers the companys ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover a substantial portion of its cost. Because of the companys investment philosophy and strong capitalization, it can hold securities until their scheduled redemption that might otherwise be deemed impaired as management evaluates their potential for recovery based economic, industry or company factors. While management does not forecast realized investment gains and losses, it believes that impairment charges in 2005 will be minimal. Every security in the portfolio was trading at or above 75 percent of book value at December 31, 2004. Management believes impairments should be limited to securities marked to market because they have been identified for sale, or those where issuer specific events cause sharp declines in market value with little or no warning. 2004 10 K Page 66 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the portfolio by period of time: (Dollars in millions) 6 Months or less 6 12 Months 12 24 Months 24 36 Months Gross Gross Gross Gross Number of unrealized Number of unrealized Number of unrealized Number of unrealized issues gain/loss issues gain/loss issues gain/loss issues gain/loss Investment grade corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 34 0 31 (4 ) 3 (1 ) 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 112 8 9 1 56 14 274 111 Total 146 $ 8 40 $ (3 ) 59 $ 13 274 $ 111 High yield corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 3 0 1 0 5 (2 ) 3 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 26 3 7 1 57 21 31 7 Total 29 $ 3 8 $ 1 62 $ 19 34 $ 7 Tax exempt municipal bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 73 (1 ) 32 (1 ) 5 (1 ) 3 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 224 8 30 2 37 7 407 59 Total 297 $ 7 62 $ 1 42 $ 6 410 $ 59 Convertible securities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 2 0 3 (1 ) 1 0 3 (1 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 15 4 7 4 23 22 24 32 Total 17 $ 4 10 $ 3 24 $ 22 27 $ 31 Common stocks: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 4 (4 ) 1 0 1 (1 ) 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 6 1 1 6 14 56 25 5,490 Total 10 $ (3 ) 2 $ 6 15 $ 55 25 $ 5,490 Summary: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 116 (5 ) 68 (6 ) 15 (5 ) 9 (1 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 383 24 54 14 187 120 761 5,699 Total 499 $ 19 122 $ 8 202 $ 115 770 $ 5,698 2004 10 K Page 67 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the portfolio: (Dollars in millions) Gross Gross Number unrealized investment of issues Book value Market value gain/loss income At December 31, 2004 Investment grade corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 68 478 474 (4 ) 17 Trading at 100% and above of book value 451 2,062 2,196 134 110 Securities sold in current year 11 Total 519 $ 2,540 $ 2,670 $ 130 $ 138 High yield corporate bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 12 24 22 (2 ) 2 Trading at 100% and above of book value 121 300 333 33 26 Securities sold in current year 12 Total 133 $ 324 $ 355 $ 31 $ 40 Tax exempt municipal bonds: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 113 257 253 (4 ) 4 Trading at 100% and above of book value 698 1,365 1,441 76 61 Securities sold in current year 3 Total 811 $ 1,622 $ 1,694 $ 72 $ 68 Convertible securities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 9 58 56 (2 ) 3 Trading at 100% and above of book value 69 337 399 62 21 Securities sold in current year 5 Total 78 $ 395 $ 455 $ 60 $ 29 Common stocks: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 6 83 78 (5 ) 6 Trading at 100% and above of book value 46 1,835 7,387 5,552 209 Securities sold in current year 1 Total 52 $ 1,918 $ 7,465 $ 5,547 $ 216 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 208 900 883 (17 ) 32 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,385 5,899 11,756 5,857 427 Securities sold in current year 32 Total 1,593 $ 6,799 $ 12,639 $ 5,840 $ 491 At December 31, 2003 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 2 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 116 672 648 (24 ) 25 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,286 5,484 11,801 6,317 402 Securities sold in current year 35 Total 1,404 $ 6,156 $ 12,449 $ 6,293 $ 462 2004 10 K Page 68 Table of Contents 
 
