Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The purpose of Managements Discussion and Analysis is to provide an understanding of Cincinnati Financial Corporations consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our Managements Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, Pages 34 and 35, and Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes, beginning on Page 91. We present per share data on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted, adjusting those amounts for all stock splits and stock dividends. We begin with an executive summary of our results of operations and outlook, as well as details on critical accounting policies and estimates. Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can give information on our performance within the context of the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M. Best, a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and financial strength rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory basis. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Executive Summary Through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Financial Corporation is one of the 25 largest property casualty insurers in the nation, based on written premium volume for approximately 2,000 U.S. stock and mutual insurer groups. We market our insurance products through a select group of independent insurance agencies in 35 states as discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Page 1. Although 2008 was a difficult year for our economy, our industry and our company, our long term perspective lets us address the immediate challenges while focusing on the major decisions that best position the company for success through all market cycles. We believe that this forward looking view has consistently benefited our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates. To measure our progress, we have defined a measure of value creation that we believe captures the contribution of our insurance operations, the success of our investment strategy and the importance we place on paying cash dividends to shareholders. Between 2010 and 2014, we expect the total of 1) our rate of growth in book value per share plus 2) the ratio of dividends declared per share to beginning book value per share to average 12 percent to 15 percent. With the current economic and market uncertainty, we believe this ratio is an appropriate way to measure our long term progress in creating value. When looking at our longer term objectives, we see three performance drivers: Premium growth We believe over any five year period our agency relationships and initiatives can lead to a property casualty written premium growth rate that exceeds the industry average. The compound annual growth rate of our net written premiums was 1.3 percent over the past five years, equal to the estimated growth rate for a broad group of standard market property casualty insurance companies. Combined ratio We believe our underwriting philosophy and initiatives can generate a GAAP combined ratio over any five year period that is consistently below 100 percent. Our GAAP combined ratio has averaged 92.8 percent over the past five years. Our combined ratio was below 100 percent in each year during the period, except 2008 when we experienced a record level of catastrophe losses as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49. Our statutory combined ratio averaged 92.6 percent over the same period compared with an estimated 98.5 percent for the same industry group. Investment contribution We believe our investment philosophy and initiatives can drive investment income growth and lead to a total return on our equity investment portfolio over a five year period that exceeds the five year return of the Standard Poors 500 Index. o Investment income growth has averaged 2.9 percent over the past five years. It grew in each year except 2008 when we experienced a dramatic reduction in dividend payouts by financial services companies held in our equity portfolio, a risk we addressed aggressively during 2008. o Over the five years ended December 31, 2008, our compound annual equity portfolio return was a negative 9.0 percent compared with a compound annual total return of a negative 2.1 percent for the Index. Our equity portfolio underperformed the market for the five year period primarily because of the decline in the market value of our previously large holdings in the financial services sector. In 2008, our compound annual equity portfolio return was a negative 31.5 percent, compared with a negative 36.9 percent for the Index. The board of directors is committed to rewarding shareholders directly through cash dividends and through share repurchase authorization. The board also has periodically declared stock dividends and splits. Through Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 37 Table of Contents 2008, the company has increased the indicated annual cash dividend rate for 48 consecutive years, a record we believe is matched by only 11 other publicly traded companies. While seeing merit in continuing that record, in February 2009, our board indicated its first priority was assuring continued financial strength for the company and that its intention was to consider the potential for a 49th year of increase over the course of 2009. We discuss our financial position in more detail in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Page 70. Strategic Initiatives Highlights Management has worked with the board of directors to identify the strategies that can lead to long term success. Our strategies are intended to position us to compete successfully in the markets we have targeted while minimizing risk. We believe successful implementation of the initiatives that support our strategies will help us better serve our agent customers, reduce volatility in our financial results and weather difficult economic, market or pricing cycles. Preserve capital Implementation of these initiatives is intended to preserve our capital and liquidity so that we can successfully grow our insurance business. A strong capital position provides the capacity to support premium growth and provides the liquidity to sustain our investment in the people and infrastructure needed to implement our other strategic initiatives. Improve insurance profitability Implementation of these operational initiatives is intended to support improved cash flow and profitable growth for the agencies that represent us and for our company. These initiatives primarily seek to strengthen our relationships with agents, allowing them to serve clients faster and manage expenses better. Others may streamline our internal processes so we can devote more resources to agent service. Drive premium growth Implementation of these operational initiatives is intended to expand our geographic footprint and diversify our premium sources to obtain profitable growth without significant infrastructure expense. Diversified growth also may reduce our catastrophe exposure risk. We discuss each of these strategies, along with the metrics we use to assess their progress, in Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 7, Factors Influencing Our Future Performance In January and February of 2009, storms affecting our policyholders largely in the Midwest currently are estimated to have resulted in about $30 million of reported claims, which will be included in first quarter pretax catastrophe losses. This estimate does not take into account development of these catastrophes, any further catastrophe activity that may occur in the remainder of the first quarter of 2009 or potential development from events in prior periods. In 2008, the rate of growth in book value plus the rate of dividend contribution was below our target, as discussed in the review of our financial highlights below. In 2009, we believe our value creation ratio may also be below our long term target for several reasons. The weak economy is expected to continue to affect policyholders by deflating their business and personal insurable assets. Until the economy begins to recover, we also do not expect to see significant appreciation of our investments. Lingering effects of soft insurance market pricing are expected to affect growth rates and earned premium levels into 2010, continuing to weaken loss ratios and hamper near term profitability. Economic factors, including inflation, may increase our claims and settlement expenses related to medical care, litigation and construction. Property casualty written premium growth may lag as our growth initiatives need more time to reach their full contribution. We will incur the cost of continued investment in our business, including technology, new states and process initiatives to create long term value. In addition, we will not see the full advantage of many of our investments in technology until 2010 and beyond. Diversification of the investment portfolio over the past year included sales of selected positions to lock in gains, reduce concentrations and increase liquidity. Proceeds of sales are being reinvested in both fixed income and in equity securities with yields that we believe are likely to be more secure. This may slow the return to growth in investment income although we believe year over year comparisons may turn positive in the second half of the year. We expect to continue to make changes to the portfolio, as appropriate. Our view of the value we can create over the next five years relies on two assumptions about the external environment. First, were anticipating some firming of commercial insurance pricing during 2009. Second, we believe that the economy and financial markets can resume a growth track by the end of 2010. If those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, we may not be able to achieve our performance targets even if we accomplish our strategic objectives. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 38 Table of Contents Other factors that could influence our ability to achieve our targets include: We expect the insurance marketplace to remain competitive, which is likely to cause carriers to pursue strategies that they believe could lead to economies of scale, market share gains or the potential for an improved competitive posture. Direct writers will continue to be a factor in the personal insurance market. We expect the independent insurance agency system to remain strong and viable, with continued agency consolidation, especially as agency margins come under more pressure due to soft pricing and the difficult economic environment. The soft commercial market that has extended into 2009 creates additional risk for agencies. We expect the soft market to continue, particularly in non catastrophe event prone states and lines of business, absent a significant event or events. We expect initiatives that make it easier for agents to do business with us will continue to be a significant factor in agency relationships, with technology being a major driver. Policyholders will increasingly demand online services and access from agents or carriers. We discuss in our Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 25, many potential risks to our business and our ability to achieve our qualitative and quantitative objectives. These are real risks, but their probability of occurring may not be high. We also believe that our risk management programs generally can mitigate their potential effects, in the event they do occur. We have formal risk management programs overseen by a senior officer and supported by a team of representatives from business areas. The team reports to our chairman, our president and chief executive officer and our board of directors, as appropriate, on detailed and summary risk assessments, risk metrics and risk plans. Our use of operational audits, strategic plans and departmental business plans, as well as our culture of open communications and our fundamental respect for our code of conduct, continue to help us manage risks on an ongoing basis. Below we review highlights of our financial results for the past three years. Detailed discussion of these topics appears in Results of Operations, Page 48, and Liquidity and Capital Resources, Page 70. Corporate Financial Highlights The value creation ratio discussed in the Executive Summary, Page 37, was a negative 23.5 percent in 2008, a negative 5.7 percent in 2007 and a positive 16.7 percent in 2006. In both 2008 and 2007, a decline in unrealized gains on our investment portfolio was the most significant factor in the decline in book value as discussed below. In 2008, net income also was significantly below the level of the prior two years. Cash dividends declared per share rose 9.9 percent in 2008, 6.0 percent in 2007 and 11.2 percent in 2006. Balance Sheet Data and Performance Measures (Dollars in millions except share data) At December 31, At December 31, At December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Balance sheet data Invested assets $ 8,890 $ 12,261 $ 13,759 Total assets 13,369 16,637 17,222 Short term debt 49 69 49 Long term debt 791 791 791 Shareholders equity 4,182 5,929 6,808 Book value per share 25.75 35.70 39.38 Debt to capital ratio 16.7 % 12.7 % 11.0 % Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Performance measures Value creation ratio (23.5) % (5.7) % 16.7 % Invested assets declined because of lower fair values for portfolio investments, largely due to economic factors. The downturn in the economy had a particularly adverse effect on our financial sector equity holdings, which made up a significant portion of the portfolio prior to mid 2008. By year end 2008, the portfolio was substantially more diversified and generally better positioned to withstand short term fluctuations. We discuss our investment strategy in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 17, and results for the segment in Investments Results of Operations, Page 66. Our ratio of debt to total capital (debt plus shareholders equity) rose over the three years due to the effect on shareholders equity of the declining value of our invested assets. Long term debt was unchanged over the period. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 39 Table of Contents Income Statement and Per Share Data (Dollars in millions except share data) Twelve months ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Income statement data Earned premiums $ 3,136 $ 3,250 $ 3,278 (3.5 ) (0.9 ) Investment income, net of expenses 537 608 570 (11.6 ) 6.6 Realized investment gains and losses (pretax) 138 382 684 (64.0 ) (44.1 ) Total revenues 3,824 4,259 4,550 (10.2 ) (6.4 ) Net income 429 855 930 (49.9 ) (8.0 ) Per share data (diluted) Net income $ 2.62 $ 4.97 $ 5.30 (47.3 ) (6.2 ) Cash dividends declared 1.56 1.42 1.34 9.9 6.0 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding 163,362,409 172,167,452 175,451,341 (5.1 ) (1.9 ) Net income declined in 2008 from the higher levels of the prior two years because of a three year decline in realized investment gains, a first ever decline in investment income and a lower aggregate contribution from our insurance segments. The pension plan settlement reduced 2008 net income by $17 million, or 11 cents per share. The transition from a defined benefit pension plan reduces company risk while providing flexible, company sponsored 401(k) benefit to associates. Weighted average shares outstanding may fluctuate from period to period because we repurchase shares under board authorizations and we issue shares when associates exercise stock options. Weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis declined 9 million in 2008, 3 million in 2007 and 2 million in 2006. As discussed in Investments Results of Operation, Page 66, security sales led to realized investment gains in all three years, although 2008 gains were tempered by $510 million in other than temporary impairment charges. Realized investment gains and losses are integral to our financial results over the long term. We have substantial discretion in the timing of investment sales and, therefore, the gains or losses that are recognized in any period. That discretion generally is independent of the insurance underwriting process. Also, applicable accounting standards require us to recognize gains and losses from certain changes in fair values of securities and for securities with embedded derivatives without actual realization of those gains and losses. Lower income from dividends led to an 11.6 percent decline in net investment income in 2008, the first decline in this measure in company history. The primary reason for the decline was dividend reductions by common and preferred holdings, including reductions during the year on positions subsequently sold or reduced. Contribution from Insurance Segments (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Consolidated property casualty highlights Written premiums $ 3,010 $ 3,117 $ 3,178 (3.4 ) (1.9 ) Earned premiums 3,010 3,125 3,164 (3.7 ) (1.2 ) Underwriting profit (loss) (17 ) 304 181 (105.6 ) 68.3 Pt. Change Pt. Change GAAP combined ratio 100.6 % 90.3 % 94.3 % 10.3 (4.0 ) Statutory combined ratio 100.4 90.3 93.9 10.1 (3.6 ) Written premium to statutory surplus 0.9 0.7 0.7 0.2 0.0 The trend in overall written premium growth reflected the competitive and market factors discussed in Item 1, Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 11 and Page 14. In 2008, our property casualty insurance operations reported an underwriting loss after achieving record profitability in 2007. Underwriting profitability can be measured by the combined ratio. (The combined ratio is the percentage of each earned premium dollar spent on claims plus all expenses the lower the ratio, the better the performance.) In 2008 and 2007, higher savings from favorable development on prior period reserves helped offset other loss and loss expenses. Catastrophe losses fluctuated dramatically over the three year period, making an unusually high contribution of 6.8 percentage points to the combined ratio in 2008 after an unusually low 0.8 points in 2007. The pension plan settlement increased the 2008 combined ratio by 0.8 percentage points. Our new surplus lines operation contributed $14 million to net written premiums and $5 million to earned premiums, but had an immaterial effect on net income. The business achieved its first year strategic plan objectives. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 40 Table of Contents Our life insurance segment continued to provide a consistent source of profit. We discuss results for the segment in Life Insurance Results of Operations, Page 64. Income and gains from the life insurance investment portfolio are included in Investment segment results. Critical Accounting Estimates Cincinnati Financial Corporations financial statements are prepared using GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 98. In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the companys critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting policies, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may be appropriate. Property Casualty Insurance Loss And Loss Expense Reserves Overview We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our property casualty insurance business as balance sheet liabilities. These reserves account for unpaid loss and loss expenses as of a financial statement date. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are the estimated amounts necessary to pay for and settle all outstanding insured claims, including incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims, as of that date. For some lines of business that we write, a considerable and uncertain amount of time can elapse between the occurrence, reporting and payment of insured claims. The amount we will actually have to pay for such claims also can be highly uncertain. This uncertainty, together with the size of our reserves, makes the loss and loss expense reserves our most significant estimate. Gross loss and loss expense reserves were $4.040 billion at year end 2008 compared with $3.925 billion at year end 2007. How Reserves Are Established Our field claims representatives establish case reserves when claims are reported to the company to provide for our unpaid loss and loss expense obligation associated with these claims. Experienced headquarters claims supervisors review individual case reserves greater than $35,000 that were established by field claims representatives. Headquarters claims managers also review case reserves greater than $100,000. Our claims representatives base their case reserve estimates primarily upon case by case evaluations that consider: type of claim involved circumstances surrounding each claim policy provisions pertaining to each claim potential for subrogation or salvage recoverable general insurance reserving practices Case reserves of all sizes are subject to review on a 90 day cycle, or more frequently if new information about a loss becomes available. As part of the review process, we monitor industry trends, cost trends, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional loss exposures. We also establish incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves to provide for all unpaid loss and loss expenses not accounted for by case reserves: For weather events designated as catastrophes, we calculate IBNR reserves directly as a result of an estimated IBNR claim count and an estimated average claim amount for each event. Our claims department management coordinates the assessment of these events and prepares the related IBNR reserve estimates. Such an assessment involves a comprehensive analysis of the nature of the storm, of policyholder exposures within the affected geographic area and of available claims intelligence. Depending on the nature of the event, available claims intelligence could include surveys of field claims associates within the affected geographic area, feedback from a catastrophe claims team sent into the area, as well as data on claims reported as of the financial statement date. We generally use the catastrophe definition provided by Property Claims Service, a division of Insurance Services Office. PCS defines a catastrophe as an event that causes countrywide damage of $25 million or more in insured property losses and affects a significant number of policyholders and insureds. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 41 Table of Contents For asbestos and environmental claims, we calculate IBNR reserves by deriving an actuarially based estimate of total unpaid loss and loss expenses. We then reduce the estimate by total case reserves. We discuss the reserve analysis that applies to asbestos and environmental reserves in Asbestos and Environmental Reserves, Page 76. For all other claims and events, we calculate IBNR reserves quarterly by first deriving an actuarially based estimate of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred. We then reduce the estimate by total loss and loss expense payments and total case reserves carried. We discuss below the development of actuarial based estimates of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred. Our actuarial staff applies significant judgment in selecting models and estimating model parameters when preparing reserve analyses. In addition, unpaid loss and loss expenses are inherently uncertain as to timing and amount. Uncertainties relating to model appropriateness, parameter estimates and actual loss and loss expense amounts are referred to as model, parameter and process uncertainty, respectively. Our management and actuarial staff control for these uncertainties in the reserving process in a variety of ways. Our actuarial staff bases its IBNR reserve estimates for these losses primarily on the indications of methods and models that analyze accident year data. Accident year is the year in which an insured claim, loss, or loss expense occurred. The specific methods and models that our actuaries have used for the past several years are: paid and reported loss development methods paid and reported loss Bornhuetter Ferguson methods individual and multiple probabilistic trend family models Our actuarial staff uses diagnostics provided by stochastic reserving software to evaluate the appropriateness of the models and methods listed above. The softwares diagnostics have indicated that the appropriateness of these models and methods for estimating IBNR reserves for our lines of business tends to depend on a lines tail. Tail refers to the time interval between a typical claims occurrence and its settlement. For our long tail lines such as workers compensation and commercial casualty, models from the probabilistic trend family tend to provide superior fits and to validate well compared with models underlying the loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. The loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, particularly the reported loss variations, tend to produce the more appropriate IBNR reserve estimates for our short tail lines such as homeowner and commercial property. For our mid tail lines such as personal and commercial auto liability, all models and methods provide useful insights. Our actuarial staff also devotes significant time and effort to the estimation of model and method parameters. The loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods require the estimation of numerous loss development factors. The Bornhuetter Ferguson methods also involve the estimation of numerous ultimate loss ratios by accident year. Models from the probabilistic trend family require the estimation of development trends, calendar year inflation trends and exposure levels. Consequently, our actuarial staff monitors a number of trends and measures to gain key business insights necessary for exercising appropriate judgment when estimating the parameters mentioned. These trends and measures include: company and industry pricing company and industry exposure company and industry loss frequency and severity past large loss events such as hurricanes company and industry premium company in force policy count average premium per policy These trends and measures also support the estimation of ultimate accident year loss ratios needed for applying the Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and for assessing the reasonability of all IBNR reserve estimates computed. Our actuarial staff reviews these trends and measures quarterly and updates them as necessary. Quarterly, our actuarial staff summarizes its reserve analysis by preparing an actuarial best estimate and a range of reasonable IBNR reserves intended to reflect the uncertainty of the estimate. An inter departmental committee that includes our actuarial management team reviews the results of each quarterly reserve analysis. The committee establishes managements best estimate of IBNR reserves, which is the amount that is included in each periods financial statements. In addition to the information provided by actuarial staff, the committee also considers factors such as the following: large loss activity and trends in large losses new business activity Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 42 Table of Contents judicial decisions general economic trends such as inflation trends in litigiousness and legal expenses product and underwriting changes changes in claims practices The determination of managements best estimate, like the preparation of the reserve analysis that supports it, involves considerable judgment. Changes in reserving data or the trends and factors that influence reserving data may signal fundamental shifts or may simply reflect single period anomalies. Even if a change reflects a fundamental shift, the full extent of the change may not become evident until years later. Moreover, since our methods and models do not explicitly relate many of the factors we consider directly to reserve levels, we typically cannot quantify the precise impact of such factors on the adequacy of reserves prospectively or retrospectively. Due to the uncertainties described above, our ultimate loss experience could prove better or worse than our carried reserves reflect. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and increased, the amount of the increase is a charge in the period that the deficiency is recognized, raising our loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. To the extent that reserves are redundant and released, the amount of the release is a credit in the period that the redundancy is recognized, reducing our loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings. Key Assumptions Loss Reserving Our actuarial staff makes a number of key assumptions when using their methods and models to derive IBNR reserve estimates. Appropriate reliance on these key assumptions essentially entails determinations of the likelihood that statistically significant patterns in historical data may extend into the future. The four most significant of the key assumptions used by our actuarial staff and approved by management are: Emergence of loss and allocated loss expenses on an accident year basis. Historical paid loss, reported loss and paid allocated loss expense data for the business lines we analyze contain patterns that reflect how unpaid losses, unreported losses and unpaid allocated loss expenses as of a financial statement date will emerge in the future on an accident year basis. Unless our actuarial staff or management identifies reasons or factors that invalidate the extension of historical patterns into the future, these patterns can be used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. Our actuaries significantly rely on this assumption in the application of all methods and models mentioned above. Calendar year inflation. For long tail and mid tail business lines, calendar year inflation trends for future paid losses and paid allocated loss expenses will not vary significantly from a stable, long term average. Our actuaries base reserve estimates derived from probabilistic trend family models on this assumption. Exposure levels. Historical earned premiums, when adjusted to reflect common levels of product pricing and loss cost inflation, can serve as a proxy for historical exposures. Our actuaries require this assumption to estimate expected loss ratios and expected allocated loss expense ratios used by the Bornhuetter Ferguson reserving methods. They also use this assumption to establish exposure levels for recent accident years, characterized by green or immature data, when working with probabilistic trend family models. Claims having atypical emergence patterns. Characteristics of certain subsets of claims, such as high frequency, high severity, or mass tort claims, have the potential to distort patterns contained in historical paid loss, reported loss and paid allocated loss expense data. When testing indicates this to be the case for a particular subset of claims, our actuaries segregate these claims from the data and analyze them separately. Subsets of claims that could fall into this category include hurricane claims, individual large claims and asbestos and environmental claims. These key assumptions have not changed since 2005, when our actuarial staff began using probabilistic trend family models to estimate IBNR reserves. Paid losses, reported losses and paid allocated loss expenses are subject to random as well as systematic influences. As a result, actual paid losses, reported losses and paid allocated loss expenses are virtually certain to differ from projections. Such differences are consistent with what specific models for our business lines predict and with the related patterns in the historical data used to develop these models. As a result, management does not closely monitor statistically insignificant differences between actual and projected data. Reserve Estimate Variability Management believes that the standard error of a reserve estimate, a measure of the estimates variability, provides the most appropriate measure of the estimates sensitivity. The reserves we establish depend on the models we use and the related parameters we estimate in the course of conducting reserve analyses. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 43 Table of Contents However, the actual amount required to settle all outstanding insured claims, including IBNR claims, as of a financial statement date depends on stochastic, or random, elements as well as the systematic elements captured by our models and estimated model parameters. For the lines of business we write, process uncertainty the inherent variability of loss and loss expense payments typically contributes more to the imprecision of a reserve estimate than parameter uncertainty. Consequently, a sensitivity measure that ignores process uncertainty would provide an incomplete picture of the reserve estimates sensitivity. Since a reserve estimates standard error accounts for both process and parameter uncertainty, it reflects the estimates full sensitivity to a range of reasonably likely scenarios. The table below provides standard errors and reserve ranges for lines of business that account for 90.6 percent of our 2008 loss and loss expense reserves as well as the potential effects on our net income, assuming a 35 percent federal tax rate. Standard errors and reserve ranges for assorted groupings of these lines of business cannot be computed by simply adding the standard errors and reserve ranges of the component lines of business, since such an approach would ignore the effects of product diversification. See Range of Reasonable Reserves, Page 74, for a total reserve range. While the table reflects our assessment of the most likely range within which each lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses may fall, one or more lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges. (In millions) Net loss and loss expense range of reserves Carried Low High Standard Net income reserves point point error effect At December 31, 2008 Total $ 3,498 $ 3,256 $ 3,592 Commercial casualty $ 1,559 $ 1,280 $ 1,595 $ 158 $ 103 Commercial property 137 123 160 19 12 Commercial auto 385 367 401 17 11 Workers compensation 842 854 943 45 29 Personal auto 165 153 170 8 5 Homeowners 82 74 90 8 5 At December 31, 2007 Total $ 3,397 $ 3,132 $ 3,427 Commercial casualty $ 1,565 $ 1,352 $ 1,634 $ 141 $ 92 Commercial property 121 104 136 16 10 Commercial auto 383 362 395 17 11 Workers compensation 777 726 786 30 20 Personal auto 189 173 191 9 6 Homeowners 77 75 88 7 5 If actual unpaid loss and loss expenses fall within these ranges, our cash flow and fixed maturity investments should provide sufficient liquidity to make the subsequent payments. To date, our cash flow has covered our loss and loss expense payments, and we have never had to sell investments to make these payments. If this were to become necessary, however, our fixed maturity investments should provide us with ample liquidity. At year end 2008, consolidated fixed maturity investments exceeded total insurance reserves (including life policy reserves) by more than $190 million. Life Insurance Policy Reserves We establish the reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions. We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 44 Table of Contents Asset Impairment Our fixed maturity and equity investment portfolios are our largest assets. The companys asset impairment committee continually monitors the holdings in these portfolios and all other assets for signs of other than temporary or permanent impairment. The committee monitors significant decreases in the fair value of invested assets, changes in legal factors or in the business climate, an accumulation of costs in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset, uncollectability of all receivable assets, or other factors such as bankruptcy, deterioration of creditworthiness, failure to pay interest or dividends or signs indicating that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of our impairment policy resulted in other than temporary impairment charges that reduced our income before income taxes by $510 million in 2008, $16 million in 2007 and $1 million in 2006. Impairment charges are recorded for other than temporary declines in value, if, in the asset impairment committees judgment, there is little expectation that the value may be recouped within a designated recovery period. Other than temporary impairment losses represent non cash charges to income. Our portfolio managers monitor their assigned portfolios. If a security is trading below book value, the portfolio managers undertake additional reviews. Such declines often occur in conjunction with events taking place in the overall economy and market, combined with events specific to the industry or operations of the issuing organization. Management reviews quantitative measurements such as a declining trend in fair value, the extent of the fair value decline and the length of time the value of the security has been depressed, as well as qualitative measures such as pending events, credit ratings and issuer liquidity. We are even more proactive when these declines in valuation are greater than might be anticipated when viewed in the context of overall economic and market conditions. We provide information about valuation of our invested assets in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 104. All securities valued below 100 percent of book value are reported to the asset impairment committee for evaluation. A security valued between 95 percent and 100 percent of book value is not monitored separately by the committee. These assets generally are at this value because of interest rate driven factors. When evaluating for other than temporary impairments, the committee considers the companys intent and ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover its cost. Because of the companys financial strength, management may not impair certain securities even when they are trading below cost. For fixed maturity investments, we can make that determination based on our ability to hold until their scheduled redemption securities that are meeting their debt obligations and have the potential to recover value. For equity investments, we can make that determination based on a thorough assessment of the potential for recovery over a longer term horizon. In addition to evaluating the securitys current valuation, the impairment committee reviews objective evidence that indicates the potential for a recovery in value. Information is evaluated regarding the security, such as financial performance, near term prospects and the financial condition of the region and industry in which the issuer operates. Securities that have previously been impaired are evaluated based on their adjusted book value and written down further, if deemed appropriate. We provide detailed information about securities trading in a continuous loss position at year end 2008 in Item 7A, Application of Asset Impairment Policy, Page 87. An other than temporary decline in the fair value of a security is recognized in net income as realized investment losses. Other than temporary impairment charges are distinct from the ordinary fluctuations seen in the value of a security when considered in the context of overall economic and market conditions. Securities considered to have a temporary decline would be expected to recover their fair value, which may be at maturity. Under the same accounting treatment as fair value gains, temporary declines (changes in the fair value of these securities) are reflected in shareholders equity on our balance sheet in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, and have no impact on reported net income. Fair Value Measurements Valuation of Financial Instruments Valuation of financial instruments, primarily securities held in our investment portfolio, is a critical component of our interim financial statement preparation. We account for our investment portfolio at fair value and apply fair value measurements as defined by SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements, to financial instruments. Fair value is applicable to SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments, and SFAS No. 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments. We adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 157 on January 1, 2008. SFAS No. 157 defines fair value as the exit price or the amount that would be 1) received to sell an asset or 2) paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between marketplace participants at the measurement date. When determining an exit price, we Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 45 Table of Contents must, whenever possible, rely upon observable market data. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 157, we considered various factors such as liquidity and volatility but primarily obtained pricing from various external services, including broker quotes. The SFAS No. 157 exit price notion requires our valuation also to consider what a marketplace participant would pay to buy an asset or receive to assume a liability. Therefore, while we can consider pricing data from outside services, we ultimately determine whether the data or inputs used by these outside services are observable or unobservable. In accordance with SFAS No. 157, we have categorized our financial instruments, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three level fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as described in Item 8, Note 3 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 106. Level 1 and Level 2 Valuation Techniques Over 98 percent of our $8.8 billion invested assets measured at fair value are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Financial assets that fall within Level 1 and Level 2 are priced according to observable data from identical or similar securities that have traded in the marketplace. Also within Level 2 are securities that are valued by outside services or brokers where we have evaluated the pricing methodology and determined that the inputs are observable. Included in the Level 2 hierarchy are a small portfolio of collateralized mortgage obligations that represented less than 1 percent of the fair value of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2008. We obtained the CMOs as part of the termination of our securities lending program during 2008. The CMOs were an investment made by one of the short duration funds, which subsequently dissolved and distributed the assets to its investors. When we terminated the securities lending program, we chose to retain the CMOs rather than sell them at what we felt were distressed prices in an illiquid market. All $30 million of the CMOs in our portfolio are collateralized by Alt A mortgages that originated between 2004 and 2006. We owned investment grade CMOs with a fair value and book value of $27 million and $39 million, respectively, at December 31, 2008. Of the $27 million investment grade CMOs, $21 million were rated AAA by Standard Poors. We also owned non investment grade CMOs that had a fair value and book value of $3 million and $4 million, respectively. We do not intend to make additional investments in this asset category. Level 3 Valuation Techniques Financial assets that fall within the Level 3 hierarchy are valued based upon unobservable market inputs, normally because they are not actively traded on a public market. Level 3 taxable fixed maturities securities include certain private placements, small issues, general corporate bonds and medium term notes. Level 3 tax exempt fixed maturities securities include various thinly traded municipal bonds. Level 3 common equities include private equity securities. Level 3 preferred equities include private and thinly traded preferred securities. Pricing for each Level 3 security is based upon inputs that are market driven, including third party reviews provided to the issuer or broker quotes. However, we placed in the Level 3 hierarchy securities for which we were unable to obtain the pricing methodology or we could not consider the price provided as binding. Management ultimately determined the pricing for each Level 3 security that we considered to be the best exit price valuation. As of December 31, 2008, total Level 3 assets were 1.6 percent of our investment portfolio measured at fair value, which was relatively stable throughout 2008. Broker quotes are obtained for thinly traded securities that subsequently fall within the Level 3 hierarchy. We obtained two non binding quotes from brokers and used the more conservative price for fair value. At December 31, 2008, total fair value of assets priced by broker quotes for the SFAS No. 157 disclosure was $83 million and consisted mostly of taxable fixed maturities. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 46 Table of Contents Employee Benefit Pension Plan As discussed in Item 8, Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 113, we modified our qualified defined benefit pension during 2008, terminating participation in the plan for certain participants in a transition to a sponsored 401(k) with company matching of associate contributions. Contributions and pension costs are developed from annual actuarial valuations. These valuations involve key assumptions including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated each year. Any adjustments to these assumptions are based on considerations of current market conditions. Therefore, changes in the related pension costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in assumptions. Key assumptions used in developing the 2008 net pension obligation were a 6.00 percent discount rate and rates of compensation increases ranging from 4 percent to 6 percent. Key assumptions used in developing the 2008 net pension expense were a 6.25 percent discount rate, an 8 percent expected return on plan assets and rates of compensation increases ranging from 4 percent to 6 percent. See Note 13 for additional information on assumptions. In 2008, the net pension expense was $47 million, including one time charges of $27 million for settlement and $3 million for curtailment related to the modifications to the qualified pension plan. In 2009, we expect a net pension expense of $11 million. Holding all other assumptions constant, a 0.5 percentage point decline in the discount rate would lower our 2009 net income before income taxes by $1 million. Likewise, a 0.5 percentage point decline in the expected return on plan assets would lower our 2009 income before income taxes by $1 million. The fair value of the plan assets was $52 million less than the accumulated benefit obligation at year end 2008 and $4 million greater than the accumulated benefit obligation at year end 2007. The fair value of the plan assets was $88 million less than the projected plan benefit obligation at year end 2008 and $60 million less at year end 2007. Market conditions and interest rates significantly affect future assets and liabilities of the pension plan. In 2009, we expect to contribute approximately $33 million to our qualified plan. Deferred Acquisition Costs We establish a deferred asset for costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, acquiring property casualty and life insurance business. These costs are principally agent commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting costs, which are deferred and amortized into income as premiums are earned. Deferred acquisition costs track with the change in premiums. Underlying assumptions are updated periodically to reflect actual experience. Changes in the amounts or timing of estimated future profits could result in adjustments to the accumulated amortization of these costs. For property casualty policies, deferred acquisition costs are amortized over the terms of the policies. For life policies, acquisition costs are amortized into income either over the premium paying period of the policies or the life of the policy, depending on the policy type. Contingent Commission Accrual Another significant estimate relates to our accrual for property casualty contingent (profit sharing) commissions. We base the contingent commission accrual estimates on property casualty underwriting results and on supplemental information. Contingent commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account agency profitability, premium volume and other factors, such as prompt monthly payment of amounts due to the company. Due to the complexity of the calculation and the variety of factors that can affect contingent commissions for an individual agency, the amount accrued can differ from the actual contingent commissions paid. The contingent commission accrual of $75 million in 2008 contributed 2.5 percentage points to the property casualty combined ratio. If contingent commissions paid were to vary from that amount by 5 percent, it would affect 2009 net income by $2 million (after tax), or 1 cent per share, and the combined ratio by approximately 0.1 percentage points. Separate Accounts We issue life contracts, referred to as bank owned life insurance policies (BOLI). Based on the specific contract provisions, the assets and liabilities for some BOLIs are legally segregated and recorded as assets and liabilities of the separate accounts. Other BOLIs are included in the general account. For separate account BOLIs, minimum investment returns and account values are guaranteed by the company and also include death benefits to beneficiaries of the contract holders. Separate account assets are carried at fair value. Separate account liabilities primarily represent the contract holders claims to the related assets and are carried at an amount equal to the contract holders account value. Generally, investment income and realized investment gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contract holders and, therefore, are not included in our Consolidated Statements of Income. However, each separate account contract includes a negotiated realized gain and loss sharing arrangement with the company. This share is transferred from the separate account to our general account Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 47 Table of Contents and is recognized as revenue or expense. In the event that the asset value of contract holders accounts is projected below the value guaranteed by the company, a liability is established through a charge to our earnings. For our most significant separate account, written in 1999, realized gains and losses are retained in the separate account and are deferred and amortized to the contract holder over a five year period, subject to certain limitations. Upon termination or maturity of this separate account contract, any unamortized deferred gains and or losses will revert to the general account. In the event this separate account holder were to exchange the contract for the policy of another carrier in 2009, the account holder would pay a surrender charge equal to 1 percent of the contracts account value. The surrender charge falls to zero in 2010 and beyond. At year end 2008, net unamortized realized losses amounted to $12 million. In accordance with this separate account agreement, the investment assets must meet certain criteria established by the regulatory authorities to whose jurisdiction the group contract holder is subject. Therefore, sales of investments may be mandated to maintain compliance with these regulations, possibly requiring gains or losses to be recorded, and charged to the general account. Potentially, losses could be material; however, unrealized losses are approximately $36 million before tax in the separate account portfolio, which had a book value of $521 million at year end 2008. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information about recent accounting pronouncements is provided in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 98. We have determined that recent accounting pronouncements have not had nor are they expected to have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Results Of Operations Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results of our four reporting segments. These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of assets. Commercial lines property casualty insurance Personal lines property casualty insurance Life insurance Investments We report as Other the non investment operations of the parent company and its subsidiaries CFC Investment Company and CinFin Capital Management Company (excluding client investment activities), as well as other income of our standard market property casualty insurance operations. CinFin Capital Management will terminate all operations effective February 28, 2009. Beginning in 2008, we also include in Other the results of The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company and CSU Producer Resources. We measure profit or loss for our commercial lines and personal lines property casualty and life insurance segments based upon underwriting results (profit or loss), which represent net earned premium less loss and loss expenses and underwriting expenses on a pretax basis. We also frequently evaluate results for our consolidated property casualty insurance operations, which is the total of our commercial, personal and surplus insurance results. Underwriting results and segment pretax operating income are not substitutes for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. For our consolidated property casualty insurance operations as well as the insurance segments, statutory accounting data and ratios are key performance indicators that we use to assess business trends and to make comparisons to industry results, since GAAP based industry data generally is not as readily available. Investments held by the parent company and the investment portfolios for the insurance subsidiaries are managed and reported as the investments segment, separate from the underwriting businesses. Net investment income and net realized investment gains and losses for our investment portfolios are discussed in the Investments Results of Operations. The calculations of segment data are described in more detail in Item 8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 119. The following sections review results of operations for each of the four segments. Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 51, Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 59, Life Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 64, and Investments Results of Operations begins on Page 66. We begin with an overview of our consolidated property casualty operations, which is the total of our commercial lines, personal lines and surplus lines results. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 48 Table of Contents Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results Of Operations In addition to the factors discussed in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51 and Page 59, growth and profitability for our consolidated property casualty insurance operations were affected by a number of common factors. Changes in written and earned premiums over the past three years reflected growing price competition partially offset by consistently high retention rates of renewal business. New business written directly by agencies rose in 2008 after declining in 2007. The resurgence in new business was largely due to the contribution of agencies appointed the past five years, the contribution of our surplus lines business and more competitive personal lines pricing. Other written premium is largely ceded reinsurance premiums. (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 2,828 $ 2,960 $ 2,931 (4.5 ) 1.0 Agency new business written premiums 368 325 357 13.1 (8.9 ) Other written premiums (186 ) (168 ) (110 ) (10.3 ) (54.2 ) Net written premiums 3,010 3,117 3,178 (3.4 ) (1.9 ) Unearned premium change 0 8 (14 ) nm nm Earned premiums $ 3,010 $ 3,125 $ 3,164 (3.7 ) (1.2 ) Our combined ratio before catastrophe losses and savings from favorable prior period reserve development rose substantially in 2008 due to lower pricing prompted by soft market conditions and also due to normal loss cost inflation, a higher level of larger commercial lines losses and the pension plan settlement cost. The pension plan settlement increased the 2008 combined ratio by 0.8 percentage points. Our 2007 combined ratio before catastrophe losses and savings from favorable prior period reserve development rose largely due to the effects of lower pricing, normal loss cost inflation and a higher level of larger commercial lines losses. (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 3,010 $ 3,125 $ 3,164 (3.7 ) (1.2 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 2,174 2,030 1,947 7.1 4.1 Current accident year catastrophe losses 205 47 176 341.2 (73.4 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (321 ) (224 ) (113 ) (43.5 ) (94.3 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (2 ) (21 ) (2 ) 90.4 nm Total loss and loss expenses 2,056 1,832 2,008 12.2 (8.8 ) Underwriting expenses 971 989 975 (1.8 ) 1.3 Underwriting profit $ (17 ) $ 304 $ 181 nm 68.3 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 72.2 % 64.9 % 61.6 % 7.3 3.3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 6.8 1.4 5.5 5.4 (4.1 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (10.7 ) (7.1 ) (3.6 ) (3.6 ) (3.5 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 (0.6 ) 0.0 0.6 (0.6 ) Total loss and loss expenses 68.3 58.6 63.5 9.7 (4.9 ) Underwriting expenses 32.3 31.7 30.8 0.6 0.9 Combined ratio 100.6 % 90.3 % 94.3 % 10.3 (4.0 ) Combined ratio 100.6 % 90.3 % 94.3 % 10.3 (4.0 ) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (3.9 ) (6.3 ) 1.9 2.4 (8.2 ) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 104.5 % 96.6 % 92.4 % 7.9 4.2 Catastrophe losses contributed 6.8 percentage points to the combined ratio in 2008, the highest catastrophe loss ratio for our company since 1991. In 2007, catastrophe losses added just 0.8 percentage points, the lowest ratio over the same period. The following table shows catastrophe losses incurred, net of reinsurance, for the past three years, as well as the effect of loss development on prior period catastrophe reserves. Hurricane Ike, which reached the Gulf Coast on September 12, 2008, moved into the Midwest on September 14, causing unusually high winds in Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. At December 31, 2008, our gross losses from Hurricane Ike were estimated at $129 million, making it the single largest catastrophe in the companys history. Net of reinsurance, the loss was estimated at $58 million. Virtually all of the losses reported by our policyholders occurred in the Midwest. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 49 Table of Contents Catastrophe Losses Incurred (In millions, net of reinsurance) Commercial Personal Dates Cause of loss Region lines lines Total 2008 Jan. 4 9 Wind, hail, flood, freezing South, Midwest $ 4 $ 2 $ 6 Jan. 29 30 Wind, hail Midwest 5 4 9 Feb. 5 6 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 5 8 13 Mar. 14 Tornadoes, wind, hail, flood South 4 0 4 Mar. 15 16 Wind, hail South 2 8 10 Apr. 9 11 Wind, hail, flood South 17 2 19 May 1 Wind, hail South 5 1 6 May 10 12 Wind, hail, flood South, Mid Atlantic 3 4 7 May 22 26 Wind, hail Midwest 4 3 7 May 29 Jun 1 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 4 4 8 Jun. 2 4 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 6 4 10 Jun. 5 8 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 8 6 14 Jun. 11 12 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 10 4 14 Jun. 25 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 2 2 4 Jul. 19 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 2 2 4 Jul. 26 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 1 7 8 Sep. 12 14 Hurricane Ike South, Midwest 22 36 58 Other 2008 catastrophes 2 2 4 Development on 2007 and prior catastrophes (3 ) 1 (2 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 103 $ 100 $ 203 2007 Mar. 1 2 Wind, hail, flood South $ 6 $ 2 $ 8 Jun. 7 9 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 4 5 9 Sep. 20 21 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 2 4 6 Other 2007 catastrophes 14 9 23 Development on 2006 and prior catastrophes (10 ) (10 ) (20 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 16 $ 10 $ 26 2006 Mar. 11 13 Wind, hail Midwest, Mid Atlantic $ 29 $ 8 $ 37 Apr. 2 3 Wind, hail Midwest 12 5 17 Apr. 6 8 Wind, hail South 13 24 37 Apr. 13 15 Wind, hail South 4 6 10 Jun. 18 22 Wind, hail, flood South 3 2 5 Jul. 19 21 Wind, hail, flood South 4 1 5 Aug. 23 25 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 5 2 7 Oct. 2 4 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 7 31 38 Nov. 30 Dec. 3 Wind, hail, ice, snow Midwest, South 4 4 8 Other 2006 catastrophes 7 3 10 Development on 2005 and prior catastrophes 1 0 1 Calendar year incurred total $ 89 $ 86 $ 175 The three year rise in total underwriting expenses largely was due to the rise in non commission underwriting expenses, reflecting our continued investment in the people and systems necessary for our future growth. The change in our pension plan added 0.8 percentage points to the overall combined ratio, including a 0.5 percentage point addition to the non commission expense ratio. Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 552 $ 599 $ 596 (7.8 ) 0.4 Underwriting expenses 404 375 363 7.9 3.2 Policyholder dividends 15 15 16 (3.5 ) (5.4 ) Total underwriting expenses $ 971 $ 989 $ 975 (1.8 ) 1.3 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 18.3 % 19.2 % 18.8 % (0.9 ) 0.4 Underwriting expenses 13.5 12.0 11.5 1.5 0.5 Policyholder dividends 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.0 0.0 Total underwriting expense ratio 32.3 % 31.7 % 30.8 % 0.6 0.9 The discussions of our property casualty insurance segments provide additional detail about these factors. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 50 Table of Contents Commercial Lines Insurance Results Of Operations Overview Three year Highlights Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 2,316 $ 2,411 $ 2,402 (3.9 ) 0.4 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 1,671 1,572 1,476 6.3 6.4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 106 26 87 299.7 (69.2 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (270 ) (194 ) (98 ) (39.3 ) (94.9 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (3 ) (10 ) 1 69.3 nm Total loss and loss expenses 1,504 1,394 1,466 7.8 (4.8 ) Underwriting expenses 742 756 728 (1.8 ) 3.7 Underwriting profit $ 70 $ 261 $ 208 683.3 21.6 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 72.1 % 65.2 % 61.4 % 6.9 3.8 Current accident year catastrophe losses 4.6 1.1 3.6 3.5 (2.5 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (11.7 ) (8.0 ) (4.1 ) (3.7 ) (3.9 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (0.1 ) (0.4 ) 0.1 0.3 (0.5 ) Total loss and loss expenses 64.9 57.9 61.0 7.0 (3.1 ) Underwriting expenses 32.1 31.3 30.3 0.8 1.0 Combined ratio 97.0 % 89.2 % 91.3 % 7.8 (2.1 ) Combined ratio 97.0 % 89.2 % 91.3 % 7.8 (2.1 ) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (7.2 ) (7.3 ) (0.4 ) 0.1 (6.9 ) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 104.2 % 96.5 % 91.7 % 7.7 4.8 Performance highlights for the commercial lines segment include: Premiums Pricing in our industry continues to be very competitive, and the poor economy is driving exposures lower. While our net written premium growth rate lagged that of the overall commercial lines industry, we feel our current pace for new and renewal business is consistent with our agents practice of selecting and retaining accounts with manageable risk characteristics that support the lower prevailing prices. We believe our pace reflects the advantages we achieve through our field focus, which provides us with quality intelligence on local market conditions. Commercial lines industry net written premiums were estimated to decline 3.8 percent in 2008 and 0.3 percent in 2007, after rising 3.5 percent in 2006. Our earned premiums declined in 2008 after rising slightly in 2007. Combined ratio Our commercial lines combined ratio rose to 97.0 percent in 2008 from very strong performances in 2007 and 2006. The 2008 ratio largely reflected higher current accident year losses before catastrophe losses. We continue to focus on sound underwriting fundamentals and obtaining adequate premiums per policy. We discuss factors affecting the combined ratio and reserve development by line of business below. Approximately $49 million, or 2.1 percentage points, of the rise in current accident year loss and loss expenses was due to refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year. Our commercial lines statutory combined ratio was 96.6 percent in 2008 compared with 89.2 percent in 2007 and 90.8 percent in 2006. By comparison, the estimated industry commercial lines combined ratio was 106.5 percent in 2008, 95.1 percent in 2007 and 91.2 percent in 2006. Industry commercial lines estimates include the mortgage and financial guaranty insurers, which saw a surge in claims following the historically high level of mortgage defaults in 2008. Commercial Lines Insurance Premiums Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 2,156 $ 2,271 $ 2,209 (5.1 ) 2.8 Agency new business written premiums 312 287 324 8.8 (11.5 ) Other written premiums (157 ) (145 ) (91 ) (8.3 ) (57.7 ) Net written premiums 2,311 2,413 2,442 (4.2 ) (1.2 ) Unearned premium change 5 (2 ) (40 ) nm 94.6 Earned premiums $ 2,316 $ 2,411 $ 2,402 (3.9 ) 0.4 As commercial lines markets have grown more competitive over the past several years, we have focused on leveraging our local relationships as well as the efforts of our agents and the teams that work with them. In this environment, we have been careful to maintain appropriate pricing discipline for both new and renewal Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 51 Table of Contents business as we emphasize the importance of assessing account quality to our agencies and underwriters. We continue to make case by case decisions not to write or renew certain business. We continue to use rate credits to retain renewals of quality business and earn new business. Our experience remains that the larger the account, the higher the credits, with variations by geographic region and class of business. Agency emphasis on larger accounts, convenience and technology considerations were the primary reasons for a slight decline in the number of our smaller policies. Over the past three years, we continued to focus on seeking and maintaining adequate premium per exposure as well as pursuing non pricing means of enhancing longer term profitability. Non pricing means have included deliberate reviews of each risk, terms and conditions and limits of insurance. We continue to adhere to our underwriting guidelines, to re underwrite books of business with selected agencies and to update policy terms and conditions. In addition, we continue to leverage our strong local presence. Our field marketing representatives meet with local agencies to reaffirm agreements on the extent of frontline renewal underwriting agents will perform. Loss control, machinery and equipment and field claims representatives continue to conduct on site inspections. To assist underwriters, field claims representatives prepare full reports on risks of concern. Both renewal and new business reflected the effects of the economic slowdown in many regions, as exposures declined and policyholders became increasingly focused on reducing expenses. For commercial accounts, we typically calculate general liability premiums based on sales or payroll volume while we calculate workers compensation premiums based on payroll volume. A change in sales or payroll volume generally indicates a change in demand for a businesss goods or services, as well as a change in its exposure to risk. Policyholders who experience sales or payroll volume changes due to economic factors may be purchasers of other types of insurance, such as commercial auto or commercial property, in addition to general liability and workers compensation. Premium levels for these other types of policies generally are not linked directly to sales or payroll volumes. In 2008, we estimated that policyholders with a contractor related ISO general liability code accounted for approximately 38 percent of our general liability premiums, which are included in the commercial casualty line of business, and that policyholders with a contractor related NCCI workers compensation code accounted for approximately 47 percent of our workers compensation premiums. The contractor market has been one of the more adversely affected by the economic slowdown. The decline in 2008 agency renewal written premiums was largely driven by the pricing and exposure declines while policy retention rates remained relatively steady. For renewal business, our headquarters underwriters talk regularly with agents. Our field teams are available to assist headquarters underwriters by conducting inspections and holding renewal review meetings with agency staff. These activities can help verify that a commercial account retains the characteristics that caused us to write the business initially. For renewal business, the typical pricing decline has moved into the mid single digits, although higher declines occur. In addition to pricing pressures, premiums confirmed by audits of policyholder sales and payrolls declined for 2008. For new business, our field associates are in our agents offices helping to judge the quality of each account, emphasizing the Cincinnati value proposition, calling on sales prospects with those agents, carefully evaluating risk exposure and working up their best quotes. In 2008, new business premium growth largely was driven by agencies appointed in the past five years with relatively stable contributions from the remaining agencies. At year end 2008, our field marketing representatives reported pricing down about 5 percent to 10 percent on average to write the same piece of quality new business we would have quoted in 2007, the third consecutive year of significant declines in our new business pricing. Pricing on new business remains competitive as many carriers appear to be managing the soft market by working aggressively to protect their renewal portfolios. In 2007 and 2008, other written premiums lowered net written premiums more than 2006. Higher ceded reinsurance costs were the primary driver in both 2007 and 2008, including the reinsurance reinstatement premium incurred in 2008. Commercial Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 1,777 $ 1,493 $ 1,397 76.7 % 61.9 % 58.2 % as of December 31, 2007 1,599 1,457 66.3 60.6 as of December 31, 2006 1,563 65.1 For our larger business lines, the trend in the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years reflected normal loss cost inflation as well as competitive Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 52 Table of Contents market conditions and softer pricing that began in 2005 and continued through 2008, as discussed above. In 2008, we saw a higher level of larger losses from director and officer liability coverages, as discussed below. The increase in larger losses in 2007 was primarily seen in general liability, commercial auto and workers compensation. Catastrophe losses were highly volatile over the three year period as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49. Savings from prior period reserve development continued to trend favorably in 2008 as discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 77. Commercial Lines Insurance Losses by Size Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $ 41 $ 4 $ 0 835.3 nm New losses $2,000,000 $4,000,000 75 111 111 (32.8 ) 0.3 New losses $1,000,000 $2,000,000 78 90 67 (13.8 ) 34.2 New losses $750,000 $1,000,000 41 33 28 21.8 18.8 New losses $500,000 $750,000 45 48 40 (6.0 ) 20.9 New losses $250,000 $500,000 98 74 64 33.7 14.1 Case reserve development above $250,000 229 201 201 13.9 0.3 Total large losses incurred 607 561 511 8.0 10.0 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 547 502 562 8.9 (10.6 ) Catastrophe losses 103 16 89 560.2 (82.3 ) Total losses incurred $ 1,257 $ 1,079 $ 1,162 16.4 (7.0 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: New losses greater than $4,000,000 1.8 % 0.2 % 0.0 % 1.6 0.2 New losses $2,000,000 $4,000,000 3.2 4.6 4.6 (1.4 ) 0.0 New losses $1,000,000 $2,000,000 3.4 3.7 2.8 (0.3 ) 0.9 New losses $750,000 $1,000,000 1.8 1.4 1.2 0.4 0.2 New losses $500,000 $750,000 2.0 2.0 1.7 0.0 0.3 New losses $250,000 $500,000 4.2 3.0 2.7 1.2 0.3 Case reserve development above $250,000 9.9 8.4 8.3 1.5 0.1 Total large loss ratio 26.3 23.3 21.3 3.0 2.0 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 23.4 20.8 23.4 2.6 (2.6 ) Catastrophe losses 4.5 0.7 3.7 3.8 (3.0 ) Total loss ratio 54.2 % 44.8 % 48.4 % 9.4 (3.6 ) The rise in the loss and loss expense ratio reflected a growing contribution from new losses and case reserve increases greater than $250,000. In total, commercial lines new losses and reserve increases greater than $250,000 rose to 26.3 percent of earned premiums from 23.3 percent in 2007 and 21.3 percent in 2006. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the increase was due to a number of factors, including a larger number of director and officer liability claims, changes in retention levels for our per risk reinsurance programs, changes in case reserving practices for our workers compensation business line, natural volatility and general inflationary trends in loss costs, which we continue to monitor. In 2006 and 2007, our retention for our property and casualty working treaties was $4 million. In 2008, we raised the casualty retention to $5 million. Commercial Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Commission expenses 413 454 444 (8.9 ) 2.0 Underwriting expenses 314 287 268 9.5 7.0 Policyholder dividends 15 15 16 (3.5 ) (5.4 ) Total underwriting expenses $ 742 $ 756 $ 728 (1.8 ) 3.7 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 17.8 % 18.8 % 18.5 % (1.0 ) 0.3 Underwriting expenses 13.7 11.9 11.1 1.8 0.8 Policyholder dividends 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.0 (0.1 ) Total underwriting expense ratio 32.1 % 31.3 % 30.3 % 0.8 1.0 Commercial lines commission expense as a percent of earned premium declined in 2008 from the relatively stable level of the prior two years. The change in the ratio reflected both the decline in earned premiums and a lower level of contingent commissions in 2008. Commission expenses include our profit sharing, or contingent, commissions, which are calculated on the profitability of an agencys aggregate property casualty book of Cincinnati business, taking into account longer term profit and premium volume, with a percentage for prompt payment of premiums and other criteria, to reward the agencys effort. These profit based commissions generally fluctuate with our loss and loss expense ratio. Our 2008 contingent commission Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 53 Table of Contents accrual reflected our estimate of the profit sharing commissions to be paid to our agencies in early 2009, based largely on each agencys performance in 2008. In both 2007 and 2008, non commission expenses rose on flat or declining earned premiums, which also led to unfavorable deferred acquisition expense comparisons. Further, in 2008, the salary cost contribution rose by approximately 0.8 percentage points and the change in our pension plan contributed 0.5 percentage points to the ratio. In 2007, our surplus lines start up activities contributed slightly to higher staffing and technology expenses. Surplus lines expenses were included in Other in 2008. Refinements in the allocation of expenses between our commercial lines and personal lines segments also contributed to minor variations in the non commission underwriting expenses. Commercial Lines Insurance Outlook Industrywide commercial lines written premiums are expected to decline approximately 1.4 percent in 2009 with the industry combined ratio estimated at 105.1 percent. As discussed in Item 1, Commercial Lines Insurance Marketplace, Page 13, over the past several years, renewal and new business pricing has come under steadily increasing pressure, reinforcing the need for more flexibility and careful risk selection. We expect commercial lines price declines to slow in 2009. We intend to continue marketing our products to a broad range of business classes, pricing our products appropriately and taking a package approach. We intend to maintain our underwriting selectivity and carefully manage our rate levels as well as our programs that seek to accurately match exposures with appropriate premiums. We will continue to evaluate each risk individually and to make decisions about rates, the use of three year commercial policies and other policy conditions on a case by case basis, even in lines and classes of business that are under competitive pressure. Nonetheless, we expect commercial lines profitability to remain under pressure in 2009. In Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 7, we discuss the initiatives we are implementing to achieve our corporate performance objectives. We discuss our overall outlook for our property casualty insurance operations in the Executive Summary, Page 37. Commercial Lines of Business Analysis Approximately 95 percent of our commercial lines premiums relate to accounts with coverages from more than one of our business lines. As a result, we believe that the commercial lines segment is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for each line. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of incurred loss and loss expenses and corresponding ratios over the most recent three accident years. Accident year data classifies losses according to the year in which the corresponding loss events occur, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, recorded or paid. Commercial Casualty Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Commercial casualty: Written premiums $ 764 $ 830 $ 838 (7.9 ) (1.0 ) Earned premiums 763 827 831 (7.8 ) (0.5 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 576 572 540 0.7 6.0 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (257 ) (149 ) (100 ) (72.3 ) (50.1 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 319 $ 423 $ 440 (24.7 ) (4.0 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 75.4 % 69.2 % 65.0 % 6.2 4.2 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (33.7 ) (18.1 ) (12.0 ) (15.6 ) (6.1 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 41.7 % 51.1 % 53.0 % (9.4 ) (1.9 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 576 $ 479 $ 414 75.4 % 57.9 % 49.8 % as of December 31, 2007 572 469 69.2 56.4 as of December 31, 2006 540 65.0 Commercial casualty is our largest business line. The decline in commercial casualty net written premiums reflected the intensifying competition in the casualty market. In addition, premiums for this business line can reflect economic trends, including changes in underlying exposures. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio improved in 2008 and 2007, largely because of higher savings from favorable development on prior period reserves. Factors contributing to the higher savings included Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 54 Table of Contents refinements to our IBNR reserve allocation, quarter to quarter reductions in actuarial reserve estimates, the introduction of an additional umbrella reserving model, sooner than expected moderation in the inflation trend of allocated loss expenses and unusual deviations from predictions of reserving methods and models. These factors are discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 77. The level of new losses and case reserve increases greater than $250,000 was slightly lower than in 2007. The current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses deteriorated over the three year period, primarily because of lower pricing per exposure and normal loss cost inflation. Further, the commercial casualty business line includes some of our longest tail exposures, making initial estimates of accident year loss and loss expenses incurred more uncertain, as we discuss in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 41. Commercial Property Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Commercial property: Written premiums $ 481 $ 499 $ 505 (3.6 ) (1.1 ) Earned premiums 487 497 491 (2.0 ) 1.2 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 282 240 216 17.3 11.1 Current accident year catastrophe losses 81 20 62 304.2 (67.4 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (7 ) (10 ) (2 ) 29.1 (519.7 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (3 ) (9 ) 6 73.4 nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 353 $ 241 $ 282 46.7 (14.6 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 57.7 % 48.3 % 44.0 % 9.4 4.3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 16.6 4.0 12.6 12.6 (8.6 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (1.3 ) (2.0 ) (0.4 ) 0.7 (1.6 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (0.4 ) (1.8 ) 1.3 1.4 (3.1 ) Total loss and loss expense ratio 72.6 % 48.5 % 57.5 % 24.1 (9.0 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 363 $ 260 $ 266 74.3 % 52.3 % 54.2 % as of December 31, 2007 260 274 52.3 55.7 as of December 31, 2006 278 56.6 Commercial property is our second largest business line. The decline in commercial property net written premiums over the three year period reflected pricing declines exacerbated by higher reinsurance premiums, including the premium reinstatement premium in 2008. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio deteriorated substantially in 2008 after improving in 2007, primarily due to fluctuations in catastrophe losses. New losses and case reserve increases greater than $250,000 added 3.4 percentage points to the 2008 ratio. Development on prior period reserves was relatively stable over the period. The current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses deteriorated over the three year period. A portion of the increase was due to a higher loss expense allocation because of the level of catastrophe and weather related losses. In addition, the refinement in the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year artificially accentuated the difference between the 2007 and 2008 ratios by approximately 2 percentage points. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 55 Table of Contents Commercial Auto Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Commercial auto: Written premiums $ 402 $ 429 $ 450 (6.2 ) (4.7 ) Earned premiums 411 440 453 (6.7 ) (2.9 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 303 303 296 (0.5 ) 3.0 Current accident year catastrophe losses 2 1 4 240.5 (83.4 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (8 ) (25 ) (22 ) 67.6 (18.5 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 (1 ) 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 297 $ 278 $ 278 6.3 0.2 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 73.7 % 69.3 % 65.2 % 4.4 4.1 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.6 0.0 0.9 0.6 (0.9 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (2.0 ) (5.8 ) (4.6 ) 3.8 (1.2 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 72.3 % 63.5 % 61.5 % 8.8 2.0 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 305 $ 298 $ 289 74.3 % 67.7 % 63.8 % as of December 31, 2007 304 284 69.3 62.7 as of December 31, 2006 300 66.1 The decline in commercial auto written premiums over the three year period reflected the downward pressure exerted by the market on the pricing of commercial accounts. Commercial auto is one of the business lines that we renew and price annually, so market trends may be reflected here more quickly than in other lines. Commercial auto also experiences pricing pressure because it often represents the largest portion of insurance costs for many commercial policyholders. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratios moved above the range we consider appropriate in 2008 due to ongoing pricing pressures and normal loss cost inflation. We believe volatility in the number of commercial auto losses greater than $1 million reflected natural volatility and general inflationary trends in loss costs. Savings from development on prior period reserves was lower in 2008 than 2007 and 2006 as commercial auto paid and reported loss development trends were relatively stable. Pricing and normal loss cost inflation were the primary drivers of the deterioration in the accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years. Workers Compensation Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Workers compensation: Written premiums $ 382 $ 378 $ 379 1.1 (0.3 ) Earned premiums 375 373 366 0.6 1.9 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 342 326 300 4.9 7.4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (3 ) (10 ) 13 75.0 nm Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 339 $ 316 $ 313 7.5 1.0 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 91.1 % 87.3 % 82.8 % 3.8 4.5 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (0.7 ) (2.7 ) 2.6 2.0 (5.3 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 90.4 % 84.6 % 85.4 % 5.8 (0.8 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 342 $ 305 $ 284 91.1 % 81.7 % 77.6 % as of December 31, 2007 326 284 87.3 77.6 as of December 31, 2006 300 82.8 Workers compensation written premiums have been relatively flat over the past three years. Although we have seen rising policy counts, these gains have been offset by reductions in payroll levels due to the troubled economy as well as rate decreases and the use of credits in a majority of our territories. We have had initiatives in place to judiciously expand our workers compensation business in selected states that Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 56 Table of Contents traditionally have been profitable markets for us and to enter states, such as Arizona and West Virginia, where we previously were not actively writing the line. We cannot offer workers compensation coverage in Ohio, our highest total property casualty premium volume state, because it is provided solely by the state instead of private insurers. Since we pay a lower commission rate on workers compensation business, this line has a higher calendar year loss and loss expense breakeven point than our other commercial business lines. Nonetheless, the ratio remained above our target levels over the three year period. Management is actively pursuing programs to improve financial performance for this line. For example, in 2009, we are putting in place a predictive modeling program to improve our pricing accuracy, and we are accelerating our delivery of loss control services to help manage our workers compensation profitability. In addition, the workers compensation business line includes our longest tail exposures, making initial estimates of accident year loss and loss expenses incurred more uncertain. Due to the lengthy payout period of workers compensation claims, small shifts in medical cost inflation and payout periods could have a significant effect on our potential future liability compared with our current projections. Specialty Packages Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Specialty packages: Written premiums $ 145 $ 146 $ 144 (0.5 ) 1.5 Earned premiums 144 146 141 (1.3 ) 3.1 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 87 80 71 9.2 12.8 Current accident year catastrophe losses 23 6 20 287.4 (71.8 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (3 ) 0 8 nm nm Prior accident year catastrophe losses (1 ) 0 (4 ) nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 106 $ 86 $ 95 22.0 (7.6 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 60.8 % 54.8 % 50.2 % 6.0 4.6 Current accident year catastrophe losses 15.6 4.0 14.5 11.6 (10.5 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (2.5 ) 0.5 4.7 (3.0 ) (4.2 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (0.4 ) 0.1 (3.1 ) (0.5 ) 3.2 Total loss and loss expense ratio 73.5 % 59.4 % 66.3 % 14.1 (6.9 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 110 $ 87 $ 91 76.4 % 59.9 % 64.7 % as of December 31, 2007 86 92 58.9 65.3 as of December 31, 2006 91 64.7 Specialty packages net written premiums were relatively flat over the three year period. Our commercial lines policy processing system for Businessowners Policies, which are included in this business line, is helping us meet changing agency needs and address pricing, technology and service innovations that other carriers have introduced for similar products in recent years. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio reflected the volatility in catastrophe losses over the three year period. In addition, the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses has risen over the period because of pricing reductions and normal loss cost inflation. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 57 Table of Contents Surety and Executive Risk Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Surety and executive risk: Written premiums $ 107 $ 102 $ 97 4.0 5.2 Earned premiums 107 100 93 7.7 7.8 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 71 41 41 75.2 (1.4 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 7 1 6 494.7 (79.7 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 78 $ 42 $ 47 87.0 (11.1 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 66.1 % 40.6 % 44.4 % 25.5 (3.8 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 6.5 1.2 6.3 5.3 (5.1 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 72.6 % 41.8 % 50.7 % 30.8 (8.9 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 71 $ 54 $ 42 66.1 % 54.3 % 45.2 % as of December 31, 2007 41 44 40.6 47.3 as of December 31, 2006 41 44.4 Surety and executive risk net written premiums rose over the three year period as we enhanced our marketing of these products. Director and officer liability coverage accounted for 58.9 percent of surety and executive risk premiums in 2008 compared with 62.3 percent in 2007 and 60.5 percent in 2006. We actively manage the potentially high risk of writing director and officer liability by: Marketing primarily to nonprofit organizations, which accounted for approximately 80 percent of the director and officer liability policies we wrote in 2008. Writing on a claims made basis, which normally restricts coverage to losses reported during the policy term. Providing limits no higher than $15 million with facultative or treaty reinsurance in place in 2009 for losses greater than $6 million. Limiting the number of for profit policies. At year end 2008, our in force director and officer liability policies provided coverage to 30 non financial publicly traded companies, including two Fortune 1000 companies. We also provided this coverage to approximately 500 banks, savings and loans and other financial institutions. The majority of these financial institution policyholders are smaller community banks, and we believe they have no unusual exposure to credit market concerns, including subprime mortgages. Based on new policy data or information from the most recent policy renewal, only 12 of our bank and savings and loan policyholders have assets greater than $2 billion, including one Fortune 500 company; only 23 have assets between $1 billion and $2 billion; and 49 have assets between $500 million and $1 billion. The calendar year and current accident year loss and loss expense ratios rose substantially in 2008, driven by additional director and officer new losses and case reserve increases greater than $250,000. During 2008, 38 of the new director and officer losses and case reserve increases added approximately $43 million to loss and loss expenses compared with 20 adding about $9 million in 2007 and 16 adding about $16 million in 2006. The higher level in 2008 was largely due to six new losses and five case reserve increases greater than $1 million on claims made in 2007. Eight of these 11 items were related to lending practices at financial institutions. To address the potential risk of this portion of our surety and executive risk business line moving forward, we are working with our agents to limit the number of new director and officer policies for financial institutions. At renewal, we are carefully re underwriting each account based on credit rating and other metrics. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 58 Table of Contents Machinery and Equipment Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Machinery and equipment: Written premiums $ 30 $ 29 $ 29 3.5 0.2 Earned premiums 29 28 27 3.1 2.4 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 11 10 11 10.9 (11.2 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 1 (2 ) 1 nm nm Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 12 $ 8 $ 12 57.7 (32.3 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 36.1 % 33.6 % 38.8 % 2.5 (5.2 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.9 0.0 0.4 0.9 (0.4 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 5.5 (5.5 ) 2.8 11.0 (8.3 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 (0.3 ) 0.0 0.3 (0.3 ) Total loss and loss expense ratio 42.5 % 27.8 % 42.0 % 14.7 (14.2 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 11 $ 10 $ 11 37.0 % 34.2 % 41.1 % as of December 31, 2007 10 10 33.6 35.9 as of December 31, 2006 11 39.2 Machinery and equipment net written premiums rose in 2008 after a relatively flat 2007. Because of the relatively small size of this business line, the calendar year and accident year loss and loss expense ratios can fluctuate substantially. Personal Lines Insurance Results Of Operations Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 689 $ 714 $ 762 (3.4 ) (6.3 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 498 459 471 8.7 (3.0 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 99 20 89 396.4 (77.5 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (51 ) (30 ) (15 ) (67.6 ) (90.2 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 1 (11 ) (3 ) nm (270.3 ) Total loss and loss expenses 547 438 542 25.2 (19.3 ) Underwriting expenses 224 233 247 (3.9 ) (5.6 ) Underwriting profit (loss) $ (82 ) $ 43 $ (27 ) nm nm Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 72.2 % 64.3 % 62.1 % 7.9 2.2 Current accident year catastrophe losses 14.4 2.8 11.6 11.6 (8.8 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (7.3 ) (4.3 ) (2.1 ) (3.0 ) (2.2 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.1 (1.5 ) (0.4 ) 1.6 (1.1 ) Total loss and loss expenses 79.4 61.3 71.2 18.1 (9.9 ) Underwriting expenses 32.5 32.6 32.4 (0.1 ) 0.2 Combined ratio 111.9 % 93.9 % 103.6 % 18.0 (9.7 ) Combined ratio 111.9 % 93.9 % 103.6 % 18.0 (9.7 ) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 7.2 (3.0 ) 9.1 10.2 (12.1 ) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 104.7 % 96.9 % 94.5 % 7.8 2.4 Overview Three year Highlights Performance highlights for the personal lines segment include: Premiums Over the past three years, competition in our personal lines markets rose and we continued to adjust pricing in an effort to return to consistent profitability in our personal lines segment. Our written premiums declined on lower premiums per policy and higher reinsurance related premiums as new business growth remained positive. Industry average written premium growth was estimated at 1.0 percent in 2008 after being flat in 2007 and rising 2.0 percent in 2006. Combined ratio The combined ratio rose substantially in 2008 after improving in 2007. The year over year differences were partially due to dramatic fluctuations in the level of catastrophe losses. In 2008, Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 59 Table of Contents the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses also rose substantially. Approximately $20 million, or 2.9 percentage points, of the rise in current accident year loss and loss expenses was due to refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year. Our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 111.6 percent in 2008, 94.1 percent in 2007 and 103.6 percent in 2006. By comparison, the estimated industry personal lines combined ratio was 103.3 percent in 2008, 96.1 percent in 2007 and 92.3 percent in 2006. Our concentration of business in areas hard hit by catastrophe events contributed to recent results that differed from the overall industry. Personal Lines Insurance Premiums Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 672 $ 690 $ 721 (2.5 ) (4.4 ) Agency new business written premiums 42 38 32 9.5 16.9 Other written premiums (29 ) (24 ) (17 ) (22.5 ) (36.3 ) Net written premiums 685 704 736 (2.7 ) (4.4 ) Unearned premium change 4 10 26 (53.2 ) (59.1 ) Earned premiums $ 689 $ 714 $ 762 (3.4 ) (6.3 ) Personal lines insurance is a strategic component of our overall relationship with many of our agencies and an important component of our agencies relationships with their clients. We believe agents recommend Cincinnati personal insurance products for their value oriented clients who seek to balance quality and price and who are attracted by our superior claims service and the benefits of our package approach. Our personal lines policyholder retention and new business levels have remained at higher levels following our July 2006 introduction of a limited program of policy credits for personal auto and homeowner pricing in most of the states in which our Diamond system is in use. The program provided credits for eligible new and renewal policyholders identified as above average risks. The rate of decline in our personal lines agency renewal written premiums further slowed in 2008, as the benefits of additional tiers to our pricing structure were seen in many states. These tiers are intended to improve our ability to compete for our agents highest quality personal lines accounts, increasing opportunities for our agents to market the advantages of our personal lines products and services to their clients. The number of in force homeowner and personal auto policies has declined steadily, but the year over year rate of decline slowed to 2.3 percent as of year end 2008 compared with 3.1 percent at year end 2007. Additional pricing and credit changes were implemented in early 2009, with introductions in additional states planned for subsequent months. This round of changes further improves pricing for the best accounts, which should help us retain and attract even more of our agents preferred business. Our personal lines new business written by our agencies rose for the third consecutive year in 2008 as the number of agency locations writing our personal lines rose by over 130, or 14.0 percent, in 2008. We set the stage to improve our geographic diversification by opening Arizona and Utah to personal lines. We also expanded our activity in Maryland and North Carolina by introducing personal auto and appointing additional locations from our existing agency network. However, the increased new business did not fully offset the impact of lost business and lower rates on above average quality renewal business. In 2007 and 2008, other written premiums lowered net written premiums more than 2006. Higher ceded reinsurance costs were the primary driver in both years, including the reinsurance reinstatement premium incurred in 2008. Personal Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. The increase in the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years was due to the pricing factors discussed above, normal loss cost inflation, refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year and higher non catastrophe weather related losses. Larger personal lines losses were a smaller percentage of earned premiums in 2008. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 597 $ 480 $ 535 86.6 % 67.3 % 70.2 % as of December 31, 2007 478 547 67.0 71.8 as of December 31, 2006 561 73.6 Catastrophe losses were highly volatile over the three year period as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49. Savings from prior period reserve development continued to trend favorably in 2008 as discussed in Personal Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 79. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 60 Table of Contents Personal Lines Insurance Losses by Size Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $ 5 $ 0 $ 0 nm nm New losses $2,000,000 $4,000,000 0 13 8 (100.0 ) 72.0 New losses $1,000,000 $2,000,000 16 15 14 10.7 3.5 New losses $750,000 $1,000,000 7 8 9 (11.5 ) (6.7 ) New losses $500,000 $750,000 11 10 8 9.6 20.9 New losses $250,000 $500,000 26 26 22 1.9 15.5 Case reserve development above $250,000 16 19 23 (20.1 ) (16.4 ) Total large losses incurred 81 91 84 (11.0 ) 8.1 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 295 279 309 5.6 (9.7 ) Catastrophe losses 100 10 86 958.8 (89.0 ) Total losses incurred $ 476 $ 380 $ 479 25.4 (20.8 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: New losses greater than $4,000,000 0.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.7 0.0 New losses $2,000,000 $4,000,000 0.0 1.9 1.0 (1.9 ) 0.9 New losses $1,000,000 $2,000,000 2.3 2.0 1.8 0.3 0.2 New losses $750,000 $1,000,000 1.0 1.1 1.1 (0.1 ) 0.0 New losses $500,000 $750,000 1.6 1.5 1.1 0.1 0.4 New losses $250,000 $500,000 3.8 3.6 2.9 0.2 0.7 Case reserve development above $250,000 2.3 2.7 3.1 (0.4 ) (0.4 ) Total large losses incurred 11.7 12.8 11.0 (1.1 ) 1.8 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 42.8 39.1 40.6 3.7 (1.5 ) Catastrophe losses 14.5 1.3 11.3 13.2 (10.0 ) Total loss ratio 69.0 % 53.2 % 62.9 % 15.8 (9.7 ) The effect on the loss and loss expense ratio from new losses and case reserve increases greater than $250,000 was lower in 2008 than it was in 2007. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the increase in 2007 largely was due to general inflationary trends in loss costs, which we continue to monitor, as well as natural volatility. Personal Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 136 $ 145 $ 152 (6.4 ) (4.4 ) Underwriting expenses 88 88 95 0.4 (7.5 ) Total underwriting expenses $ 224 $ 233 $ 247 (3.9 ) (5.6 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 19.7 % 20.3 % 19.9 % (0.6 ) 0.4 Underwriting expenses 12.8 12.3 12.5 0.5 (0.2 ) Total underwriting expense ratio 32.5 % 32.6 % 32.4 % (0.1 ) 0.2 Personal lines commission expense as a percent of earned premium declined in 2008 after rising slightly in 2007. The 2008 decline in the ratio reflected both the decline in earned premiums and a lower level of contingent commissions. Commission expenses include our profit sharing, or contingent, commissions, which are calculated on the profitability of an agencys aggregate property casualty book of Cincinnati business, taking into account longer term profit and premium volume, with a percentage for prompt payment of premiums and other criteria, to reward the agencys effort. These profit based commissions generally fluctuate with our loss and loss expense ratio. Our 2008 contingent commission accrual reflected our estimate of the profit sharing commissions to be paid to our agencies in early 2009 based largely on each agencys performance in 2008. Non commission underwriting expenses were relatively stable over the three year period. The modest increase in 2008 was due to the pension charge. Refinements in the allocation of expenses between our commercial lines and personal lines segments also contributed to minor variations in the non commission underwriting expenses. Personal Lines Insurance Outlook Industry analysts currently anticipate industrywide personal lines written premiums may rise approximately 2.5 percent in 2009, with the combined ratio estimated at 97.6 percent. While the improvement in our new business levels and policy retention rates over the past several years are positive indications for our personal lines business, we expect our growth rate to be below that of the industry as we continue to address our pricing. In Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 7, we discuss the initiatives we are implementing to address the unsatisfactory performance of our personal lines segment, in particular the homeowner line of business. Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 61 Table of Contents We describe steps that will enhance our response to the changing marketplace. We are aware that our personal lines pricing and loss activity are at levels that could put achievement of our corporate financial objectives at risk if those trends continue. We discuss our overall outlook for our property casualty insurance operations in the Executive Summary, Page 37. Personal Lines of Business Analysis We prefer to write personal lines coverage on an account basis that includes both auto and homeowner coverages as well as coverages from the other personal business line. As a result, we believe that the personal lines segment is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for each line. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of incurred loss and loss expenses and corresponding ratios over the most recent three accident years. Accident year data classifies losses according to the year in which the corresponding loss events occur, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, recorded or paid. Personal Auto Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Personal auto: Written premiums $ 320 $ 332 $ 359 (3.7 ) (7.5 ) Earned premiums 325 342 385 (5.0 ) (11.0 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 226 225 237 0.3 (5.2 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 4 1 11 266.3 (89.4 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (12 ) 5 2 nm 190.3 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 (3 ) 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 218 $ 228 $ 250 (4.4 ) (8.6 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 69.4 % 65.8 % 61.7 % 3.6 4.1 Current accident year catastrophe losses 1.2 0.3 2.7 0.9 (2.4 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (3.4 ) 1.6 0.5 (5.0 ) 1.1 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 (0.9 ) 0.1 0.9 (1.0 ) Total loss and loss expense ratio 67.2 % 66.8 % 65.0 % 0.4 1.8 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 230 $ 237 $ 247 70.6 % 69.2 % 64.3 % as of December 31, 2007 226 251 66.1 65.4 as of December 31, 2006 248 64.4 The decline in written and earned premiums slowed over the past three years as we continued to modify pricing, improving retention and attracting new policyholders. New business activity is nearing a level that would allow us to replace premiums lost due to price reductions and normal attrition. We continue to monitor and modify selected rates and credits to address our competitive position. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio rose slightly over the three year period. In recent years, we have seen generally higher costs for liability claims, including severe injuries, and we have sought rate increases for liability coverages that partially offset price decreases for physical damage coverages. Pricing decreases and normal loss cost inflation also were primary drivers in the rise in the accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years. In addition, the 2008 accident year loss and loss expense ratio rose by approximately 4 percentage points because of the refinements made to our IBNR reserve allocation by accident year. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 62 Table of Contents Homeowner Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Homeowner: Written premiums $ 277 $ 284 $ 290 (2.5 ) (2.1 ) Earned premiums 277 285 289 (2.6 ) (1.6 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 194 161 163 20.5 (1.7 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 89 17 72 416.6 (76.1 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (9 ) (3 ) 8 (235.4 ) nm Prior accident year catastrophe losses 1 (7 ) (3 ) nm (109.1 ) Total loss and loss expenses $ 275 $ 168 $ 240 63.7 (30.0 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 69.9 % 56.5 % 56.6 % 13.4 (0.1 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 32.1 6.0 24.9 26.1 (18.9 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (3.2 ) (1.0 ) 2.7 (2.2 ) (3.7 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.4 (2.5 ) (1.2 ) 2.9 (1.3 ) Total loss and loss expense ratio 99.2 % 59.0 % 83.0 % 40.2 (24.0 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 283 $ 177 $ 226 102.0 % 62.3 % 78.2 % as of December 31, 2007 178 229 62.5 79.2 as of December 31, 2006 235 81.5 Written and earned premium trends in 2008 and 2007 reflected improved new business levels offset by higher reinsurance premiums in both years. Reinsurance premiums, including a reinstatement premium of $8 million in 2008, were $33 million in 2008, $21 million in 2007 and $16 million in 2006. The pricing changes of the past several years have had a positive effect on policyholder retention and new business activity. We continue to monitor and modify selected rates and credits to address our competitive position. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio over the past three years fluctuated with catastrophe losses. Catastrophe losses have been above our expected range in recent years, averaging 24.7 percent of homeowner earned premium from 2006 to 2008, compared with a five year average of 20.9 percent. The current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses rose significantly in 2008, in part because of the decline in earned premiums, which largely reflected rate changes we made to keep our retention rate and new business at acceptable levels. Non catastrophe weather related losses contributed about 5 percentage points to the 2008 ratio. In addition, the refinements made to our IBNR reserve allocation by accident year and a lower estimate of salvage and subrogation reserves raised the ratio by about 2 percentage points. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 63 Table of Contents Other Personal Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Other personal: Written premiums $ 88 $ 88 $ 87 0.6 0.4 Earned premiums 87 87 88 0.1 (1.2 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 79 72 71 8.6 1.3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 6 2 6 271.0 (73.6 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (30 ) (33 ) (25 ) 8.4 (28.3 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (1 ) 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 54 $ 41 $ 52 32.5 (21.7 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 89.9 % 82.9 % 81.0 % 7.0 1.9 Current accident year catastrophe losses 6.9 1.9 7.0 5.0 (5.1 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (34.4 ) (37.6 ) (29.0 ) 3.2 (8.6 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (0.2 ) (0.2 ) 0.4 0.0 (0.6 ) Total loss and loss expense ratio 62.2 % 47.0 % 59.4 % 15.2 (12.4 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2008 2007 2006 2008 2007 2006 as of December 31, 2008 $ 85 $ 66 $ 61 96.8 % 76.1 % 69.6 % as of December 31, 2007 74 67 84.8 75.7 as of December 31, 2006 77 88.0 Other personal written premiums were essentially unchanged over the three year period. The decline in the number of homeowner and personal auto policies over the past several years hindered growth in this business line since most of our other personal coverages are endorsed to homeowner or auto policies. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio for other personal deteriorated in 2008 after improving in 2007. Variations in catastrophe losses and favorable development on prior period reserves accounted for this result. Savings from favorable development on prior period reserves is high for this business line because personal umbrella losses, which are a major component of other personal losses, can fluctuate significantly. Life Insurance Results Of Operations Overview Three year Highlights Performance highlights for the life insurance segment include: Revenues Driven by higher term life insurance premiums, earned premiums have grown over the past three years although separate account management fees have fluctuated, primarily reflecting a net realized capital loss sharing agreement between the separate account and the general account. Life insurance premiums have driven the increase in gross in force policy face amounts to $65.888 billion at year end 2008 from $61.875 billion at year end 2007 and $56.971 billion at year end 2006. Profitability The life insurance segment frequently reports only a small profit or loss on a GAAP basis because most of its investment income is included in investment segment results. We include only investment income credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations) in life insurance segment results. The segment reported a $4 million profit in 2008. At the same time, we recognize that assets under management, capital appreciation and investment income are integral to evaluation of the success of the life insurance segment because of the long duration of life products. For that reason, we also evaluate GAAP data, including all investment activities on life insurance related assets. Due to realized investment losses in 2008, the life insurance company reported a GAAP net loss of $19 million compared with net profit of $65 million in 2007 and $63 million in 2006. The life insurance company portfolio had after tax realized investment losses of $58 million in 2008, including $66 million in other than temporary impairment charges. For 2007 and 2006, realized investment losses were minimal, and we reported after tax realized investment gains of $26 million and $29 million in those years. Realized investment gains and losses are discussed under Investments Results of Operations, Page 66. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 64 Table of Contents Life Insurance Results Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Written premiums $ 185 $ 167 $ 161 11.0 3.2 Earned premiums $ 126 $ 125 $ 115 0.8 9.0 Separate account investment management fees 2 4 3 (56.0 ) 25.1 Total revenues 128 129 118 (1.1 ) 9.5 Contract holders benefits incurred 142 133 122 6.1 9.2 Investment interest credited to contract holders (63 ) (59 ) (54 ) 5.2 9.8 Operating expenses incurred 45 52 51 (12.8 ) 0.8 Total benefits and expenses 124 126 119 (1.2 ) 5.3 Life insurance segment profit (loss) $ 4 $ 3 $ (1 ) 0.9 nm Life Insurance Growth We market term, whole and universal life products, fixed annuities and disability income products. In addition, we offer term, whole and universal life and disability insurance to employees at their worksite. These products provide our property casualty agency force with excellent cross serving opportunities for both commercial and personal accounts. Earned premiums increased slightly in 2008 largely because of growth in our term insurance business. Total statutory life insurance net written premiums rose in 2008 to $185 million, compared with $167 million and $161 million in 2007 and 2006. Total statutory written premiums for life insurance operations for all periods include life insurance, annuity and accident and health premiums. The increase in total statutory life insurance written premiums primarily was due to sales of term life insurance and annuity products. Earned premiums for universal life products declined because fee income decreased 21 percent in 2008, principally reflecting an increase in our liability for unearned front end loads, an actuarial adjustment. Separate account investment management fee income contributed $2 million to total revenue in 2008, compared with a $4 million contribution in 2007 and $3 million in 2006. These fees declined primarily because of a net realized capital loss sharing agreement between the separate account and the general account. Over the past several years, we have worked to maintain a portfolio of simple, yet competitive products, primarily under the LifeHorizons banner. Our product development efforts emphasize death benefit protection and guarantees. Distribution expansion within our property casualty insurance agencies remains a high priority. In the past several years, we have added life field marketing representatives for the western, southeastern and northeastern states. Our 30 life field marketing representatives work in partnership with our more than 100 property casualty field marketing representatives. Approximately 71 percent of our term and other life insurance product premiums were generated through our property casualty insurance agency relationships. Life Insurance Profitability Life segment expenses consist principally of: Contract holders (policyholders) benefits incurred related to traditional life and interest sensitive products accounted for 75.7 percent of 2008 total benefits and expenses compared with 71.9 percent in 2007 and 73.8 percent in 2006. Total benefits and expenses rose due to net death claims that increased but remained within our range of pricing expectations. Operating expenses incurred, net of deferred acquisition costs, accounted for 24.3 percent of 2008 total benefits and expenses compared with 28.1 percent in 2007 and 26.2 percent in 2006. Operating expenses declined on an absolute and percentage basis principally because of the level of deferred acquisition costs associated with new term life insurance policies. Life segment profitability depends largely on premium levels, the adequacy of product pricing, underwriting skill and operating efficiencies. Life segment results include only investment interest credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). The remaining investment income is reported in the investment segment results. The life investment portfolio is managed to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and rates credited to policyholders. We consider the value of assets under management and investment income for the life investment portfolio as key performance indicators for the life insurance segment. We seek to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to benefits paid and reserve increases by consistently achieving better than average claims experience due to skilled underwriting. Commissions paid by the life insurance operation are on par with industry averages. During the past several years, we have invested in imaging and workflow technology and have significantly improved application processing. We have achieved process efficiencies while improving our service. These Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 65 Table of Contents efficiencies have played a significant role in cost containment and in our ability to increase total premiums and policy count over the past 10 years with minimal headcount additions. Life Insurance Outlook The life insurance industry faced a difficult year as broad and deep dislocations in the financial markets led to investment losses. While our investments also suffered, Cincinnati Life finished 2008 with very strong statutory capital and surplus and risk based capital ratios. The difficulties have been most acute for writers of variable and equity indexed products. In addition to losing significant amounts of fee income, such writers must draw down on capital to establish additional reserves for product guarantees and they must pay a higher cost for hedging programs as the markets have declined and become more volatile. We have not entered the variable or equity indexed market, so we are not subject to the severe costs associated with these products. Companies writing competitively priced term life insurance also must deal with very conservative statutory reserves and the associated heavy capital requirements. Many term life writers have used capital market solutions to move redundant reserves off their balance sheets. The increased cost of these solutions has decreased their viability as a method for relieving reserve strain. Because of our financial strength, we have not had to employ these solutions, and their unavailability is not curtailing our ability to continue offering competitively priced term life insurance. Some life companies are adopting new rules and or requesting permitted practices from their domiciliary state that allow them to strengthen their statutory balance sheets by reducing their reserve and or capital requirements. In view of our strong capital, we have elected not to follow such a course of action. Even in the current difficult business and economic environment, we believe that we are in a good position to grow at reasonable and profitable levels in 2009. Investments Results Of Operations Overview Three year Highlights The investment segment contributes investment income and realized gains and losses to results of operations. Investments provide our primary source of pretax and after tax profits. Investment income Pretax investment income declined 11.6 percent in 2008, primarily because of dividend reductions by common and preferred holdings, including reductions during the year on positions subsequently sold or reduced. Investment income rose 6.6 percent to a record high in 2007 on strong cash flow for new investments, higher interest income from the healthy fixed maturity portfolio and increased dividend income from the common stock portfolio. Realized investment gains and losses We reported realized investment gains in all three years, largely due to investment sales that were discretionary in timing and amount. In 2008, those sales were offset by $510 million of other than temporary impairment charges for the writedown of 126 securities. Investment Results Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Investment income: Interest $ 326 $ 308 $ 300 6.0 2.5 Dividends 204 294 262 (30.5 ) 12.1 Other 14 15 15 (4.5 ) (0.5 ) Investment expenses (7 ) (9 ) (7 ) 12.6 (18.7 ) Total investment income, net of expenses 537 608 570 (11.6 ) 6.6 Investment interest credited to contract holders (63 ) (59 ) (54 ) (5.2 ) (9.8 ) Realized investment gains and losses summary: Realized investment gains and losses 686 409 678 67.6 (39.6 ) Change in fair value of securities with embedded derivatives (38 ) (11 ) 7 (243.8 ) nm Other than temporary impairment charges (510 ) (16 ) (1 ) nm nm Total realized investment gains and losses 138 382 684 (64.0 ) (44.1 ) Investment operations income $ 612 $ 931 $ 1,200 (34.2 ) (22.4 ) Investment Income The primary drivers of investment income were: Interest income rose again in 2008. Purchases of new fixed maturity securities over the course of 2008 served to offset market value declines generally driven by macro factors. At year end 2008, the fixed maturity portfolio was trading at 96.2 percent of book value compared with 101.1 percent at year end 2007. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 66 Table of Contents Dividend income declined 30.5 percent in 2008 after rising in 2007 and 2006. Because our equity portfolio was heavily concentrated in the financial sector at the beginning of 2008, we experienced dividend reductions by many common and preferred holdings, including reductions during the year on positions subsequently sold or reduced. We are investing available cash flow in both fixed income and equity securities with yields that we believe are likely to be more secure. This may slow the return to growth in investment income although we believe year over year comparisons may turn positive in the second half of 2009. Net Realized Investment Gains and Losses Net realized investment gains and losses are made up of realized investment gains and losses on the sale of securities, changes in the valuation of embedded derivatives within certain convertible securities and other than temporary impairment charges. These three areas are discussed below. Investment gains or losses are recognized upon the sales of investments or as otherwise required under GAAP. The timing of realized gains or losses from sales can have a material effect on results in any quarter. However, such gains or losses usually have little, if any, effect on total shareholders equity because most equity and fixed maturity investments are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gain or loss included as a component of other comprehensive income. Impairment charges are recorded for other than temporary declines in value if, in the asset impairment committees judgment, there is little expectation that the value may be recouped within a designated recovery period. Other than temporary impairment losses represent non cash charges to income. Realized Investment Gains and Losses As appropriate, we buy, hold or sell both fixed maturity and equity securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve our portfolio objectives. Pretax realized investment gains in the past three years largely were due to the sale of equity holdings. In 2008, most of the gain was due to sales of holdings of common and preferred stocks of financial services issuers, reflecting our historical weighting in financial sector securities. The majority of these holdings were sold following reductions or elimination of their cash dividends to shareholders. Because of our low cost basis, we were able to record gains on many of these sales despite the decline in overall stock market values during 2008. Realized gains were lower in 2007, although we chose to take gains from partial sales of selected holdings and to sell other holdings because of general credit concerns that began in the subprime mortgage market and spread to other areas in the homebuilding and related industries over the course of 2007. The gain in 2006 largely was due to the sale of our entire Alltel common stock holding. During the past three years, fixed maturity securities were divested as a result of calls or as outright sales executed to either improve yield prospects or in response to adverse credit concerns. Although we prefer to hold fixed maturity investments until they mature, a decision to sell reflects our perception of a change in the underlying fundamentals of the security and preference to allocate those funds to investments that more closely meet our established parameters for long term stability and growth. Our opinion that a security fundamentally no longer meets our investment parameters may reflect a loss of confidence in the issuers management, a change in underlying risk factors (such as political risk, regulatory risk, sector risk or credit risk), or a strategic shift in business strategy that is not consistent with our long term outlook. Change in the Valuation of Securities with Embedded Derivatives We have a small portfolio of convertible preferred stocks and bonds, which have an embedded derivative component under GAAP accounting rules. In 2008 and 2007, we recorded $38 million and $11 million in fair value declines compared with $7 million in fair value increases in 2006. In 2008 and 2007, these changes in fair value were due to the application of SFAS No. 155, which allows us to account for the entire hybrid financial instrument at fair value, with changes recognized in realized investment gains and losses. In 2006, these changes in fair value were due to the application of SFAS No. 133, which required measurement of the fluctuations in the value of the embedded derivative features in selected convertible securities. The changes in fair values are recognized in net income in the period they occur. See the discussion of Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 98, for details on the accounting for convertible security embedded options. Other than temporary Impairment Charges In 2008, we recorded $510 million in write downs of 126 securities that we deemed had experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value versus $16 million in 2007 and $1 million in 2006. The factors we consider when evaluating impairments are discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 45. The other than temporary impairment charges in 2008 represented 5.7 percent of our total invested assets at year end. Other than temporary impairment charges also include unrealized losses of holdings that we had identified for sale but not yet completed a transaction. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 67 Table of Contents Other than temporary impairment charges from the investment portfolio by the asset class we described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 17, are summarized below: Years ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2008 2007 2006 Taxable fixed maturities: Impairment amount $ (162 ) $ (14 ) $ (1 ) New book value $ 187 $ 46 $ 0 Percent to total owned 6 % 1 % 0 % Number of securities impaired 86 18 1 Percent to total owned 10 % 2 % 0 % Tax exempt fixed maturities: Impairment amount $ (1 ) $ 0 $ 0 New book value $ 1 $ 0 $ 0 Percent to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Number of securities impaired 1 0 0 Percent to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Common equities: Impairment amount $ (214 ) $ (2 ) $ 0 New book value $ 87 $ 2 $ 0 Percent to total owned 5 % 0 % 0 % Number of securities impaired 9 2 0 Percent to total owned 18 % 4 % 0 % Preferred equities: Impairment amount $ (133 ) $ 0 $ 0 New book value $ 98 $ 0 $ 0 Percent to total owned 52 % 0 % 0 % Number of securities impaired 30 0 0 Percent to total owned 86 % 0 % 0 % Total: Impairment amount $ (510 ) $ (16 ) $ (1 ) New book value $ 373 $ 48 $ 0 Percent to total owned 5 % 1 % 0 % Number of securities impaired 126 20 1 Percent to total owned 6 % 1 % 0 % Other than temporary impairment charges from the investment portfolio by industry are summarized as follows: Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Fixed maturities: Financial $ (72 ) $ (4 ) $ 0 Real estate (49 ) 0 0 Consumer cyclical (14 ) (1 ) (1 ) Service cyclical (17 ) (6 ) 0 Other (11 ) (3 ) 0 Total fixed maturities (163 ) (14 ) (1 ) Common equities: Financial (184 ) 0 0 Health (30 ) 0 0 Real estate 0 (2 ) 0 Total common equities (214 ) (2 ) 0 Preferred equities: Financial (132 ) 0 0 Other (1 ) 0 0 Total preferred equities (133 ) 0 0 Total $ (510 ) $ (16 ) $ (1 ) The increase in other than temporary impairment charges in 2008 was largely due to writedowns of holdings of bonds and common and preferred stocks of financial services issuers, reflecting our historical weighting in this sector and the decline in overall stock market values during 2008. Impairment charges rose slightly in 2007 on the initial concerns regarding the real estate market. While we own only $30 million of Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 68 Table of Contents mortgage backed securities in our investment portfolio, we do own investments in industries directly affected by this credit environment. Investments Outlook We continue to focus on portfolio strategies to balance near term income generation and long term book value growth. In 2009, we expect to continue to allocate a portion of cash available for investment to equity securities, taking into consideration corporate liquidity and income requirements, as well as insurance department regulations and ratings agency comments. We discuss our portfolio strategies in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 17. We believe a continuation of the current credit environment, if exacerbated by recessionary economic conditions, could lead to further declines in portfolio values and additional other than temporary impairment charges. All but 83 securities of the 2,223 securities in the portfolio were trading at or above 70 percent of book value at year end 2008. Our asset impairment committee continues to monitor the investment portfolio. The current asset impairment policy is described in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 45. Other Revenues were relatively stable over the three years for our Other business. This includes the other income of our standard market insurance subsidiary, as well as non investment operations of the parent company and its subsidiaries, CFC Investment Company and CinFin Capital Management Company (excluding client investment activities). In 2008, we also include results of our surplus lines operations, The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company and CSU Producer Resources. Losses before income taxes for our Other business were largely driven by interest expense from debt of the parent company. In 2008, the loss also reflected expenses related to the surplus lines operation. Years ended December 31, 2008 2007 2007 2006 (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Change % Change % Interest and fees on loans and leases $ 8 $ 10 $ 11 (21.1 ) (9.5 ) Earned premiums 5 0 0 nm nm Money management fees 2 3 2 (29.2 ) 4.0 Other revenues 1 2 1 (27.8 ) 398.8 Total revenues 16 15 14 6.6 7.1 Interest expense 53 51 53 3.8 (3.1 ) Losses and loss expenses 5 0 0 nm nm Underwriting expenses 5 1 0 318.9 nm Operating expenses 17 9 12 74.3 (19.8 ) Total expenses 80 61 65 20.8 (4.4 ) Pre tax loss $ (64 ) $ (46 ) $ (51 ) (25.3 ) 7.6 Taxes We had $111 million of income tax expense in 2008 compared with $337 million in 2007 and $399 million in 2006. The effective tax rate for 2008 was 20.7 percent compared with 28.3 percent in 2007 and 30.0 percent in 2006. The primary reason for the change in the effective tax rate was the level and timing of realized gains as discussed in Investments Results of Operations, Page 66. In 2008, we had pretax realized gains of $138 million compared with pretax gains of $382 million in 2007 and $684 million in 2006. Growth in the tax exempt municipal bond portfolio, lower investment income from dividends and changes in operating earnings over the periods also contributed to the change in the effective tax rate for 2008. We pursue a strategy of investing some portion of cash flow in tax advantaged fixed maturity and equity securities to minimize our overall tax liability and maximize after tax earnings. For our insurance subsidiaries, approximately 85 percent of income from tax advantaged fixed maturity investments is exempt from federal tax. Our non insurance companies own no tax advantaged fixed maturity investments. For our insurance subsidiaries, the dividend received deduction, after the dividend proration of the 1986 Tax Reform Act, exempts approximately 60 percent of dividends from qualified equities from federal tax. For our non insurance subsidiaries, the dividend received deduction exempts 70 percent of dividends from qualified equities. Details about our effective tax rate are found in Item 8, Note 11 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 111. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 69 Table of Contents Liquidity And Capital Resources Liquidity and capital resources represent the overall financial strength of our company and our ability to generate cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of business obligations and growth needs. We seek to maintain prudent levels of liquidity and financial strength for the protection of our policyholders, creditors and shareholders. We manage liquidity at two levels. The first is the liquidity of the parent company. The second is the liquidity of our insurance subsidiary. The management of liquidity at both levels is essential because each has different funding needs and sources and each is subject to certain regulatory guidelines and requirements. Parent Company Liquidity The parent companys primary means of meeting liquidity requirements are dividends from our insurance subsidiary, investment income and after tax sale proceeds from investments held at the parent company level. The parent companys primary contractual obligations are interest and principal payments on long and short term debt as described under Contractual Obligations, Page 73. Other uses of parent company cash include general operating expenses described under Other Commitments, Page 73, as well as dividends to shareholders and common stock repurchases. This table shows a summary of the major sources and uses of liquidity by the parent company: Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Sources of liquidity: Dividends received from insurance subsidiary $ 220 $ 450 $ 275 Dividend received from other operating subsidiaries 10 0 0 Investment income 68 101 98 Uses of liquidity: Interest on debt $ 53 $ 52 $ 51 Pension payments 34 10 0 Dividends to shareholders 250 240 228 Purchase of treasury shares 139 307 120 At the discretion of the board of directors, the company can return cash directly to shareholders: Dividends to shareholders Over the past 10 years, the company has paid an average of 38.5 percent of net income as dividends. Dividends paid over the period have averaged 2.9 percent of beginning shareholders equity. The ability of the company to continue paying cash dividends is subject to factors the board of directors may deem relevant. Through 2008, the board had increased our cash dividend for 48 consecutive years. In February 2009, the board of directors cited current economic and market conditions as it chose to continue for later discussion the potential for an increase in the 2009 dividend payout level. While the board and management believe there is merit to sustaining the companys record of dividend increases, our first priority is the companys financial strength. Common stock repurchase Generally, our board believes that stock repurchases can help fulfill our commitment to enhancing shareholder value. Consequently, the board has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares, giving management discretion to purchase shares at reasonable prices in light of circumstances at the time of purchase, pursuant to SEC regulations. In 2008, we repurchased 3.8 million shares, all in the first six months of the year. As economic and market conditions deteriorated, we choose to preserve capital rather than continue repurchase activity. In the past, repurchases have occurred when we believe that stock prices on the open market are favorable for such repurchases. Our corporate code of conduct restricts repurchases during certain time periods. At a minimum, we historically have repurchased to offset dilution from share based compensation. The details of the repurchase authorizations and activity are described in Item 5, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, Page 32. Between February 1999 and year end 2008, we have repurchased 28.7 million shares at a total cost to the company of $1.105 billion. We do not adjust the number of shares repurchased and average price per repurchased share for stock dividends. Insurance Subsidiary Liquidity Our insurance subsidiarys primary means of meeting liquidity requirements are investment income and after tax sale proceeds from investments held at the subsidiary level and collection of insurance premiums. Property casualty insurance premiums generally are received before losses are paid under the policies purchased with those premiums. While first year life insurance expenses normally exceed first year Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 70 Table of Contents premiums, subsequent premiums are used to generate investment income until the policy benefits are paid or the policy term expires. Our insurance subsidiarys primary contractual obligations are property casualty loss and loss expenses and life policyholder obligations as well as certain ongoing operating expenses as shown under Contractual Obligations, Page 73. Other uses of insurance subsidiary cash include payments of dividends to the parent company and other operating expenses as discussed under Other Commitments, Page 73. This table shows a summary of operating cash flow of the insurance subsidiary (direct method): Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2008 2007 2006 Premiums collected $ 3,163 $ 3,256 $ 3,285 Loss and loss expenses paid (2,064 ) (1,888 ) (1,859 ) Commissions and other underwriting expenses paid (1,078 ) (1,053 ) (1,036 ) Insurance subsidiary cash flow from underwriting 21 315 390 Investment income received 481 505 471 Insurance subsidiary operating cash flow $ 502 $ 820 $ 861 Over the past three years, cash receipts from property casualty and life insurance premiums, along with investment income, have been more than sufficient to pay claims, operating expenses and dividends to the parent company. We discuss the factors that affected insurance operations in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51 and Page 59. Additional Sources of Liquidity Investing is a primary source of liquidity for both the parent company and insurance subsidiary. At both the parent company and insurance subsidiary, cash in excess of operating requirements is invested in fixed maturity and equity securities. Equity securities provide the potential for future increases in dividend income and for appreciation. In Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 17, we discuss our investment strategy, portfolio allocation and quality. Income from our investments is the most important investment contribution to cash flow. After tax proceeds of call or maturities also can provide liquidity. Although we have never sold investments to make claims payments, the sale of investments could provide an additional source of liquidity at either the parent company or insurance subsidiary level, if required, although we follow a buy and hold investment philosophy seeking to compound cash flows over the long term. At year end 2008, total unrealized gains in the investment portfolio, before deferred income taxes, were $588 million, down from $3.339 billion at year end 2007, because of investment sales and market value declines of our equity holdings. Further, financial resources of the parent company also could be made available to our insurance subsidiary, if circumstances required. This would include our ability to access the capital markets and short term bank borrowings. One way we seek to maintain a solid financial position and provide capital flexibility is by keeping our ratio of debt to total capital low. We now are targeting a ratio below 20 percent. At year end 2008, the ratio was 16.7 percent compared with 12.7 percent at year end 2007. The change was due entirely to the lower level of shareholders equity at year end 2008. Based on our present capital requirements, we do not believe we will need to materially increase debt levels during 2009. As a result, we believe that changes in our debt to capital ratio will again be a function of changes in shareholders equity. We had $791 million of long term debt and $49 million in borrowings on our short term lines of credit at year end 2008. We generally have minimized our reliance on debt financing although we may use lines of credit to fund short term cash needs. Long term Debt We provide details of our three long term notes in Item 8, Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 109. None of the notes are encumbered by rating triggers: $392 million aggregate principal amount of 6.92% senior debentures due 2028. $28 million aggregate principal amount of 6.9% senior debentures due 2028. $375 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior debentures due 2034. On December 22, 2008, A.M. Best removed our ratings from under review with negative implications, raised the outlook to stable and lowered Cincinnati Financial Corporations issuer credit rating and senior debt ratings to a from aa ; the issuer credit ratings of our standard market property casualty insurance group and member companies to aa from aa; and the issuer credit ratings of our life insurance subsidiary to a from aa . Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 71 Table of Contents On February 13, 2009, Fitch Ratings affirmed the ratings it had assigned on July 17, 2008, when it lowered the issuer default rating of Cincinnati Financial Corporation to A from AA and its senior debt ratings to A from A, with a negative outlook. Moodys Investors Service removed our ratings from review on September 25, 2008, lowering the senior debt rating of Cincinnati Financial Corporation to A3 from A2 with a stable outlook. Moodys maintained a two notch spread between the debt rating and insurance financial strength ratings due to significant financial flexibility and liquidity afforded by the holding companys large investment portfolio representing over 100 percent of its outstanding debt. Standard Poors Ratings Services removed our counterparty credit ratings from credit watch on June 30, 2008, lowering Cincinnati Financial Corporation to BBB and our standard market property casualty insurance companies and our life insurance subsidiary to A with a negative outlook. Short term Debt At year end 2008, we had two lines of credit with commercial banks amounting to $225 million with $49 million outstanding. Our $75 million unsecured line of credit with PNC Bank, N.A. was established more than five years ago and was renewed effective June 30, 2008 for a one year term to expire on June 30, 2009. The line has no financial covenants, and we currently believe we may be able to renew it under terms and conditions that are essentially unchanged. CFC Investment Company, a subsidiary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation, also is a borrower under this line of credit. At year end 2008, there was $49 million outstanding on this line of credit at a rate of LIBOR plus 50 basis points. PNC Bank is a subsidiary of PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE:PNC) The second line of credit is an unsecured $150 million revolving line of credit administered by The Huntington National Bank. It was established in 2007 and will mature in 2012. The line contains customary financial covenants that we presently meet. It is to be used for general corporate purposes. We borrowed $20 million against the line in 2007, which was repaid during 2008. The line of credit includes a swing line sub facility for same day borrowing in the amount of $35 million. The credit agreement provides alternative interest charges based on the type of borrowing and our debt rating. The interest rate charged for an advancement is adjusted LIBOR plus the applicable margin. Based on our debt ratings at year end 2008, interest for Eurodollar rate advances is adjusted LIBOR plus 33 basis points, and for floating rate advances is adjusted LIBOR. Utilization and commitment fees based on Cincinnati Financial Corporations current debt rating are 5 basis points and 8 basis points, respectively. CFC Investment Company, a subsidiary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation, is a co borrower under the agreement. The Huntington National Bank, a subsidiary of Huntington Bancshares Inc. (NASDAQ:HBAN), is the lead participant with a $75 million share. U.S. Bancorp (NYSE:USB), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) and Northern Trust Corporation (NASDAQ: NTRS) also participate, each providing $25 million of capacity. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook A long term perspective governs all of our major decisions, with the goal of benefiting our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates over time. Exacerbating the effect of our weaker insurance results, the ongoing instability of the financial markets in 2008 highlighted the value of building a cushion of financial strength over a period of years. In responding to current economic pressures, we are confident in the steps we have taken to protect our capital. We also are confident in our strategies to return our insurance operations to growth and profitability. Our consistent cash flows and prudent cash balances continue to create exceptional liquidity. We enter 2009 with slightly more than $1 billion in cash and cash equivalents on hand, in part due to an unusual level of investment sales and bond calls in the second half of 2008, as well as unusual challenges in making new investments due to economic and market conditions. That high cash level gives us the flexibility to meet current obligations while building value by prudently investing where we see potential for both current income and long term return. In any year, we consider the most likely source of pressure on liquidity would be an unusually high level of catastrophe losses in a short period of time. This could create additional obligations for our insurance operations by increasing the severity or frequency of claims. To address the risk of unusual insurance loss obligations including catastrophe events, we maintain property casualty reinsurance contracts with highly rated reinsurers, as discussed under 2009 Reinsurance Programs, Page 81. We also monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers because an insolvency could place in jeopardy a portion of our $759 million in outstanding reinsurance recoverables as of December 31, 2008. Continued economic weakness also has the potential to affect our liquidity and capital resources in a number of different ways, including: delinquent payments from agencies, defaults on interest payments by fixed maturity holdings in our portfolio, dividend reductions by holdings in our equity portfolio or declines in the market value of holdings in our portfolio. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 72 Table of Contents Further, parent company liquidity could be constrained by State of Ohio regulatory requirements that restrict the dividends insurance subsidiaries can pay. During 2009, total dividends that our insurance subsidiary can pay to our parent company without regulatory approval are approximately $336 million. Off balance Sheet Arrangements We do not use any special purpose financing vehicles or have any undisclosed off balance sheet arrangements (as that term is defined in applicable SEC rules) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the companys financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Similarly, the company holds no fair value contracts for which a lack of marketplace quotations would necessitate the use of fair value techniques. Obligations We pay obligations to customers, suppliers and associates in the normal course of our business operations. Some are contractual obligations that define the amount, circumstances and or timing of payments. We have other commitments for business expenditures, however, the amount, circumstances and or timing of our other commitments are not dictated by contractual arrangements. Other Commitments As of December 31, 2008, we believe our most significant other commitments are: Qualified pension plan In 2009, we currently estimate a voluntary cash contribution of $33 million to pension plan assets. Our results of operation would reflect an anticipated $11 million net pension expense and an estimated $8 million expense for company 401(k) contributions. Going forward, potential savings due to lower funding requirements for the pension plan are expected to be offset by the company 401(k) contributions. We chose to transition away from a defined benefit plan to reduce the companys future market risk while offering associates an up to date, more flexible benefits program. We discuss the change to the pension plan and future contributions in Item 8, Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 113. Commissions We expect commission payments to generally track with written premiums. We discuss commission trends in the Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51 and Page 59. Other operating expenses Many of our operating expenses are not contractual obligations but reflect the ongoing expenses of our business. Non commission operating expenses paid rose in the past two years. o Staffing Staffing expenses are the largest component of our operating expenses. We expect a minimal increase in staffing expenses in 2009. Recent growth in our associate base has been largely limited to positions supporting enhanced service and technology to our agencies and staffing additional field territories. o Technology In addition to contractual obligations for hardware and software discussed below, we anticipate capitalizing approximately $50 million in spending for key technology initiatives in 2009. Technology projects are discussed in Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 7. Capitalized development costs related to key technology initiatives totaled $38 million in 2008. These activities are conducted at our discretion, and we have no material contractual obligations for activities planned as part of these projects. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2008, we estimate our future contractual obligations as follows: Payment due by period Year Years Years There (In millions) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 after Total Gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments $ 1,247 $ 1,330 $ 579 $ 884 $ 4,040 Gross life policyholder obligations 50 66 102 3,295 3,513 Interest on long term debt 52 104 104 892 1,152 Long term debt 0 0 0 795 795 Short term debt 49 0 0 0 49 Profit sharing commissions 75 0 0 0 75 Operating property 6 1 0 0 7 Capital lease obligations 7 7 0 0 14 Computer hardware and software 6 10 5 0 21 Other invested assets 8 10 9 7 34 Liability for uncertain tax positions 0 2 0 0 2 Total $ 1,500 $ 1,530 $ 799 $ 5,873 $ 9,702 Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 73 Table of Contents Our most significant contractual obligations are discussed in conjunction with related insurance reserves in Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments and Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations on Page 74 and Page 80, respectively. Other future contractual obligations include: Interest on long and short term debt We expect total interest expense to be approximately $53 million in 2009. We discuss outstanding debt in Additional Sources of Liquidity, Page 71. Profit sharing commissions Profit sharing, or contingent, commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account agency profitability and other factors. We estimate 2009 contingent commission payments of approximately $75 million. We discuss commission expense trends in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Results of Operations, Page 51 and Page 59. Computer hardware and software We expect to need approximately $21 million over the next three years for current material commitments for computer hardware and software, including maintenance contracts on hardware and other known obligations. We discussed above the non contractual expenses we anticipate for computer hardware and software in 2009. Operating property We expect to invest a total of $9 million, including $7 million over the next two years to renovate an unoccupied building several miles from our headquarters for use as a business continuity center. Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments Our estimate of future gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments of $4.040 billion is lower than loss and loss expense reserves of $4.086 billion as of year end 2008. The $46 million difference is due to life and health loss reserves, as discussed in Item 8, Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 108. While we believe that historical performance of property casualty and life loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claims payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. We believe that we could meet our obligations under a significant and unexpected change in the timing of these payments because of the liquidity of our invested assets, strong financial position and access to lines of credit. Our estimates of gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments also do not include reinsurance receivables or ceded losses. As discussed in 2009 Reinsurance Programs, Page 81, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our property casualty risk exposure. Ceded property casualty reinsurance receivables of $542 million at year end 2008 are an offset to our gross property casualty loss and loss expense obligations. Our reinsurance program mitigates the liquidity risk of a single large loss or an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover for losses under one of our reinsurance agreements depends on the financial viability of the reinsurer. We direct our associates and agencies to settle claims and pay losses as quickly as is practical and made $1.955 billion in net claim payments during 2008. At year end 2008, net property casualty reserves reflected $2.009 billion in unpaid amounts on reported claims (case reserves), $802 million in loss expense reserves and $687 million in estimates of claims that were incurred but had not yet been reported (IBNR). The specific amounts and timing of obligations related to case reserves and associated loss expenses are not set contractually. The amounts and timing of obligations for IBNR claims and related loss expenses are unknown. We discuss our methods to establish loss and loss expense reserves and our belief that reserves are adequate in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 41. The historical pattern of using premium receipts for the payment of loss and loss expenses has enabled us to extend slightly the maturities of our investment portfolio beyond the estimated settlement date of the loss reserves. The effective duration of our fixed maturity portfolio was 5.4 years at year end 2008. By contrast, the duration of our loss and loss expense reserves was 3.0 years, and the duration of all insurance operation liabilities was 3.3 years. We believe this difference in duration does not affect our ability to meet current obligations because cash flow from operations is sufficient to meet these obligations. In addition, investment holdings could be liquidated, if necessary, to meet higher than anticipated loss and loss expenses. Range of Reasonable Reserves The company established a reasonably likely range for net loss and loss expense reserves of $3.256 billion to $3.592 billion at year end 2008, with the company carrying net reserves of $3.498 billion. The likely range was $3.132 billion to $3.427 billion at year end 2007, with the company carrying net reserves of $3.397 billion. Our loss and loss expense reserves are not discounted for the time value of money, but we have reduced the reserves by an estimate of the amount of salvage and subrogation payments we expect to recover. We provide a reconciliation of the property casualty reserves with the loss and loss expense reserve as shown on the balance sheet in Item 8, Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 108. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 74 Table of Contents The low point of each years range corresponds to approximately one standard error below each years mean reserve estimate, while the high point corresponds to approximately one standard error above each years mean reserve estimate. We discussed managements reasons for basing reasonably likely reserve ranges on standard errors in Critical Accounting Estimates, Reserve Estimate Variability, Page 43. The ranges reflect our assessment of the most likely unpaid loss and loss expenses at year end 2008 and 2007. However, actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges. Managements best estimate of total loss reserves as of year end 2008 was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate. Managements best estimate of total loss reserves as of year end 2007 also was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate. Development of Loss and Loss Expenses We reconcile the beginning and ending balances of our reserves for loss and loss expenses at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, in Item 8, Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 108. The reconciliation of our year end 2007 reserve balance to net incurred losses one year later recognizes approximately $323 million of redundant reserves. The table on the following page shows the development of estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses the past 10 years. Section A shows our total property casualty loss and loss expense reserves recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated calendar years on a gross and net basis. Those reserves represent the estimated amount of unpaid loss and loss expenses for claims arising in the indicated calendar year and all prior accident years at the balance sheet date, including losses that were incurred but not yet reported to the company. Section B shows the cumulative net amount paid with respect to the previously recorded reserve as of the end of each succeeding year. For example, as of December 31, 2008, we had paid $1.429 billion of loss and loss expenses in calendar years 1999 through 2008 for losses that occurred in accident years 1998 and prior. An estimated $170 million of losses remained unpaid as of year end 2009 (net re estimated reserves of $1.599 billion from Section C less cumulative paid loss and loss expenses of $1.429 billion). Section C shows the re estimated amount of the previously reported reserves based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as we learn more about the development of the related claims. Section D, cumulative net redundancy, represents the aggregate change in the estimates for all years subsequent to the year the reserves were initially established. For example, reserves established at December 31, 1998, had developed a $241 million redundancy over 10 years, net of reinsurance, which was reflected in income over the 10 years. The table shows favorable development in redundant reserves as a negative number. The reconciliation shows the effects on income in 2008, 2007 and 2006 of changes in estimates of the reserves for loss and loss expenses for all accident years. In evaluating the development of our estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses for the past 10 years, note that each amount includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior periods. For example, payments or reserve adjustments related to losses settled in 2008 but incurred in 2002 are included in the cumulative deficiency or redundancy amount for 2002 and each subsequent year. In addition, this table presents calendar year data, not accident or policy year development data, which readers may be more accustomed to analyzing. Conditions and trends that affected development of the reserves in the past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to extrapolate future redundancies or deficiencies based on this data. Differences between the property casualty reserves reported in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets (prepared in accordance with GAAP) and those same reserves reported in the annual statements (filed with state insurance departments in accordance with statutory accounting practices SAP), relate principally to the reporting of reinsurance recoverables, which are recognized as receivables for GAAP and as an offset to reserves for SAP. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 75 Table of Contents Development of Estimated Reserves for Loss and Loss Expenses Calendar year ended December 31, (In millions) 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 A. Originally reported reserves for unpaid loss and loss expenses: Gross of reinsurance $ 1,978 $ 2,093 $ 2,401 $ 2,865 $ 3,150 $ 3,386 $ 3,514 $ 3,629 $ 3,860 $ 3,925 $ 4,040 Reinsurance recoverable 138 161 219 513 542 541 537 518 504 528 542 Net of reinsurance $ 1,840 $ 1,932 $ 2,182 $ 2,352 $ 2,608 $ 2,845 $ 2,977 $ 3,111 $ 3,356 $ 3,397 $ 3,498 B. Cumulative net paid as of: One year later $ 522 $ 591 $ 697 $ 758 $ 799 $ 817 $ 907 $ 944 $ 1,006 $ 979 Two years later 833 943 1,116 1,194 1,235 1,293 1,426 1,502 1,547 Three years later 1,067 1,195 1,378 1,455 1,519 1,626 1,758 1,845 Four years later 1,207 1,327 1,526 1,614 1,716 1,823 1,963 Five years later 1,283 1,412 1,623 1,717 1,823 1,945 Six years later 1,333 1,464 1,680 1,778 1,889 Seven years later 1,366 1,496 1,717 1,819 Eight years later 1,390 1,520 1,750 Nine years later 1,409 1,545 Ten years later 1,429 C. Net reserves re estimated as of: One year later $ 1,724 $ 1,912 $ 2,120 $ 2,307 $ 2,528 $ 2,649 $ 2,817 $ 2,995 $ 3,112 $ 3,074 Two years later 1,728 1,833 2,083 2,263 2,377 2,546 2,743 2,871 2,893 Three years later 1,636 1,802 2,052 2,178 2,336 2,489 2,657 2,724 Four years later 1,615 1,771 2,010 2,153 2,299 2,452 2,578 Five years later 1,608 1,757 1,999 2,127 2,276 2,414 Six years later 1,602 1,733 1,992 2,122 2,259 Seven years later 1,577 1,739 1,994 2,111 Eight years later 1,593 1,746 1,986 Nine years later 1,603 1,741 Ten years later 1,599 D. Cumulative net redundancy as of: One year later $ (116 ) $ (20 ) $ (62 ) $ (45 ) $ (80 ) $ (196 ) $ (160 ) $ (116 ) $ (244 ) $ (323 ) Two years later (112 ) (99 ) (99 ) (89 ) (231 ) (299 ) (234 ) (240 ) (463 ) Three years later (204 ) (130 ) (130 ) (174 ) (272 ) (356 ) (320 ) (387 ) Four years later (225 ) (161 ) (172 ) (199 ) (309 ) (393 ) (399 ) Five years later (232 ) (175 ) (183 ) (225 ) (332 ) (431 ) Six years later (238 ) (199 ) (190 ) (230 ) (349 ) Seven years later (263 ) (193 ) (188 ) (241 ) Eight years later (247 ) (186 ) (196 ) Nine years later (237 ) (191 ) Ten years later (241 ) Net reserves re estimated latest $ 1,599 $ 1,741 $ 1,986 $ 2,111 $ 2,259 $ 2,414 $ 2,578 $ 2,724 $ 2,893 $ 3,074 Re estimated recoverable latest 211 218 245 517 552 532 553 518 525 513 Gross liability re estimated latest $ 1,810 $ 1,959 $ 2,231 $ 2,628 $ 2,811 $ 2,946 $ 3,131 $ 3,242 $ 3,418 $ 3,587 Cumulative gross redundancy $ (168 ) $ (134 ) $ (170 ) $ (237 ) $ (339 ) $ (440 ) $ (383 ) $ (387 ) $ (442 ) $ (338 ) Asbestos and Environmental Reserves We carried $114 million of net loss and loss expense reserves for asbestos and environmental claims as of year end 2008, compared with $123 million for such claims as of year end 2007. These amounts constitute 2.8 percent and 3.1 percent of total loss and loss expense reserves as of these year end dates. We believe our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims is limited, largely because our reinsurance retention was $500,000 or below prior to 1987. We also predominantly were a personal lines company in the 1960s and 1970s when asbestos and pollution exclusions were not widely used. During the 1980s and early 1990s, commercial lines grew as a percentage of our overall business and our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims grew accordingly. Over that period, we endorsed to or included in most policies an asbestos and environmental exclusion. Additionally, since 2002, we have revised policy terms where permitted by state regulation to limit our exposure to mold claims prospectively and further reduce our exposure to other environmental claims generally. Finally, we have not engaged in any mergers or acquisitions through which such a liability could have been assumed. We continue to monitor our claims for evidence of material exposure to other mass tort classes such as silicosis, but we have found no such credible evidence to date. Reserving data for asbestos and environmental claims has characteristics that limit the usefulness of the methods and models used to analyze loss and loss expense reserves for other claims. Specifically, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expenses for different accident years do not emerge independently of one another as loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods assume. In addition, asbestos and Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 76 Table of Contents environmental loss and loss expense data available to date does not reflect a well defined tail, greatly complicating the identification of an appropriate probabilistic trend family model. Due to these considerations, our actuarial staff elected to use a paid survival ratio method to estimate reserves for incurred but not yet reported asbestos and environmental claims. Although highly uncertain, reserve estimates obtained via this method have held up reasonably well since 2004. Between 2006 and 2008, total asbestos and environmental reserves decreased 11.6 percent. Our exposure to such claims is limited; therefore, we do not believe that a more detailed reserve analysis would be an appropriate use of resources. Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves For the business lines in the commercial lines insurance segment, the following table shows the breakout of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. The rise in total gross reserves for our commercial business lines is partially due to normal loss cost inflation and exposure growth in our workers compensation business line, the higher level of catastrophe losses in 2008 and an increase in larger surety and executive risk losses, as discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51. Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent (In millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2008 Commercial casualty $ 1,046 $ 327 $ 527 $ 1,900 52.0 % Commercial property 135 7 32 174 4.8 Commercial auto 276 48 65 389 10.6 Workers compensation 445 353 126 924 25.3 Specialty packages 74 1 10 85 2.3 Surety and executive risk 129 (4 ) 50 175 4.8 Machinery and equipment 3 3 1 7 0.2 Total $ 2,108 $ 735 $ 811 $ 3,654 100.0 % At December 31, 2007 Commercial casualty $ 1,035 $ 389 $ 524 $ 1,948 55.1 % Commercial property 104 6 29 139 3.9 Commercial auto 276 48 65 389 11.0 Workers compensation 426 315 119 860 24.3 Specialty packages 67 1 9 77 2.3 Surety and executive risk 68 2 42 112 3.2 Machinery and equipment 4 3 1 8 0.2 Total $ 1,980 $ 764 $ 789 $ 3,533 100.0 % Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 77 Table of Contents The following table shows net reserve changes at year end 2008, 2007 and 2006 by commercial line of business and accident year: Commercial Commercial Commercial Workers Specialty Surety Machinery (Dollars in millions) casualty property auto compensation packages exec. risk equipment Totals As of December 31, 2008 2007 accident year $ (93 ) $ 0 $ (7 ) $ (21 ) $ 1 $ 14 $ 0 $ (106 ) 2006 accident year (55 ) (7 ) 5 0 (1 ) (2 ) 1 (59 ) 2005 accident year (48 ) (2 ) (1 ) 5 (2 ) (2 ) 0 (50 ) 2004 accident year (28 ) 1 (4 ) 4 (2 ) (3 ) 0 (32 ) 2003 accident year (19 ) 0 1 6 0 (1 ) 0 (13 ) 2002 accident year (4 ) 0 (2 ) 1 0 1 0 (4 ) 2001 and prior accident years (11 ) (2 ) 0 3 0 0 0 (10 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (258 ) $ (10 ) $ (8 ) $ (2 ) $ (4 ) $ 7 $ 1 $ (274 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2007 $ 1,565 $ 121 $ 383 $ 777 $ 76 $ 94 $ 8 $ 3,024 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2008 1,307 111 375 775 72 101 9 2,750 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (258 ) $ (10 ) $ (8 ) $ (2 ) $ (4 ) $ 7 $ 1 $ (274 ) As of December 31, 2007 2006 accident year $ (70 ) $ (4 ) $ (15 ) $ (20 ) $ 1 $ 3 $ (1 ) $ (106 ) 2005 accident year (22 ) (13 ) (6 ) 0 2 3 (1 ) (37 ) 2004 accident year (34 ) (1 ) 1 1 (1 ) (1 ) 0 (35 ) 2003 accident year (2 ) 0 (3 ) (1 ) 0 (3 ) 0 (9 ) 2002 accident year (15 ) (1 ) 1 5 (1 ) (3 ) 0 (14 ) 2001 accident year (8 ) 0 (1 ) 2 0 1 0 (6 ) 2000 and prior accident years 2 0 (2 ) 3 0 1 0 4 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (149 ) $ (19 ) $ (25 ) $ (10 ) $ 1 $ 1 $ (2 ) $ (203 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2006 $ 1,483 $ 170 $ 386 $ 713 $ 84 $ 83 $ 9 $ 2,928 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2007 1,334 151 361 703 85 84 7 2,725 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (149 ) $ (19 ) $ (25 ) $ (10 ) $ 1 $ 1 $ (2 ) $ (203 ) As of December 31, 2006 2005 accident year $ (52 ) $ 17 $ (17 ) $ (2 ) $ 3 $ 7 $ 1 $ (43 ) 2004 accident year (21 ) (3 ) 1 5 (1 ) (3 ) 0 (22 ) 2003 accident year (12 ) (3 ) 1 0 1 (1 ) 0 (14 ) 2002 accident year 2 (1 ) (2 ) (3 ) 0 1 0 (3 ) 2001 accident year (9 ) (4 ) (2 ) (1 ) 0 1 0 (15 ) 2000 accident year (9 ) (1 ) (1 ) 1 (1 ) 0 0 (11 ) 1999 and prior accident years 2 0 (1 ) 9 0 0 0 10 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (99 ) $ 5 $ (21 ) $ 9 $ 2 $ 5 $ 1 $ (98 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2005 $ 1,359 $ 160 $ 386 $ 634 $ 73 $ 63 $ 6 $ 2,681 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2006 1,260 165 365 643 75 68 7 2,583 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (99 ) $ 5 $ (21 ) $ 9 $ 2 $ 5 $ 1 $ (98 ) Overall favorable development for commercial lines reserves of $274 million in 2008 illustrated the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially for long tail lines such as commercial casualty. Favorable reserve development for the commercial casualty line accounted for 94.2 percent of the segment total in 2008. Five factors, accounting for $182 million of favorable reserve development for the commercial casualty line of business as discussed below, were atypical. Refinements in IBNR reserve allocation Systems limitations prior to 2006 restricted the detail in which our actuaries could allocate IBNR reserves by accident year. The implementation of new systems at the end of 2005 eliminated those limitations. By the end of 2008, our actuaries had refined their IBNR reserve allocation by accident year to take advantage of the new systems flexibility and to more precisely reflect the findings of their quarterly reserve analyses. The new allocation placed a total for all lines of $69 million more reserves in the latest accident year, accident year 2008, than the old allocation would have. Of that $69 million, approximately $49 million was related to commercial lines of business. Accordingly, commercial lines favorable reserve development increased by a like amount for all of calendar year 2008. Commercial casualtys share of the favorable reserve development was approximately $36 million. Quarter to quarter reductions in actuarial reserve estimates Our actuaries perform a detailed reserve analysis in the fourth quarter of each year, based on data available through the end of the preceding third quarter to estimate reserves the company should carry at the end of the year. Once fourth quarter data becomes available, they update their analysis to reflect the actual data. The actuaries use the updated analysis to estimate the range of reasonable reserves shown in Range of Reasonable Reserves, Page 74, as well as to guide reserving decisions in the first half of the following year. The updated analysis for 2007 reflected reserve estimates that were $66 million lower than the analysis conducted during the fourth quarter, including updated reserve estimates for commercial casualty that were Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 78 Table of Contents approximately $43 million lower. The release in 2008 of $43 million of commercial casualty reserves on prior accident years added to the lines favorable reserve development. Introduction of additional umbrella reserving model Our actuaries became increasingly dissatisfied in 2008 with the performance of the reserving model they had been using to estimate commercial umbrella loss reserves, which are a component of our commercial casualty reserves. As a result, they began using blended trends from two separate reserving models to estimate required commercial umbrella reserves as of year end 2008. If the actuaries had estimated required commercial umbrella reserves as of year end 2007 in a similar fashion, commercial casualty reserves at year end 2007 would have been approximately $54 million lower. Accordingly, 2008 favorable reserve development for the commercial casualty line would have been reduced by a like amount. Sooner than expected moderation in inflation trend of allocated loss expenses For some of our commercial casualty coverages, the claims departments early settlement resolution initiative caused calendar year payments for allocated loss expenses to inflate at a temporarily higher rate beginning in 2005. Based on data available in 2007, our actuaries expected the higher inflation rate to persist through the end of 2007. In 2008, they learned that the inflation rate had reverted to normal in 2007. If our actuaries had recognized this reversion when deriving year end 2007 reserve estimates, commercial casualty reserves as of year end 2007 would have been approximately $8 million lower. Unusual deviations from predictions of reserving methods and models At year end 2007, our actuaries based loss reserve estimates for commercial multi peril liability coverages, which are part of the commercial casualty line, on the indications of the reported loss development method and a selected paid loss probabilistic trend family model. In deriving the reported loss development estimate, the actuaries relied heavily on five year averages to guide their parameter selections. The vast majority of these selections proved high in 2008, some significantly so. Our actuaries also identified a significant deviation in 2008 related to the use of the paid loss probabilistic trend family model. Consideration of premium growth, pricing changes and loss cost trends for commercial multi peril liability coverages led them to use an index to capture exposure growth that paid loss data for immature accident years could fail to reflect. In 2008, it became apparent that the index was not needed. We believe that the implementation of tighter terms and conditions on general liability policies between 2002 and 2005 played a role in this deviation. If our actuaries had recognized these deviations when deriving year end 2007 reserve estimates, commercial casualty reserves as of year end 2007 would have been approximately $39 million lower. Factors contributing to the remaining $76 million of commercial casualty favorable reserve development were not unusual or unexpected. As noted in Critical Accounting Estimates, Key Assumptions Loss Reserving, Page 43, our models predict that actual loss and loss expense emergence will differ from projections, and we do not attempt to monitor or identify such normal variations. Personal Lines Insurance Segment Reserves For the business lines in the personal lines insurance segment, the following table shows the breakout of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. Total gross reserves were down slightly from year end 2007 due to the decline in premiums and exposures for this segment. However, gross reserves for the homeowner line of business rose slightly on a higher level of catastrophe losses in 2008, as we discussed in Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 59. Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense Gross Percent (In millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2008 Personal auto $ 141 $ (3 ) $ 28 $ 166 43.5 % Homeowners 67 17 15 99 26.0 Other personal 53 52 11 116 30.5 Total $ 261 $ 66 $ 54 $ 381 100.0 % At December 31, 2007 Personal auto $ 163 $ (4 ) $ 30 $ 189 48.2 % Homeowners 61 8 14 83 21.0 Other personal 54 54 12 120 30.8 Total $ 278 $ 58 $ 56 $ 392 100.0 % Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 79 Table of Contents The following table shows net reserve changes at year end 2008, 2007 and 2006 by personal line of business and accident year: Personal Other (Dollars in millions) auto Homeowner personal Totals As of December 31, 2008 2007 accident year $ 11 $ (1 ) $ (8 ) $ 2 2006 accident year (4 ) (3 ) (5 ) (12 ) 2005 accident year (9 ) (1 ) (8 ) (18 ) 2004 accident year (5 ) (2 ) (3 ) (10 ) 2003 accident year (2 ) (1 ) (4 ) (7 ) 2002 accident year (1 ) 0 (1 ) (2 ) 2001 and prior accident years (1 ) 0 (1 ) (2 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (11 ) $ (8 ) $ (30 ) $ (49 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2007 $ 189 $ 77 $ 107 $ 373 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2008 178 69 77 324 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (11 ) $ (8 ) $ (30 ) $ (49 ) As of December 31, 2007 2006 accident year $ 3 $ (7 ) $ (11 ) $ (15 ) 2005 accident year 5 0 (5 ) 0 2004 accident year (2 ) (3 ) (10 ) (15 ) 2003 accident year (3 ) (1 ) (1 ) (5 ) 2002 accident year (1 ) 0 (4 ) (5 ) 2001 accident year 0 0 (1 ) (1 ) 2000 and prior accident years 0 1 (1 ) 0 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ 2 $ (10 ) $ (33 ) $ (41 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2006 $ 206 $ 104 $ 118 $ 428 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2007 208 94 85 387 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ 2 $ (10 ) $ (33 ) $ (41 ) As of December 31, 2006 2005 accident year $ 4 $ 5 $ (7 ) $ 2 2004 accident year 6 1 (2 ) 5 2003 accident year (3 ) 0 (4 ) (7 ) 2002 accident year (2 ) (1 ) (4 ) (7 ) 2001 accident year (2 ) 0 (2 ) (4 ) 2000 accident year (1 ) 0 (3 ) (4 ) 1999 and prior accident years 0 0 (3 ) (3 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ 2 $ 5 $ (25 ) $ (18 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2005 $ 213 $ 99 $ 118 $ 430 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2006 215 104 93 412 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ 2 $ 5 $ (25 ) $ (18 ) Favorable development for personal lines segment reserves illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. As discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 77, several atypical factors contributed to commercial lines favorable reserve development in 2008, two of which also contributed to personal lines favorable reserve development. First, during 2008, we refined our allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year. The new allocation placed approximately $20 million more reserves in the latest accident year, accident year 2008, than would have occurred using the prior allocation method. Accordingly, favorable reserve development increased by the same amount for calendar year 2008. Also during 2008, we began using blended trends from two separate reserving models to estimate required personal umbrella reserves as of year end 2008. This added approximately $14 million of savings from development on prior accident years to the other personal business line. Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations and Reserves Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations Our estimates of life, annuity and disability policyholder obligations reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders for future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and separate account liabilities. These estimates include death and disability claims, policy surrenders, policy maturities, annuity payments, minimum guarantees on separate account products, commissions and premium taxes offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in force contracts. Our estimates of gross life, annuity and disability obligations do not reflect net recoveries from reinsurance agreements. Ceded life reinsurance receivables were $206 million at year end 2008. As discussed in 2009 Reinsurance Programs, Page 81, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate or life insurance risk exposure. At year end 2008, ceded death benefits represented approximately 51.2 percent of our total policy face amounts in force. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 80 Table of Contents These estimated cash outflows are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows for all years of $3.513 billion (total of life insurance obligations) exceeds the liabilities recorded in life policy reserves and separate accounts for future policy benefits and claims of $2.144 billion (total of life insurance policy reserves and separate account policy reserves). Separate account policy reserves make up all but $1 million of separate accounts liabilities. We have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these policies and contracts that include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates and interest crediting rates. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the amounts presented could materially differ from actual results. Life Insurance Reserves Gross life policy reserves were $1.551 billion at year end 2008, compared with $1.478 billion at year end 2007. We establish reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions. We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments. We regularly review our life insurance business to ensure that any deferred acquisition cost associated with the business is recoverable and that our actuarial liabilities (life insurance segment reserves) make sufficient provision for future benefits and related expenses. 2009 Reinsurance Programs A single large loss or an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event could present us with a liquidity risk. In an effort to control such losses, we forego marketing property casualty insurance in specific geographic areas, monitor our exposure in certain coastal regions, review aggregate exposures to huge disasters and purchase reinsurance. We use the Risk Management Solutions (RMS) and Applied Insurance Research (AIR) models to evaluate exposures to a once in a 100 year and a once in a 250 year event to help determine appropriate reinsurance coverage programs. In conjunction with these activities, we also continue to evaluate information provided by our reinsurance broker. These various sources explore and analyze credible scientific evidence, including the impact of global climate change, which may affect our exposure under insurance policies. Reinsurance mitigates the risk of highly uncertain exposures and limits the maximum net loss that can arise from large risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure. Managements decisions about the appropriate level of risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in our underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover for losses covered under any reinsurance agreement depends on the financial viability of the reinsurer. Currently participating on our standard market property and casualty per risk and per occurrence programs are Hannover Reinsurance Company, Munich Reinsurance America, Partner Reinsurance Company of the U.S. and Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation, all of which have A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings of A (Excellent) or A (Superior). Our property catastrophe program is subscribed through a broker by reinsurers from the United States, Bermuda, London and the European markets. Primary components of the 2009 property and casualty reinsurance program include: Property per risk treaty The primary purpose of the property treaty is to provide capacity up to $25 million, adequate for the majority of the risks we write. It also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $5 million of each loss, up from the $4 million retention in 2008. Losses between $5 million and $25 million are reinsured at 100 percent. The ceded premium is estimated at $34 million for 2009, compared with $37 million in 2008 and $35 million in 2007. Casualty per occurrence treaty The casualty treaty provides capacity up to $25 million. Similar to the property treaty, it provides sufficient capacity to cover the vast majority of casualty accounts we insure and also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $6 million of each loss, up from the $5 million retention in 2008. Losses between $6 million and $25 million are Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 81 Table of Contents reinsured at 100 percent. The ceded premium is estimated at $40 million in 2009, compared with $43 million in 2008 and $50 million in 2007. Casualty excess treaties We purchase a casualty reinsurance treaty that provides an additional $25 million in protection for certain casualty losses. This treaty, along with the casualty per occurrence treaty, provides a total of $50 million of protection for workers compensation, extra contractual liability coverage and clash coverage losses, which would apply when a single occurrence involved multiple policyholders of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies or multiple coverages for one insured. The ceded premium is estimated at $2 million in 2009, unchanged from 2008. We purchase a second casualty excess treaty, which provides an additional $20 million in casualty loss coverage. This treaty also provides catastrophic coverage for workers compensation and extra contractual liability coverage losses. The ceded premium is estimated at less than $1 million for 2009, similar to the premium we paid in 2008. Property catastrophe treaty To protect against catastrophic events such as wind and hail, hurricanes or earthquakes, we purchase property catastrophe reinsurance with a limit up to $500 million. For the 2009 treaty, ceded premiums are estimated at $48.6 million compared with $41.3 million in 2008 and $48 million in 2007. We retain the first $45 million of any loss and varying shares of losses up to $500 million: o 33 percent of losses between $45 million and $70 million o 19 percent of losses between $70 million and $105 million o 14 percent of losses between $105 million and $200 million o 20 percent of losses between $200 million and $300 million o 18 percent of losses between $300 million and $400 million and o 7 percent of losses between $400 million and $500 million. After reinsurance, our maximum exposure to a catastrophic event that caused $500 million in covered losses would be $118 million compared with $105 million in 2008. The largest catastrophe loss in our history was Hurricane Ike in September 2008, which was estimated to be $129 million before reinsurance. The treaty contains one reinstatement provision. Individual risks with insured values in excess of $25 million, as identified in the policy, are handled through a different reinsurance mechanism. We typically reinsure property coverage for individual risks with insured values between $25 million and $65 million under an automatic facultative treaty. For risks with property values exceeding $65 million, we negotiate the purchase of facultative coverage on an individual certificate basis. For casualty coverage on individual risks with limits exceeding $25 million, facultative reinsurance coverage is placed on an individual certificate basis. Terrorism coverage at various levels has been secured in most of our reinsurance agreements. The broadest coverage for this peril is found in the property and casualty working treaties, which provide coverage for commercial and personal risks. Our property catastrophe treaty provides coverage for personal risks, and the majority of its reinsurers provide limited coverage for commercial risks with total insured values of $10 million or less. For insured values between $10 million and $25 million, there also may be coverage in the property working treaty. Reinsurance protection for the companys surety business is covered under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. CSU, the companys newly formed surplus lines subsidiary, has purchased a property and casualty reinsurance treaty for 2009 through Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation. Primary components of the treaty include: Property per risk treaty The property treaty provides limits up to $5 million, which provides adequate capacity for the risk profile we expect to write in 2009. We retain the first $1 million of any policy loss. Losses between $1 million and $5 million are reinsured at 100 percent. Casualty per occurrence treaty The casualty treaty provides limits up to $5 million, which provides adequate capacity for the risk profile we expect to write in 2009. We retain the first $1 million of any policy loss. Losses between $1 million and $5 million are reinsured at 100 percent. Basket retention CSU has purchased this coverage to limit our retention to $1 million in the event that the same occurrence results in both a property and a casualty loss. Property catastrophe treaty As a subsidiary of The Cincinnati Insurance Company, CSU has been added as a named insured under our property catastrophe treaty. All terms and conditions of this treaty apply to policies underwritten by CSU. For property or casualty risks with limits exceeding $5 million, underwriters place facultative reinsurance coverage on an individual certificate basis. The combined property and casualty treaty provides protection on Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 82 Table of Contents a participating basis for extra contractual obligations, as well as exposure to losses in excess of policy limits. The limit is $5 million for both property and casualty. Cincinnati Life, our life insurance business, purchases reinsurance under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. In 2005, we modified our reinsurance protection for our term life insurance business due to changes in the marketplace that affected the cost and availability of reinsurance for term life insurance. We are retaining no more than a $500,000 exposure, ceding the balance using excess over retention mortality coverage, and retaining the policy reserve. Retaining the policy reserve has no direct impact on GAAP results. However, because of the conservative nature of statutory reserving principles, retaining the policy reserve unduly depresses our statutory earnings and requires a large commitment of our capital. We also have catastrophe reinsurance coverage on our life insurance operations that reimburses us up to $50 million for covered net losses in excess of $10 million. The treaty contains a reinstatement provision, provided the covered losses are not due to terrorism, and contains protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. For term life insurance business written prior to 2005, we retain 10 percent to 25 percent of each term policy, not to exceed $500,000, ceding the balance of mortality risk and policy reserve. The NAIC recently rejected a package of industry proposals to relax certain statutory reserve and capital requirements. Due to our strong capital position, we do not intend to seek permission from the Ohio Department of Insurance to use these proposals as permitted practices. We continue to monitor the marketplace for attractive alternatives to finance the redundant statutory reserve strain associated with our term life insurance products. Safe Harbor Statement This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in our Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 25. Although we often review or update our forward looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: Further decline in overall stock market values negatively affecting the companys equity portfolio and book value Events, such as the credit crisis, followed by prolonged periods of economic instability, that lead to: o Significant or prolonged decline in the value of a particular security or group of securities and impairment of the asset(s) o Significant decline in investment income due to reduced or eliminated dividend payouts from a particular security or group of securities o Significant rise in losses from surety and director and officer policies written for financial institutions Recession or other economic conditions or regulatory, accounting or tax changes resulting in lower demand for insurance products Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the companys ability to generate growth in investment income or interest rate fluctuations that result in declining values of fixed maturity investments, including declines in accounts in which we hold bank owned life insurance contract assets Further deterioration in the banking sector or with banks with which we have relationships Changing consumer buying habits and consolidation of independent insurance agencies that could alter our competitive advantages Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to risk concentrations, changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes Increased frequency and or severity of claims Delays or inadequacies in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements Ability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased, financial strength of reinsurers and the potential for non payment or delay in payment by reinsurers Increased competition that could result in a significant reduction in the companys premium growth rate Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the companys relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the companys opportunities for growth, such as: o Multi notch downgrades of the companys financial strength ratings Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 83 Table of Contents o Concerns that doing business with the company is too difficult o Perceptions that the companys level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace Underwriting and pricing methods adopted by competitors that could allow them to identify and flexibly price risks, which could decrease our competitive advantages Personal lines pricing and loss trends that lead management to conclude that this segment could not attain sustainable profitability, which could prevent the capitalization of policy acquisition costs Actions of insurance departments, state attorneys general or other regulatory agencies, including a change to a federal system of regulation from a state based system, that: o Restrict our ability to exit or reduce writings of unprofitable coverages or lines of business o Place the insurance industry under greater regulatory scrutiny or result in new statutes, rules and regulations o Increase our expenses o Add assessments for guaranty funds, other insurance related assessments or mandatory reinsurance arrangements; or that impair our ability to recover such assessments through future surcharges or other rate changes o Limit our ability to set fair, adequate and reasonable rates o Place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace o Restrict our ability to execute our business model, including the way we compensate agents Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings Events or actions, including unauthorized intentional circumvention of controls, that reduce the companys future ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 Inaccurate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates Unforeseen departure of certain executive officers or other key employees due to retirement, health or other causes that could interrupt progress toward important strategic goals or diminish the effectiveness of certain longstanding relationships with insurance agents and others Events, such as an epidemic, natural catastrophe or terrorism, that could hamper our ability to assemble our workforce at our headquarters location Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 84 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Introduction Market risk is the potential for a decrease in securities value resulting from broad yet uncontrollable forces such as: inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions or other widespread unpredictable events. It is comprised of many individual risks that, when combined, create a macroeconomic impact. The company accepts and manages risks in the investment portfolio as part of the means of achieving portfolio objectives. Some of the risks are: Political the potential for a decrease in fair value due to the real or perceived impact of governmental policies or conditions Regulatory the potential for a decrease in fair value due to the impact of legislative proposals or changes in laws or regulations Economic the potential for a decrease in value due to changes in general economic factors (recession, inflation, deflation, etc.) Revaluation the potential for a decrease in fair value due to a change in relative value (change in market multiple) of the market brought on by general economic factors Interest rate the potential for a decrease in fair value of a security or portfolio due to its sensitivity to changes (increases or decreases) in the general level of interest rates Company specific risk is the potential for a particular issuer to experience a decline in value due to the impact of sector or market risk on the holding or because of issues specific to the firm: Fraud the potential for a negative impact on an issuers performance due to actual or alleged illegal or improper activity of individuals it employs Credit the potential for deterioration in an issuers financial profile due to specific company issues, problems it faces in the course of its operations or industry related issues Default the possibility that an issuer will not make a required payment (interest payment or return of principal) on its debt. Generally this occurs after its financial profile has deteriorated (credit risk) and it no longer has the means to make its payments The investment committee of the board of directors monitors the investment risk management process primarily through its executive oversight of our investment activities. We take an active approach to managing market and other investment risks, including the accountabilities and controls over these activities. Actively managing these market risks is integral to our operations and could require us to change the character of future investments purchased or sold or require us to shift the existing asset portfolios to manage exposure to market risk within acceptable ranges. Sector risk is the potential for a negative impact on a particular industry due to its sensitivity to factors that make up market risk. Market risk affects general supply/demand factors for an industry and will affect companies within that industry to varying degrees. Risks associated with the five asset classes described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 17, can be summarized as follows (H high, A average, L low): Taxable Tax exempt Common Preferred Short term fixed maturities fixed maturities equities equities investments Political A H A A L Regulatory A A A A L Economic A A H A L Revaluation A A H A L Interest rate H H A H L Fraud A L A A L Credit A L A A L Default A L A A L Fixed maturity Investments For investment grade corporate bonds, the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices leads to falling bond values during periods of increasing interest rates. Although the potential for a worsening financial condition, and ultimately default, does exist with investment grade corporate bonds, their higher quality financial profiles make credit risk less of a concern than for lower quality investments. We address this risk by consistently investing within a particular maturity range. Over the years, this approach has provided the portfolio with a laddered maturity schedule, which we believe is less subject to large swings in Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 85 Table of Contents value due to interest rate changes. While a single maturity range may see values drop due to general interest rate levels, other maturity ranges would typically be less affected by those changes. Additionally, purchases are spread across a wide spectrum of industries and companies, diversifying our holdings and minimizing the impact of specific industries or companies with greater sensitivities to interest rate fluctuations. The primary risk related to high yield corporate bonds is credit risk or the potential for a deteriorating financial structure. A weak financial profile can lead to rating downgrades from the credit rating agencies, which can put further downward pressure on bond prices. Interest rate risk, while significant, is less of a factor with high yield corporate bonds, as valuation is related more directly to underlying operating performance than to general interest rates. This puts more emphasis on the financial results achieved by the issuer rather than on general economic trends or statistics within the marketplace. We address this concern by analyzing issuer and industry specific financial results and by closely monitoring holdings within this asset class. The primary risks related to tax exempt bonds are interest rate risk and political risk associated with the specific economic environment within the political boundaries of the issuing municipal entity. We address these concerns by focusing on municipalities general obligation debt and on essential service bonds. Essential service bonds derive a revenue stream from municipal services that are vital to the people living in the area (water service, sewer service, etc.). Another risk related to tax exempt bonds is regulatory risk or the potential for legislative changes that would negate the benefit of owning tax exempt bonds. We monitor regulatory activity for situations that may negatively affect current holdings and our ongoing strategy for investing in these securities. The final, less significant risk is our exposure to credit risk for a portion of the tax exempt portfolio that has support from corporate entities. Examples are bonds insured by corporate bond insurers or bonds with interest payments made by a corporate entity through a municipal conduit/authority. Our decisions regarding these investments primarily consider the underlying municipal situation. The existence of third party insurance is intended to reduce risk in the event of default. In circumstances in which the municipality is unable to meet its obligations, risk would be increased if the insuring entity were experiencing financial duress. Because of our diverse exposure and selection of higher rated entities with strong financial profiles, we do not believe this is a material concern as we discuss in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 17. Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Because of our strong surplus, long term investment horizon and ability to hold most fixed maturity investments to maturity, we believe the company is well positioned if interest rates were to rise. A higher rate environment would provide the opportunity to invest cash flow in higher yielding securities, while reducing the likelihood of untimely redemptions of currently callable securities. While higher interest rates would be expected to continue to increase the number of fixed maturity holdings trading below 100 percent of book value, we believe lower fixed maturity security values due solely to interest rate changes would not signal a decline in credit quality. Our dynamic financial planning model uses analytical tools to assess market risks. As part of this model, the effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio is continually monitored by our investment department to evaluate the theoretical impact of interest rate movements. The table below summarizes the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates on the fixed maturity portfolio: Fair value of Effective duration fixed maturity 100 basis point 100 basis point (In millions) portfolio spread decrease spread increase At December 31, 2008 $ 5,827 $ 6,141 $ 5,514 At December 31, 2007 5,848 6,131 5,565 The effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio was 5.4 years at year end 2008, compared with 4.8 years at year end 2007. A 100 basis point movement in interest rates would result in an approximately 5.4 percent change in the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio. Generally speaking, the higher a bond is rated, the more directly correlated movements in its market value are to changes in the general level of interest rates, exclusive of call features. The market values of average to lower rated corporate bonds are additionally influenced by the expansion or contraction of credit spreads. In the dynamic financial planning model, the selected interest rate change of 100 basis points represents our views of a shift in rates that is quite possible over a one year period. The rates modeled should not be considered a prediction of future events as interest rates may be much more volatile in the future. The analysis is not intended to provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in rates on our results or financial condition, nor does it take into account any actions that we might take to reduce exposure to such risks. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 86 Table of Contents Short Term Investments Our short term investments consist primarily of commercial paper, demand notes or bonds purchased within one year of maturity. We make short term investments primarily with funds to be used to make upcoming cash payments, such as taxes. At year end 2008, short term investments included $16 million that were frozen in The Reserves Primary Fund. Between mid September and year end 2008, the fund had returned approximately $71 million to us in its liquidation process. In February 2009, the fund returned $6 million of the year end balance and we expect to receive the remainder during 2009. Equity Investments Common stocks are subject to a variety of risk factors encompassed under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying industries and companies within those industries. As we saw in 2008, a downturn in the economy can have a negative effect on an equity portfolio. Industry and company specific risks also have the potential to substantially affect the value of our portfolio. We implemented new investment guidelines in 2008 to help address these risks by diversifying the portfolio and establishing parameters to help manage exposures. Our equity holdings represented $2.896 billion in fair value and contributed all of the unrealized appreciation of the portfolio at year end 2008. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 17, for additional details on our holdings. The primary risks related to preferred stocks are similar to those related to investment grade corporate bonds. Falling interest rates adversely affect market values due to the normal inverse relationship between rates and yields. Credit risk exists due to the subordinate position of preferred stocks in the capital structure. We minimize this risk by primarily purchasing investment grade preferred stocks of issuers with a strong history of paying a common stock dividend. Events of 2008 indicated that the risk related to preferred stocks is greater because they would not receive preferential treatment in a government sponsored restructuring. Application of Asset Impairment Policy As discussed in Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 45, our fixed maturity and equity investment portfolios are our largest assets. The companys asset impairment committee monitors a number of significant factors for indications that the value of investments trading below the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of our impairment policy resulted in other than temporary impairment charges that reduced our income before income taxes by $510 million in 2008, $16 million in 2007 and $1 million in 2006. Impairments are discussed in Item 7, Investment Results of Operations, Page 66. We expect the number of securities trading below 100 percent of book value to fluctuate as interest rates rise or fall and credit spreads expand or contract due to prevailing economic conditions. Further, book values for some securities have been revised due to impairment charges recognized in prior periods. At year end 2008, 944 of the 2,233 securities we owned were trading below 100 percent of book value compared with 373 of the 2,053 securities we owned at year end 2007 and 679 of the 1,973 securities we owned at year end 2006. When evaluating the potential for future other than temporary impairments, we consider our intent and ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover its cost. Because of our investment philosophy and strong capitalization, we can hold securities that might otherwise be deemed impaired until their scheduled redemption as we evaluate their potential for recovery based on economic, industry or company factors. The 944 holdings trading below book value at year end 2008 represented 40.3 percent of invested assets and $596 million in unrealized losses. We deem the risk related to securities trading between 70 percent and 100 percent of book value to be relatively minor and at least partially offset by the earned income potential of these investments. 585 of these holdings were trading between 90 percent and 100 percent of book value. The value of these securities fluctuates primarily because of changes in interest rates. The fair value of these 585 securities was $2.081 billion at year end 2008, and they accounted for $88 million in unrealized losses. 276 of these holdings were trading between 70 percent and 90 percent of book value. The fair value of these holdings was $1.177 billion, and they accounted for $302 million in unrealized losses. These securities, which are being closely monitored, have been affected by a combination of factors including wider credit spreads driven primarily by the distress in the mortgage market, slumping real estate valuations, the effects of a slowing economy and the effects of higher interest rates on longer duration instruments. The majority of these securities are in the financial related sectors. Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 87 Table of Contents 83 securities were trading below 70 percent of book value at year end 2008. The fair value of these holdings was $322 million, and they accounted for $206 million in unrealized losses. The real estate sector accounted for $53 million of the unrealized losses, industrials accounted for $48 million, health care for $27 million, technology related for $23 million and the financial sector for $20 million. No other sector accounted for more than 10 percent of the unrealized losses. We believe that normalization of macro economic conditions has the potential to result in fair value recoveries within the individual recovery periods identified for each security. The following table summarizes the length of time securities in the investment portfolio have been in a continuous unrealized gain or loss position. 6 Months or less 6 12 Months 12 24 Months 24 36 Months Number Gross Number Gross Number Gross Number Gross of unrealized of unrealized of unrealized of unrealized (Dollars in millions) issues gain/loss issues gain/loss issues gain/loss issues gain/loss At December 31, 2008 Taxable fixed maturities: Trading below 70% of book value 73 $ (102 ) 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 244 (75 ) 164 (95 ) 35 (17 ) 41 (16 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 171 34 3 1 31 1 77 9 Total 488 (143 ) 167 (94 ) 66 (16 ) 118 (7 ) Tax exempt fixed maturities: Trading below 70% of book value 4 (4 ) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 56 (7 ) 239 (16 ) 18 (2 ) 24 (2 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 591 29 0 0 123 10 238 21 Total 651 18 239 (16 ) 141 8 262 19 Common equities: Trading below 70% of book value 5 (99 ) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 19 (135 ) 2 (11 ) 0 0 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 7 8 2 3 1 5 15 1,061 Total 31 (226 ) 4 (8 ) 1 5 15 1,061 Preferred equities: Trading below 70% of book value 1 (1 ) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 8 (5 ) 3 (3 ) 4 (6 ) 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 16 1 3 1 0 0 0 0 Total 25 (5 ) 6 (2 ) 4 (6 ) 0 0 Short term investments: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 0 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 1 0 4 0 0 0 0 0 Summary: Trading below 70% of book value 83 (206 ) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 327 (222 ) 412 (125 ) 57 (25 ) 65 (18 ) Trading at 100% and above of book value 786 72 8 5 155 16 330 1,091 Total 1,196 $ (356 ) 420 $ (120 ) 212 $ (9 ) 395 $ 1,073 Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 88 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the investment portfolio: Gross Gross Number Book Fair unrealized investment (Dollars in millions) of issues value value gain/loss income At December 31, 2008 Taxable fixed maturities: Trading below 70% of book value 73 $ 272 $ 170 $ (102 ) $ 16 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 484 1,974 1,771 (203 ) 113 Trading at 100% and above of book value 282 1,108 1,153 45 68 Securities sold in current year 22 Total 839 3,354 3,094 (260 ) 219 Tax exempt fixed maturities: Trading below 70% of book value 4 9 5 (4 ) 1 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 337 708 681 (27 ) 29 Trading at 100% and above of book value 952 1,987 2,047 60 82 Securities sold in current year 2 Total 1,293 2,704 2,733 29 114 Common equities: Trading below 70% of book value 5 242 143 (99 ) 8 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 21 814 668 (146 ) 27 Trading at 100% and above of book value 25 833 1,910 1,077 131 Securities sold in current year 9 Total 51 1,889 2,721 832 175 Preferred equities: Trading below 70% of book value 1 5 4 (1 ) 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 15 98 84 (14 ) 7 Trading at 100% and above of book value 19 85 87 2 9 Securities sold in current year 4 Total 35 188 175 (13 ) 20 Short term investments: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 4 54 54 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1 30 30 0 0 Securities sold in current year 2 Total 5 84 84 0 2 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 83 528 322 (206 ) 25 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 861 3,648 3,258 (390 ) 176 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,279 4,043 5,227 1,184 290 Investment income on securities sold in current year 39 Total 2,223 $ 8,219 $ 8,807 $ 588 $ 530 At December 31, 2007 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 3 $ 18 $ 12 $ (6 ) $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 370 2,064 1,882 (182 ) 92 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,680 6,777 10,304 3,527 473 Investment income on securities sold in current year 36 Total 2,053 $ 8,859 $ 12,198 $ 3,339 $ 601 Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 89 Table of Contents Cincinnati Financial Corporation 2008 Annual Report on 10 K Page 90 Table of Contents 
 
