Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The purpose of Managements Discussion and Analysis is to provide an understanding of Cincinnati Financial Corporations consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our Managements Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, Pages 32 and 33, and Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes, beginning on Page 87. We present per share data on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted, adjusting those amounts for all stock splits and stock dividends. We begin with an executive summary of our results of operations and outlook, as well as details on critical accounting policies and estimates. Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can give information on our performance within the context of the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M. Best, a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and financial strength rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory basis. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Executive Summary Through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Financial Corporation is one of the 25 largest property casualty insurers in the nation, based on written premium volume for approximately 2,000 U.S. stock and mutual insurer groups. We market our insurance products through a select group of independent insurance agencies in 37 states as discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Page 1. Although 2009 and 2008 were difficult years for our economy, our industry and our company, our long term perspective lets us address the immediate challenges while focusing on the major decisions that best position the company for success through all market cycles. We believe that this forward looking view has consistently benefited our shareholders, agents, policyholders and associates. To measure our progress, we have defined a measure of value creation that we believe captures the contribution of our insurance operations, the success of our investment strategy and the importance we place on paying cash dividends to shareholders. We refer to this measure as our value creation ratio, or VCR, and it is made up of two primary components: (1) our rate of growth in book value per share plus (2) the ratio of dividends declared per share to beginning book value per share. For the period 2010 through 2014, an annual value creation ratio averaging 12 percent to 15 percent is our primary performance target. Management believes this non GAAP measure is a useful supplement to GAAP information. With heightened economic and market uncertainty since 2008, we believe the long term nature of this ratio is an appropriate way to measure our long term progress in creating shareholder value. One Three year Five year year % average % average Value creation ratio as of December 31, 2009 19.7 % (3.2 ) % 1.7 % as of December 31, 2008 (23.5 ) (4.2 ) (1.3 ) as of December 31, 2007 (5.7 ) 4.1 6.3 When looking at our longer term objectives, we see three performance drivers: Premium growth We believe over any five year period our agency relationships and initiatives can lead to a property casualty written premium growth rate that exceeds the industry average. The compound annual growth rate of our net written premiums was negative 0.6 percent over the five year period 2005 through 2009, equal to the negative 0.6 percent estimated growth rate for the property casualty insurance industry. Combined ratio We believe our underwriting philosophy and initiatives can generate a GAAP combined ratio over any five year period that is consistently below 100 percent. Our GAAP combined ratio has averaged 95.6 percent over the five year period 2005 through 2009. Our combined ratio was below 100 percent in each year during the period, except 2008 and 2009, which averaged 102.5 percent, and which averaged catastrophe losses that were 2.5 percentage points higher than the average for the 10 year period prior to 2008. Performance as measured by the combined ratio is discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 46. Our statutory combined ratio averaged 95.4 percent over the five year period 2005 through 2009 compared with an estimated 98.9 percent for the property casualty industry. Page 34 Investment contribution We believe our investment philosophy and initiatives can drive investment income growth and lead to a total return on our equity investment portfolio over a five year period that exceeds the five year return of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. o Investment income growth, on a before tax basis, grew at a compound annual rate of 0.3 percent over the five year period 2005 through 2009. It grew in each year except 2008 and 2009, when we experienced a dramatic reduction in dividend payouts by financial services companies held in our equity portfolio, a risk we addressed aggressively during 2008, completing that effort in early 2009. o Over the five years ended December 31, 2009, our compound annual equity portfolio return was a negative 5.8 percent compared with a compound annual total return of 0.4 percent for the Index. Our equity portfolio underperformed the market for the five year period primarily because of the decline in the market value of our previously large holdings in the financial services sector. For the year 2009, our compound annual equity portfolio return was 16.4 percent, compared with 26.5 percent for the Index, as the broad market rally did not favor the higher quality, dividend paying stocks we prefer. The board of directors is committed to rewarding shareholders directly through cash dividends and through authorizing share repurchases. The board also has periodically declared stock dividends and splits. Through 2009, the company has increased the indicated annual cash dividend rate for 49 consecutive years, a record we believe is matched by only 11 other publicly traded companies. The board regularly evaluates relevant factors in dividend related decisions, and the increase reflects confidence in our strong capital, liquidity and financial flexibility, as well as progress through our initiatives to improve earnings performance. We discuss our financial position in more detail in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Page 68. Strategic Initiatives Highlights Management has worked to identify the strategies that can lead to long term success, with concurrence by the board of directors. Our strategies are intended to position us to compete successfully in the markets we have targeted while appropriately managing risk. We believe successful implementation of the initiatives that support our strategies will help us better serve our agent customers, reduce volatility in our financial results and weather difficult economic, market or industry pricing cycles. Manage capital effectively Continued focus on these initiatives is intended to manage our capital and liquidity so that we can successfully grow our insurance business. A strong capital position provides the capacity to support premium growth and provides the liquidity to pay claims while sustaining our investment in the people and infrastructure needed to implement our other strategic initiatives. Improve insurance profitability Implementation of these operational initiatives is intended to support profitable growth for the agencies that represent us and for our company. These initiatives seek to enhance our underwriting or pricing expertise and to provide more advanced technology to our agents, allowing them to serve clients faster and manage expenses better. Some initiatives also streamline our internal processes so we can devote more resources to agent service. Drive premium growth Implementation of these operational initiatives is intended to expand our geographic footprint and diversify our premium sources to obtain profitable growth without significant infrastructure expense. Diversified growth also may reduce our catastrophe exposure risk. We discuss each of these strategies, along with the metrics we use to assess their progress, in Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 8, Factors Influencing Our Future Performance In 2009, our value creation ratio result exceeded our target annual average of 12 percent to 15 percent for the period 2010 through 2014, and in 2008, it was below our target, as discussed in the review of our financial highlights below. For the year 2010, we believe our value creation ratio may be below our long term target for several reasons. The strong rally in financial markets during 2009 had a highly favorable impact on our 2009 value creation ratio, offsetting much of the unfavorable impact of the sharp decline in financial markets during 2008. That decline also was reflected in the value creation ratio. Should financial markets decline during 2010, which could occur as part of typical volatility patterns, the related component of our 2010 value creation ratio could also register a weak or negative result. Lingering effects of soft insurance market pricing are expected to affect growth rates and earned premium levels into 2010 and perhaps later, depending on when insurance market conditions improve. These conditions continue to weaken loss ratios and hamper near term profitability. Economic factors, including inflation, may increase our claims and settlement expenses related to medical care, litigation and construction. The weak economy is expected to continue to affect policyholders by deflating the valuation of their business and personal insurable assets. Until the weak economy significantly strengthens, we do not expect to see significant premium growth for the property casualty industry or our commercial lines Page 35 segment, which represented 75 percent of our 2009 property casualty net written premiums. Property casualty written premium growth also may lag as our growth initiatives need more time to reach their full contribution. We will incur the cost of continued investment in our business, including technology, entry in new states and process initiatives to create long term value. In addition, we will not see the full advantage of many of these investments for several years. Diversification of the investment portfolio during 2008 and early 2009 included sales of selected positions to lock in gains, reduce concentrations and increase liquidity. Proceeds of sales were reinvested in both fixed income and in equity securities with yields that we believe are likely to be more secure, but which could result in slower growth of investment income. We expect to continue making changes to the portfolio, as appropriate. Our view of the value we can create over the next five years relies on two assumptions about the external environment. First, we anticipate some firming of commercial insurance pricing by the end of 2010. Second, we believe that the economy and financial markets can resume a growth track by the end of 2010. If those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, we may not be able to achieve our performance targets even if we accomplish our strategic objectives. Other factors that could influence our ability to achieve our targets include: We expect the insurance marketplace to remain competitive, which is likely to cause carriers to pursue strategies that they believe could lead to economies of scale, market share gains or the potential for an improved competitive posture. Direct writers will continue to be a factor in the personal insurance market. We expect the independent insurance agency system to remain strong and viable, with continued agency consolidation, especially as agency margins come under more pressure due to soft pricing and the difficult economic environment. The soft commercial market that has extended into 2010 creates additional risk for agencies. We expect the soft market to continue for much of 2010, particularly in non catastrophe event prone states and lines of business, absent a significant event or events. We expect initiatives that make it easier for agents to do business with us will continue to be a significant factor in agency relationships, with technology being a major driver. Policyholders will increasingly demand online services and access from agents or carriers. We discuss in our Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 23, many potential risks to our business and our ability to achieve our qualitative and quantitative objectives. These are real risks, but their probability of occurring may not be high. We also believe that our risk management programs generally could mitigate their potential effects, in the event they would occur. We continue to study emerging risks, including climate change risk and its potential financial effects on our results of operation and those we insure. These effects include deterioration in credit quality of our municipal or corporate bond portfolios and increased losses without sufficient corresponding increases in premiums. As with any risk, we seek to identify the extent of the risk exposure and possible actions to mitigate potential negative effects of risk, at an enterprise level. We have formal risk management programs overseen by a senior officer and supported by a team of representatives from business areas. The team makes reports to our chairman, our president and chief executive officer and our board of directors, as appropriate, on risk assessments, risk metrics and risk plans. Our use of operational audits, strategic plans and departmental business plans, as well as our culture of open communications and our fundamental respect for our Code of Conduct, continue to help us manage risks on an ongoing basis. Below we review highlights of our financial results for the past three years. Detailed discussion of these topics appears in Results of Operations, Page 46, and Liquidity and Capital Resources, Page 68. Corporate Financial Highlights The value creation ratio discussed in the Executive Summary, Page 34, was 19.7 percent in 2009, negative 23.5 percent in 2008 and negative 5.7 percent in 2007. The book value per share growth component of the value creation ratio was 13.6 percent during 2009, largely reflecting improved valuation of our investment portfolio in addition to earnings. In both 2008 and 2007, a decline in unrealized gains on our investment portfolio was the most significant factor in the decline in book value as discussed below. In 2009 and 2008, net income also was significantly below the level of 2007. Cash dividends declared per share rose 0.6 percent in 2009, 9.9 percent in 2008 and 6.0 percent in 2007. Page 36 Balance Sheet Data At December 31, At December 31, (Dollars in millions except share data) 2009 2008 Balance sheet data Invested assets $ 10,643 $ 8,890 Total assets 14,440 13,369 Short term debt 49 49 Long term debt 790 791 Shareholders equity 4,760 4,182 Book value per share 29.25 25.75 Debt to capital ratio 15.0 % 16.7 % Invested assets increased significantly for the year 2009 primarily due to a strong rally in the financial markets, reversing the trend of 2008 from lower fair values for portfolio investments, largely due to economic factors. Entering 2009, the portfolio was substantially more diversified and generally better positioned to withstand short term fluctuations compared with recent years. The downturn in the economy during 2008 had a particularly adverse effect on our financial sector equity holdings, which made up a significant portion of the portfolio prior to mid 2008. We discuss our investment strategy in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 18, and results for the segment in Investment Results of Operations, Page 64. Our ratio of debt to total capital (debt plus shareholders equity) decreased during 2009 after rising in 2008. The increase during 2008 was due to the effect on shareholders equity from the declining value of our invested assets. Income Statement and Per Share Data Twelve months ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions except share data) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Income statement data Earned premiums $ 3,054 $ 3,136 $ 3,250 (2.6 ) (3.5 ) Investment income, net of expenses (pretax) 501 537 608 (6.8 ) (11.6 ) Realized investment gains and losses (pretax) 336 138 382 144.5 (64.0 ) Total revenues 3,903 3,824 4,259 2.1 (10.2 ) Net income 432 429 855 0.7 (49.9 ) Per share data Net income $ 2.65 $ 2.62 $ 4.97 1.1 (47.3 ) Cash dividends declared 1.57 1.56 1.42 0.6 9.9 Weighted average shares outstanding 162,866,863 163,362,409 172,167,452 (0.3 ) (5.1 ) Net income increased $3 million during 2009, reflecting the after tax net effect of three major contributing items: a $132 million increase from net realized investment gains, partially offset by a $48 million decrease from investment income and a $74 million decrease from property casualty underwriting results. Net income declined in 2008 because of a decline in realized investment gains, a first ever decline in investment income and a lower aggregate contribution from our insurance segments. A 2008 pension plan settlement reduced 2008 net income by $17 million, or 11 cents per share. The transition from a defined benefit pension plan reduced company risk while providing a company sponsored 401(k) match to associates. Weighted average shares outstanding may fluctuate from period to period due to repurchases of shares under board authorizations or issuance of shares when associates exercise stock options. Weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis declined by less than 1 million in 2009, after declining 9 million in 2008 and 3 million in 2007. As discussed in Investment Results of Operation, Page 64, security sales led to realized investment gains in all three years, although 2008 gains were tempered by $510 million in other than temporary impairment charges. Realized investment gains and losses are integral to our financial results over the long term. We have substantial discretion in the timing of investment sales and, therefore, the gains or losses that are recognized in any period. That discretion generally is independent of the insurance underwriting process. Also, applicable accounting standards require us to recognize gains and losses from certain changes in fair values of securities and for securities with embedded derivatives without actual realization of those gains and losses. Lower income from common stock dividends led to a 6.8 percent decline in pretax net investment income in 2009, improving on an 11.6 percent decline for 2008, which was the first decline for this measure in company history. The primary reason for the decline was dividend reductions by common and preferred holdings, including reductions during the year on positions subsequently sold or reduced. Page 37 Contribution from Insurance Operations Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Consolidated property casualty highlights Written premiums $ 2,911 $ 3,010 $ 3,117 (3.3 ) (3.4 ) Earned premiums 2,911 3,010 3,125 (3.3 ) (3.7 ) Underwriting (loss) profit (131 ) (17 ) 304 nm nm Pt. Change Pt. Change GAAP combined ratio 104.5 % 100.6 % 90.3 % 3.9 10.3 Statutory combined ratio 104.4 100.4 90.3 4.0 10.1 Written premium to statutory surplus 0.8 0.9 0.7 (0.1 ) 0.2 The decline in property casualty written premium growth reflected the competitive and market factors discussed in Item 1, Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 12 and Page 15. In both 2009 and 2008, our property casualty insurance operations reported an underwriting loss after achieving record profitability in 2007. We measure property casualty underwriting profitability primarily by the combined ratio. Our combined ratio measures the percentage of each earned premium dollar spent on claims plus all expenses related to our property casualty operations. A lower ratio indicates more favorable results and better underlying performance. In 2009, 2008 and 2007, favorable development on reserves for claims that occurred in prior accident years helped offset incurred loss and loss expenses. Reserve development is discussed further in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, Pages 71 through 72. Catastrophe losses fluctuated dramatically over the three year period, with higher than average contributions to the combined ratio of 5.7 and 6.8 percentage points in 2009 and 2008, respectively, following an unusually low 0.8 points in 2007. Our 10 year historical annual average contribution of catastrophe losses to the combined ratio was 4.2 percentage points as of December 31, 2009. The pension plan settlement increased the 2008 combined ratio by 0.8 percentage points. During 2009, our excess and surplus lines operations contributed $39 million to net written premiums and $27 million to earned premiums. We began excess and surplus lines operations in 2008, and performance is consistent with expectations, including a modest underwriting loss primarily due to start up expenses related to technology for processing business. Our life insurance segment continued to provide a consistent source of profit. We discuss results for the segment in Life Insurance Results of Operations, Page 62. Investment income and realized investment gains from the life insurance investment portfolio are included in Investments segment results. Critical Accounting Estimates Cincinnati Financial Corporations financial statements are prepared using GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 94. In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the companys critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting policies, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may be appropriate. Property Casualty Insurance Loss And Loss Expense Reserves We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our property casualty insurance business as balance sheet liabilities. These reserves account for unpaid loss and loss expenses as of a financial statement date. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are the estimated amounts necessary to pay for and settle all outstanding insured claims, including incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims, as of that date. For some lines of business that we write, a considerable and uncertain amount of time can elapse between the occurrence, reporting and payment of insured claims. The amount we will actually have to pay for such claims also can be highly uncertain. This uncertainty, together with the size of our reserves, makes the loss and loss expense reserves our most significant estimate. Gross loss and loss expense reserves were $4.096 billion at year end 2009 compared with $4.040 billion at year end 2008. How Reserves Are Established Our field claims representatives establish case reserves when claims are reported to the company to provide for our unpaid loss and loss expense obligation associated with individual claims. Experienced Page 38 headquarters claims supervisors review individual case reserves greater than $35,000 that were established by field claims representatives. Headquarters claims managers also review case reserves greater than $100,000. Our claims representatives base their case reserve estimates primarily upon case by case evaluations that consider: type of claim involved circumstances surrounding each claim policy provisions pertaining to each claim potential for subrogation or salvage recoverable general insurance reserving practices Case reserves of all sizes are subject to review on a 90 day cycle, or more frequently if new information about a loss becomes available. As part of the review process, we monitor industry trends, cost trends, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional loss exposures. We also establish incurred but not reported (IBNR) reserves to provide for all unpaid loss and loss expenses not accounted for by case reserves: For weather events designated as catastrophes, we calculate IBNR reserves directly as a result of an estimated IBNR claim count and an estimated average claim amount for each event. Our claims department management coordinates the assessment of these events and prepares the related IBNR reserve estimates. Such an assessment involves a comprehensive analysis of the nature of the storm, of policyholder exposures within the affected geographic area and of available claims intelligence. Depending on the nature of the event, available claims intelligence could include surveys of field claims associates within the affected geographic area, feedback from a catastrophe claims team sent into the area, as well as data on claims reported as of the financial statement date. We generally use the catastrophe definition provided by Property Claims Service, a division of Insurance Services Office (ISO). PCS defines a catastrophe as an event that causes countrywide damage of $25 million or more in insured property losses and affects a significant number of policyholders and insureds. For asbestos and environmental claims, we calculate IBNR reserves by deriving an actuarially based estimate of total unpaid loss and loss expenses. We then reduce the estimate by total case reserves. We discuss the reserve analysis that applies to asbestos and environmental reserves in Asbestos and Environmental Reserves, Page 74. For all other claims and events, IBNR reserves are calculated as the difference between an actuarial estimate of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred reduced by the sum of total loss and loss expense payments and total case reserves estimated for individual claims. We discuss below the development of actuarially based estimates of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred. Our actuarial staff applies significant judgment in selecting models and estimating model parameters when preparing reserve analyses. In addition, unpaid loss and loss expenses are inherently uncertain as to timing and amount. Uncertainties relating to model appropriateness, parameter estimates and actual loss and loss expense amounts are referred to as model, parameter and process uncertainty, respectively. Our management and actuarial staff control for these uncertainties in the reserving process in a variety of ways. Our actuarial staff bases its IBNR reserve estimates for these losses primarily on the indications of methods and models that analyze accident year data. Accident year is the year in which an insured claim, loss, or loss expense occurred. The specific methods and models that our actuaries have used for the past several years are: paid and reported loss development methods paid and reported loss Bornhuetter Ferguson methods individual and multiple probabilistic trend family models Our actuarial staff uses diagnostics provided by stochastic reserving software to evaluate the appropriateness of the models and methods listed above. The softwares diagnostics have indicated that the appropriateness of these models and methods for estimating IBNR reserves for our lines of business tends to depend on a lines tail. Tail refers to the time interval between a typical claims occurrence and its settlement. For our long tail lines such as workers compensation and commercial casualty, models from the probabilistic trend family tend to provide superior fits and to validate well compared with models underlying the loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. The loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, particularly the reported loss variations, tend to produce the more appropriate IBNR reserve estimates for our short tail lines such as homeowner and commercial property. For our mid tail lines such as personal and commercial auto liability, all models and methods provide useful insights. Page 39 Our actuarial staff also devotes significant time and effort to the estimation of model and method parameters. The loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods require the estimation of numerous loss development factors. The Bornhuetter Ferguson methods also involve the estimation of numerous ultimate loss ratios by accident year. Models from the probabilistic trend family require the estimation of development trends, calendar year inflation trends and exposure levels. Consequently, our actuarial staff monitors a number of trends and measures to gain key business insights necessary for exercising appropriate judgment when estimating the parameters mentioned. These trends and measures include: company and industry pricing company and industry exposure company and industry loss frequency and severity past large loss events such as hurricanes company and industry premium company in force policy count These trends and measures also support the estimation of ultimate accident year loss ratios needed for applying the Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and for assessing the reasonability of all IBNR reserve estimates computed. Our actuarial staff reviews these trends and measures quarterly, updating parameters derived from them as necessary. Quarterly, our actuarial staff summarizes its reserve analysis by preparing an actuarial best estimate and a range of reasonable IBNR reserves intended to reflect the uncertainty of the estimate. An inter departmental committee that includes our actuarial management team reviews the results of each quarterly reserve analysis. The committee establishes managements best estimate of IBNR reserves, which is the amount that is included in each periods financial statements. In addition to the information provided by actuarial staff, the committee also considers factors such as the following: large loss activity and trends in large losses new business activity judicial decisions general economic trends such as inflation trends in litigiousness and legal expenses product and underwriting changes changes in claims practices The determination of managements best estimate, like the preparation of the reserve analysis that supports it, involves considerable judgment. Changes in reserving data or the trends and factors that influence reserving data may signal fundamental shifts or may simply reflect single period anomalies. Even if a change reflects a fundamental shift, the full extent of the change may not become evident until years later. Moreover, since our methods and models do not explicitly relate many of the factors we consider directly to reserve levels, we typically cannot quantify the precise impact of such factors on the adequacy of reserves prospectively or retrospectively. Due to the uncertainties described above, our ultimate loss experience could prove better or worse than our carried reserves reflect. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and increased, the amount of the increase is a charge in the period that the deficiency is recognized, raising our loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. To the extent that reserves are redundant and released, the amount of the release is a credit in the period that the redundancy is recognized, reducing our loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings. Key Assumptions Loss Reserving Our actuarial staff makes a number of key assumptions when using their methods and models to derive IBNR reserve estimates. Appropriate reliance on these key assumptions essentially entails determinations of the likelihood that statistically significant patterns in historical data may extend into the future. The four most significant of the key assumptions used by our actuarial staff and approved by management are: Emergence of loss and allocated loss expenses on an accident year basis. Historical paid loss, reported loss and paid allocated loss expense data for the business lines we analyze contain patterns that reflect how unpaid losses, unreported losses and unpaid allocated loss expenses as of a financial statement date will emerge in the future on an accident year basis. Unless our actuarial staff or management identifies reasons or factors that invalidate the extension of historical patterns into the future, these patterns can be used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. Our actuaries significantly rely on this assumption in the application of all methods and models mentioned above. Page 40 Calendar year inflation. For long tail and mid tail business lines, calendar year inflation trends for future paid losses and paid allocated loss expenses will not vary significantly from a stable, long term average. Our actuaries base reserve estimates derived from probabilistic trend family models on this assumption. Exposure levels. Historical earned premiums, when adjusted to reflect common levels of product pricing and loss cost inflation, can serve as a proxy for historical exposures. Our actuaries require this assumption to estimate expected loss ratios and expected allocated loss expense ratios used by the Bornhuetter Ferguson reserving methods. They also use this assumption to establish exposure levels for recent accident years, characterized by green or immature data, when working with probabilistic trend family models. Claims having atypical emergence patterns. Characteristics of certain subsets of claims, such as high frequency, high severity, or mass tort claims, have the potential to distort patterns contained in historical paid loss, reported loss and paid allocated loss expense data. When testing indicates this to be the case for a particular subset of claims, our actuaries segregate these claims from the data and analyze them separately. Subsets of claims that could fall into this category include hurricane claims, individual large claims and asbestos and environmental claims. These key assumptions have not changed since 2005, when our actuarial staff began using probabilistic trend family models to estimate IBNR reserves. Paid losses, reported losses and paid allocated loss expenses are subject to random as well as systematic influences. As a result, actual paid losses, reported losses and paid allocated loss expenses are virtually certain to differ from projections. Such differences are consistent with what specific models for our business lines predict and with the related patterns in the historical data used to develop these models. As a result, management does not closely monitor statistically insignificant differences between actual and projected data. Reserve Estimate Variability Management believes that the standard error of a reserve estimate, a measure of the estimates variability, provides the most appropriate measure of the estimates sensitivity. The reserves we establish depend on the models we use and the related parameters we estimate in the course of conducting reserve analyses. However, the actual amount required to settle all outstanding insured claims, including IBNR claims, as of a financial statement date depends on stochastic, or random, elements as well as the systematic elements captured by our models and estimated model parameters. For the lines of business we write, process uncertainty the inherent variability of loss and loss expense payments typically contributes more to the imprecision of a reserve estimate than parameter uncertainty. Consequently, a sensitivity measure that ignores process uncertainty would provide an incomplete picture of the reserve estimates sensitivity. Since a reserve estimates standard error accounts for both process and parameter uncertainty, it reflects the estimates full sensitivity to a range of reasonably likely scenarios. The table below provides standard errors and reserve ranges for lines of business that account for just over 90 percent of our 2009 loss and loss expense reserves as well as the potential effects on our net income, assuming a 35 percent federal tax rate. Standard errors and reserve ranges for assorted groupings of these lines of business cannot be computed by simply adding the standard errors and reserve ranges of the component lines of business, since such an approach would ignore the effects of product diversification. See Range of Reasonable Reserves, Page 72, for more details on our total reserve range. While the table reflects our assessment of the most likely range within which each lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses may fall, one or more lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges. Page 41 Net loss and loss expense range of reserves Carried Low High Standard Net income (In millions) reserves point point error effect At December 31, 2009 Total $ 3,661 $ 3,459 $ 3,774 Commercial casualty $ 1,605 $ 1,459 $ 1,691 $ 116 $ 75 Commercial property 115 93 136 21 14 Commercial auto 374 355 393 19 12 Workers compensation 975 887 1,035 74 48 Personal auto 154 146 161 8 5 Homeowners 89 80 98 9 6 At December 31, 2008 Total $ 3,498 $ 3,256 $ 3,592 Commercial casualty $ 1,559 $ 1,280 $ 1,595 $ 158 $ 103 Commercial property 137 123 160 19 12 Commercial auto 385 367 401 17 11 Workers compensation 842 854 943 45 29 Personal auto 165 153 170 8 5 Homeowners 82 74 90 8 5 If actual unpaid loss and loss expenses fall within these ranges, our cash flow and fixed maturity investments should provide sufficient liquidity to make the subsequent payments. To date, our cash flow has covered our loss and loss expense payments, and we have never had to sell investments to make these payments. If this were to become necessary, however, our fixed maturity investments should provide us with ample liquidity. At year end 2009, consolidated fixed maturity investments exceeded total insurance reserves (including life policy reserves) by more than $1.930 billion. Life Insurance Policy Reserves We establish the reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions. We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments. Asset Impairment Our fixed maturity and equity investment portfolios are our largest assets. The companys asset impairment committee continually monitors the holdings in these portfolios and all other assets for signs of other than temporary or permanent impairment. The committee monitors significant decreases in the fair value of invested assets, changes in legal factors or in the business climate, an accumulation of costs in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset, uncollectability of all receivable assets, or other factors such as bankruptcy, deterioration of creditworthiness, failure to pay interest or dividends or signs indicating that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of our impairment policy resulted in other than temporary impairment charges that reduced our income before income taxes by $131 million in 2009, $510 million in 2008 and $16 million in 2007. Impairment charges are recorded for other than temporary declines in value, if, in the asset impairment committees judgment, there is little expectation that the value may be recouped within a designated recovery period. Other than temporary impairment losses represent non cash charges to income and are reported as realized investment losses. Our portfolio managers monitor their assigned portfolios. If a security is trading below book value, the portfolio managers undertake additional reviews. Such declines often occur in conjunction with events taking place in the overall economy and market, combined with events specific to the industry or operations of the issuing organization. Management reviews quantitative measurements such as a declining trend in fair value, the extent of the fair value decline and the length of time the value of the security has been depressed, as well as qualitative measures such as pending events, credit ratings and issuer liquidity. We are even more proactive when these declines in valuation are greater than might be anticipated when viewed in the context of overall economic and market conditions. We provide information Page 42 about valuation of our invested assets in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 100. All securities valued below 100 percent of book value are reported to the asset impairment committee for evaluation. Securities valued between 95 percent and 100 percent of book value are reviewed but not monitored separately by the committee. These assets generally are at this value because of interest rate driven factors. When evaluating for other than temporary impairments, the committee considers the companys intent and ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover its cost. Because of the companys financial strength, management may not impair certain securities even when they are trading below book value. When determining OTTI charges for our fixed maturity portfolio, management places significant emphasis on whether issuers of debt are current on contractual payments and whether future contractual amounts are likely to be paid. Our fixed maturity invested asset impairment policy states that OTTI is considered to have occurred (1) if we intend to sell the impaired fixed maturity security; (2) if it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis; or (3) the present value of the expected cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis. If we intend to sell or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell, the book value of any such securities is reduced to fair value as the new cost basis, and a realized loss is recorded in the quarter in which it is recognized. When we believe that full collection of interest and or principal is not likely, we determine the net present value of future cash flows by using the effective interest rate implicit in the security at the date of acquisition as the discount rate and compare that amount to the amortized cost and fair value of the security. The difference between the net present value of the expected future cash flows and amortized cost of the security is considered a credit loss and recognized as a realized loss in the quarter in which it occurred. The difference between the fair value and the net present value of the cash flows of the security, the non credit loss, is recognized in other comprehensive income as an unrealized loss. When determining OTTI charges for our equity portfolio, our invested asset impairment policy considers qualitative and quantitative factors, including facts and circumstances specific to individual securities, asset classes, the financial condition of the issuer, changes in dividend payment, the length of time fair value had been less than book value, the severity of the decline in fair value below book value, the volatility of the security and our ability and intent to hold each position until its forecasted recovery. For each of our equity securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2009, we applied the objective quantitative and qualitative criteria of our invested asset impairment policy for OTTI. Our long term equity investment philosophy, emphasizing companies with strong indications of paying and growing dividends, combined with our strong surplus, liquidity and cash flow, provide us the ability to hold these investments through what we believe to be slightly longer recovery periods occasioned by the recession and historic levels of market volatility. We review the expected recovery period by individual security. Based on the individual qualitative and quantitative factors, as discussed above, we evaluate and determine an expected recovery period for each security. A change in the condition of a security can warrant impairment before the expected recovery period. If the security has not recovered cost within the expected recovery period, the security is impaired. Securities that have previously been impaired are evaluated based on their adjusted book value and written down further, if deemed appropriate. We provide detailed information about securities trading in a continuous loss position at year end 2009 in Item 7A, Application of Asset Impairment Policy, Page 85. An other than temporary decline in the fair value of a security is recognized in net income as a realized investment loss. Securities considered to have a temporary decline would be expected to recover their book value, which may be at maturity. Under the same accounting treatment as fair value gains, temporary declines (changes in the fair value of these securities) are reflected in shareholders equity on our balance sheet in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, and have no impact on net income. Fair Value Measurements Valuation of Financial Instruments Valuation of financial instruments, primarily securities held in our investment portfolio, is a critical component of our year end financial statement preparation. Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, ASC 820 10, defines fair value as the exit price or the amount that would be (1) received to sell an asset or (2) paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between marketplace participants at the measurement date. When determining an exit price, we must, whenever possible, rely upon observable market data. Prior to the adoption of ASC 820 10, we considered various factors such as liquidity and volatility but primarily obtained pricing from various external services, including broker quotes. The fair value measurement and disclosure exit price notion requires our valuation also to consider what a marketplace participant would pay to buy an asset or receive to assume a liability. Therefore, while we can Page 43 consider pricing data from outside services, we ultimately determine whether the data or inputs used by these outside services are observable or unobservable. In accordance with ASC 820 10, we have categorized our financial instruments, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three level fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as described in Item 8, Note 3, Fair Value Measurements, Page 103. Level 1 and Level 2 Valuation Techniques Over 99 percent of the $10.562 billion of securities in our investment portfolio measured at fair value are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Financial assets that fall within Level 1 and Level 2 are priced according to observable data from identical or similar securities that have traded in the marketplace. Also within Level 2 are securities that are valued by outside services or brokers where we have evaluated the pricing methodology and determined that the inputs are observable. Included in the Level 2 hierarchy is a small portfolio of collateralized mortgage obligations (CMOs) that represented less than 1 percent of the fair value of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2009. We obtained the CMOs as part of the termination of our securities lending program during 2008. Level 3 Valuation Techniques Financial assets that fall within the Level 3 hierarchy are valued based upon unobservable market inputs, normally because they are not actively traded on a public market. Level 3 corporate fixed maturity securities include certain private placements, small issues, general corporate bonds and medium term notes. Level 3 state, municipal and political subdivisions fixed maturity securities include various thinly traded municipal bonds. Level 3 common equities include private equity securities. Level 3 preferred equities include private and thinly traded preferred securities. Pricing for each Level 3 security is based upon inputs that are market driven, including third party reviews provided to the issuer or broker quotes. However, we placed in the Level 3 hierarchy securities for which we were unable to obtain the pricing methodology or we could not consider the price provided as binding. Pricing for securities classified as Level 3 could not be corroborated by similar securities priced using observable inputs. Management ultimately determined the pricing for each Level 3 security that we considered to be the best exit price valuation. As of December 31, 2009, total Level 3 assets were less than 1 percent of our investment portfolio measured at fair value. Broker quotes are obtained for thinly traded securities that subsequently fall within the Level 3 hierarchy. We obtained two non binding quotes from brokers and, after evaluating, our investment professionals typically selected the lower quote as the fair value. Employee Benefit Pension Plan We have a defined benefit pension plan which was modified during 2008; refer to Item 8, Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 109, for additional information. Contributions and pension costs are developed from annual actuarial valuations. These valuations involve key assumptions including discount rates and expected return on plan assets, which are updated annually. Any adjustments to these assumptions are based on considerations of current market conditions. Therefore, changes in the related pension costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in assumptions. Key assumptions used in developing the 2009 net pension obligation were a 6.10 percent discount rate and rates of compensation increases ranging from 4.00 percent to 6.00 percent. Key assumptions used in developing the 2009 net pension expense were a 6.00 percent discount rate, an 8.00 percent expected return on plan assets and rates of compensation increases ranging from 4.00 percent to 6.00 percent. See Note 13, Page 109 for additional information on assumptions. In 2009, the net pension expense was $11 million. In 2010, we expect the net pension expense to be $12 million. Holding all other assumptions constant, a 0.5 percentage point change in the discount rate would affect our 2010 income before income taxes by $1 million. Likewise, a 0.5 percentage point change in the expected return on plan assets would affect our 2010 income before income taxes by $1 million. The fair value of the plan assets was $42 million less than the accumulated benefit obligation at year end 2009 and $52 million less at year end 2008. The fair value of the plan assets was $77 million less than the projected plan benefit obligation at year end 2009 and $88 million less at year end 2008. Market conditions and interest rates significantly affect future assets and liabilities of the pension plan. In 2010, we expect to contribute approximately $25 million to our qualified plan. Page 44 Deferred Acquisition Costs We establish a deferred asset for costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, acquiring property casualty and life insurance business. These costs are principally agent commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting costs, which are deferred and amortized into net income as premiums are earned. Deferred acquisition costs track with the change in premiums. Underlying assumptions are updated periodically to reflect actual experience. Changes in the amounts or timing of estimated future profits could result in adjustments to the accumulated amortization of these costs. For property casualty policies, deferred acquisition costs are amortized over the terms of the policies. We assess recoverability of deferred acquisition costs at the segment level, consistent with the ways we acquire service, manage and measure profitability. Our standard market insurance operations consist of two segments, commercial lines and personal lines. We also have deferred acquisition costs in our excess and surplus lines operation, which is reported in Other. For life policies, acquisition costs are amortized into income either over the premium paying period of the policies or the life of the policy, depending on the policy type. We analyze our acquisition cost assumptions periodically to reflect actual experience; we evaluate our deferred acquisition cost for recoverability; and we regularly conduct reviews for potential premium deficiencies or loss recognition. Contingent Commission Accrual Another significant estimate relates to our accrual for property casualty contingent (profit sharing) commissions. We base the contingent commission accrual estimate on property casualty underwriting results and on supplemental information. Contingent commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account agency profitability, premium volume and other factors, such as prompt monthly payment of amounts due to the company. Due to the complexity of the calculation and the variety of factors that can affect contingent commissions for an individual agency, the amount accrued can differ from the actual contingent commissions paid. The contingent commission accrual of $81 million in 2009 contributed 2.8 percentage points to the property casualty combined ratio. If contingent commissions paid were to vary from that amount by 5 percent, it would affect 2010 net income by $3 million (after tax), or 2 cents per share, and the combined ratio by approximately 0.1 percentage points. Separate Accounts We issue life contracts referred to as bank owned life insurance policies (BOLI). Based on the specific contract provisions, the assets and liabilities for some BOLIs are legally segregated and recorded as assets and liabilities of the separate accounts. Other BOLIs are included in the general account. For separate account BOLIs, minimum investment returns and account values are guaranteed by the company and also include death benefits to beneficiaries of the contract holders. Separate account assets are carried at fair value. Separate account liabilities primarily represent the contract holders claims to the related assets and are carried at an amount equal to the contract holders account value. Generally, investment income and realized investment gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contract holders and, therefore, are not included in our Consolidated Statements of Income. However, each separate account contract includes a negotiated realized gain and loss sharing arrangement with the company. This share is transferred from the separate account to our general account and is recognized as revenue or expense. In the event that the asset value of contract holders accounts is projected below the value guaranteed by the company, a liability is established through a charge to our earnings. For our most significant separate account, written in 1999, realized gains and losses are retained in the separate account and are deferred and amortized to the contract holder over a five year period, subject to certain limitations. Upon termination or maturity of this separate account contract, any unamortized deferred gains and or losses will revert to the general account. In the event this separate account holder were to exchange the contract for the policy of another carrier in 2010, the account holder would not pay a surrender charge. The surrender charge is zero in 2010 and beyond. At year end 2009, net unamortized realized losses amounted to $7 million. In accordance with this separate account agreement, the investment assets must meet certain criteria established by the regulatory authorities to whose jurisdiction the group contract holder is subject. Therefore, sales of investments may be mandated to maintain compliance with these regulations, possibly requiring gains or losses to be recorded and charged to the general account. Potentially, losses could be material; however, unrealized losses are approximately $6 million before tax in the separate account portfolio, which had a book value of $541 million at year end 2009. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information about recent accounting pronouncements is provided in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 94. We have determined that recent accounting pronouncements have not had nor are they expected to have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Page 45 Results Of Operations Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results of our four reporting segments. These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of assets. Commercial lines property casualty insurance Personal lines property casualty insurance Life insurance Investments We report as Other the non investment operations of the parent company and its non insurer subsidiaries, CFC Investment Company and CSU Producers Resources Inc. We also report as Other the results of The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, as well as other income of our standard market property casualty insurance subsidiary. We measure profit or loss for our commercial lines and personal lines property casualty and life insurance segments based upon underwriting results (profit or loss), which represent net earned premium less loss and loss expenses and underwriting expenses on a pretax basis. We also frequently evaluate results for our consolidated property casualty insurance operations, which is the total of our commercial, personal plus our excess and surplus insurance results. Underwriting results and segment pretax operating income are not substitutes for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. For our consolidated property casualty insurance operations as well as the insurance segments, statutory accounting data and ratios are key performance indicators that we use to assess business trends and to make comparisons to industry results, since GAAP based industry data generally is not as readily available. Investments held by the parent company and the investment portfolios for the insurance subsidiaries are managed and reported as the investments segment, separate from the underwriting businesses. Net investment income and net realized investment gains and losses for our investment portfolios are discussed in the Investment Results of Operations. The calculations of segment data are described in more detail in Item 8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 115. The following sections review results of operations for each of the four segments. Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 49, Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 57, Life Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 62, and Investment Results of Operations begins on Page 64. We begin with an overview of our consolidated property casualty operations, which is the total of our commercial lines, personal lines plus excess and surplus lines results. Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results Of Operations In addition to the factors discussed in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49 and Page 57, overall growth and profitability for our consolidated property casualty insurance operations were affected by a number of common factors. The table below summarizes results of operations for our property casualty operations. Our 2009 and 2008 combined ratios before catastrophe losses and reserve development on prior accident years were substantially higher than 2007 primarily due to lower pricing prompted by soft market conditions and also due to normal loss cost inflation. During 2008, we also experienced a higher level of larger commercial lines losses and the impact of a pension plan settlement cost. The pension plan settlement increased the 2008 combined ratio by 0.8 percentage points. We have taken actions to manage expenses, increasing spending in some areas such as technology to pursue long term benefits and decreasing in other areas of our operation. However, lower pricing continues to put upward pressure on the underwriting expense ratio. This is consistent with industry trends as A.M. Best estimates that the industrys 2009 statutory underwriting expense ratio increased by 1.4 percentage points compared with the year 2006 level. Page 46 Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 2,911 $ 3,010 $ 3,125 (3.3 ) (3.7 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 2,102 2,174 2,030 (3.3 ) 7.1 Current accident year catastrophe losses 172 205 47 (16.2 ) 341.2 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (181 ) (321 ) (224 ) 43.8 (43.5 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (7 ) (2 ) (21 ) (259.0 ) 90.4 Total loss and loss expenses 2,086 2,056 1,832 1.4 12.2 Underwriting expenses 956 971 989 (1.5 ) (1.8 ) Underwriting (loss) profit $ (131 ) $ (17 ) $ 304 nm nm Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 72.2 % 72.2 % 64.9 % 0.0 7.3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 5.9 6.8 1.4 (0.9 ) 5.4 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (6.2 ) (10.7 ) (7.1 ) 4.5 (3.6 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (0.2 ) 0.0 (0.6 ) (0.2 ) 0.6 Total loss and loss expenses 71.7 68.3 58.6 3.4 9.7 Underwriting expenses 32.8 32.3 31.7 0.5 0.6 Combined ratio 104.5 % 100.6 % 90.3 % 3.9 10.3 Combined ratio 104.5 % 100.6 % 90.3 % 3.9 10.3 Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (0.5 ) (3.9 ) (6.3 ) 3.4 2.4 Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 105.0 % 104.5 % 96.6 % 0.5 7.9 Changes in written and earned premiums over the past three years reflected growing price competition partially offset by fairly stable policy retention rates of renewal business and increases in new business. New business written directly by agencies rose in both 2009 and 2008 after declining in 2007. The resurgence in new business was largely due to the contribution of new agency appointments in both new and existing states of operation; the contribution of our excess and surplus lines business; and more competitive personal lines pricing. Other written premiums primarily include premiums ceded to our reinsurers as part of our reinsurance program. Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 2,665 $ 2,828 $ 2,960 (5.8 ) (4.5 ) Agency new business written premiums 405 368 325 9.9 13.1 Other written premiums (159 ) (186 ) (168 ) 15.1 (10.3 ) Net written premiums 2,911 3,010 3,117 (3.3 ) (3.4 ) Unearned premium change 0 0 8 nm nm Earned premiums $ 2,911 $ 3,010 $ 3,125 (3.3 ) (3.7 ) Catastrophe losses contributed 5.7 percentage points to the combined ratio in 2009, down somewhat from the 2008 contribution of 6.8 percentage points, the highest catastrophe loss ratio for our company since 1991. In 2007, catastrophe losses added just 0.8 percentage points, the lowest ratio over the same period. Our 10 year historical annual average contribution of catastrophe losses to the combined ratio was 4.2 percentage points as of December 31, 2009. The following table shows catastrophe losses incurred, net of reinsurance, for the past three years, as well as the effect of loss development on prior period catastrophe reserves. Hurricane Ike, which reached the Gulf Coast on September 12, 2008, moved into the Midwest on September 14, causing unusually high winds in Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. At December 31, 2009, our gross losses from Hurricane Ike were estimated at $145 million, making it the single largest catastrophe in the companys history. Net of reinsurance, the loss was estimated at $59 million. Virtually all of the losses reported by our policyholders occurred in the Midwest. Page 47 Catastrophe Losses Incurred (In millions, net of reinsurance) Commercial Personal Dates Cause of loss Region lines lines Total 2009 Jan. 26 28 Flood, freezing, weight of ice, snow South, Midwest $ 5 $ 14 $ 19 Feb. 10 13 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 13 25 38 Feb. 18 19 Wind, hail South 1 8 9 Apr. 9 11 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 13 21 34 May 7 9 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 9 13 22 Jun. 2 6 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 3 4 7 Jun. 10 18 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 7 4 11 Sep. 18 22 Flood, hail, wind South 3 4 7 Other 2009 catastrophes 12 13 25 Development on 2008 and prior catastrophes (12 ) 5 (7 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 54 $ 111 $ 165 2008 Jan. 4 9 Wind, hail, flood, freezing South, Midwest $ 4 $ 2 $ 6 Jan. 29 30 Wind, hail Midwest 5 4 9 Feb. 5 6 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 5 8 13 Mar. 14 Tornadoes, wind, hail, flood South 4 0 4 Mar. 15 16 Wind, hail South 2 8 10 Apr. 9 11 Wind, hail, flood South 17 2 19 May 1 Wind, hail South 5 1 6 May 10 12 Wind, hail, flood South, Mid Atlantic 3 4 7 May 22 26 Wind, hail Midwest 4 3 7 May 29 Jun 1 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 4 4 8 Jun. 2 4 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 6 4 10 Jun. 5 8 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 8 6 14 Jun. 11 12 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 10 4 14 Jun. 25 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 2 2 4 Jul. 19 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 2 2 4 Jul. 26 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 1 7 8 Sep. 12 14 Hurricane Ike South, Midwest 22 36 58 Other 2008 catastrophes 2 2 4 Development on 2007 and prior catastrophes (3 ) 1 (2 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 103 $ 100 $ 203 2007 Mar. 1 2 Wind, hail, flood South $ 6 $ 2 $ 8 Jun. 7 9 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 4 5 9 Sep. 20 21 Wind, hail, flood Midwest 2 4 6 Other 2007 catastrophes 15 9 24 Development on 2006 and prior catastrophes (10 ) (11 ) (21 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 17 $ 9 $ 26 The rise in the total underwriting expense ratio since 2007 largely was due to the rise in non commission underwriting expenses, reflecting our continued investment in the people and systems necessary for our future growth, and also reflecting lower premiums. Commission expenses include our profit sharing, or contingent commissions, which are primarily based on the profitability of an agencys aggregate property casualty book of Cincinnati business. The commission ratio has declined from the 2007 level. These profit based commissions generally fluctuate with our loss and loss expense ratio, with the expense ratio generally increasing when our loss and loss expense ratio declines. The change in our pension plan added 0.5 percentage points to the 2008 non commission underwriting expense ratio. Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 539 $ 552 $ 599 (2.5 ) (7.8 ) Underwriting expenses 400 404 375 (1.0 ) 7.9 Policyholder dividends 17 15 15 16.2 (3.5 ) Total underwriting expenses $ 956 $ 971 $ 989 (1.5 ) (1.8 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Commission expenses 18.5 % 18.3 % 19.2 % 0.2 (0.9 ) Underwriting expenses 13.7 13.5 12.0 0.2 1.5 Policyholder dividends 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.1 0.0 Total underwriting expense ratio 32.8 % 32.3 % 31.7 % 0.5 0.6 The discussions of our property casualty insurance segments provide additional detail about these factors. Page 48 Commercial Lines Insurance Results Of Operations Overview Three Year Highlights Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 2,199 $ 2,316 $ 2,411 (5.1 ) (3.9 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 1,596 1,671 1,572 (4.5 ) 6.3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 66 106 26 (37.9 ) 299.7 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (135 ) (270 ) (194 ) 50.0 (39.3 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (12 ) (3 ) (10 ) (282.7 ) 69.3 Total loss and loss expenses 1,515 1,504 1,394 0.7 7.8 Underwriting expenses 719 742 756 (3.1 ) (1.8 ) Underwriting (loss) profit $ (35 ) $ 70 $ 261 nm (73.0 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 72.5 % 72.1 % 65.2 % 0.4 6.9 Current accident year catastrophe losses 3.0 4.6 1.1 (1.6 ) 3.5 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (6.1 ) (11.7 ) (8.0 ) 5.6 (3.7 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (0.5 ) (0.1 ) (0.4 ) (0.4 ) 0.3 Total loss and loss expenses 68.9 64.9 57.9 4.0 7.0 Underwriting expenses 32.7 32.1 31.3 0.6 0.8 Combined ratio 101.6 % 97.0 % 89.2 % 4.6 7.8 Combined ratio 101.6 % 97.0 % 89.2 % 4.6 7.8 Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (3.6 ) (7.2 ) (7.3 ) 3.6 0.1 Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 105.2 % 104.2 % 96.5 % 1.0 7.7 Performance highlights for the commercial lines segment include: Premiums Pricing in our industry continues to be very competitive, and the poor economy is driving exposures lower. Our commercial lines net written premium decline for 2009 of 5.6 percent compared favorably with the estimated decline of 7.9 percent for the overall commercial lines industry, and our 2008 decline of 4.2 percent was slightly worse than the decline of 3.9 percent estimated for the industry. We believe our pace for new and renewal business in recent years is consistent with our agents practice of selecting and retaining accounts with manageable risk characteristics that support the lower prevailing prices. We also believe our favorable comparison to the industry for 2009 reflects the advantages we achieve through our field focus, which provides us with quality intelligence on local market conditions. Our earned premiums declined in 2009 and 2008, following the pattern of our written premiums, after rising slightly in 2007. Combined ratio Our commercial lines combined ratio rose to 101.6 percent in 2009 from 97.0 percent in 2008, following a very strong performance in 2007. Compared with 2008, results for 2009 reflected approximately half as much benefit from net favorable reserve development on prior accident years, accounting for 5.2 percentage points of the 4.6 percentage point combined ratio increase. The reduction in the net favorable reserve development on prior accident years occurred primarily for our commercial casualty and workers compensation lines of business. We continue to focus on sound underwriting fundamentals and obtaining adequate premiums for risks insured by each individual policy. The 2009 and 2008 ratios for current accident year before catastrophe losses largely reflect loss cost trends that are outpacing earned premium trends. Approximately $49 million, or 2.1 percentage points, of the rise in 2008 accident year loss and loss expenses was due to refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year. We discuss factors affecting the combined ratio and reserve development by line of business below. Our commercial lines statutory combined ratio was 101.8 percent in 2009 compared with 96.6 percent in 2008 and 89.2 percent in 2007. By comparison, the estimated industry commercial lines combined ratio was 101.2 percent in 2009, 107.2 percent in 2008 and 95.1 percent in 2007. Industry commercial lines estimates include mortgage and financial guaranty insurers, which saw a surge in claims following the historically high level of mortgage defaults in 2008, driving an unusually high industry combined ratio for 2008. Page 49 Commercial Lines Insurance Premiums Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 2,013 $ 2,156 $ 2,271 (6.6 ) (5.1 ) Agency new business written premiums 298 312 287 (4.6 ) 8.8 Other written premiums (130 ) (157 ) (145 ) 16.8 (8.3 ) Net written premiums 2,181 2,311 2,413 (5.6 ) (4.2 ) Unearned premium change 18 5 (2 ) 265.4 nm Earned premiums $ 2,199 $ 2,316 $ 2,411 (5.1 ) (3.9 ) As commercial lines markets have grown more competitive over the past several years, we have focused on leveraging our local relationships as well as the efforts of our agents and the teams that work with them. In this environment, we have been careful to maintain appropriate pricing discipline for both new and renewal business as we emphasize the importance of assessing account quality to our agencies and underwriters. We continue to make case by case decisions not to write or renew certain business. We continue to use rate credits to retain renewals of quality business and earn new business, but do so selectively in order to avoid commercial accounts that we believe have insufficient profit margins. Our experience remains that the larger the account, the higher the credits needed to write or retain the account, with variations by geographic region and class of business. Over the past three years, we continued to focus on seeking and maintaining adequate premium per risk exposure as well as pursuing non pricing means of enhancing longer term profitability. Non pricing means have included deliberate reviews of each risk, terms and conditions and limits of insurance. We continue to adhere to our underwriting guidelines, to re underwrite books of business with selected agencies and to update policy terms and conditions. In addition, we continue to leverage our strong local presence. Our field marketing representatives meet with local agencies to reaffirm agreements on the extent of the frontline renewal underwriting that agents will perform. Loss control, machinery and equipment and field claims representatives continue to conduct on site inspections. To assist underwriters, field claims representatives prepare full reports on their first hand observations of risk quality. Both renewal and new business reflected the effects of the economic slowdown in many regions, as exposures declined and policyholders became increasingly focused on reducing expenses. For commercial accounts, we typically calculate general liability premiums based on sales or payroll volume, while we calculate workers compensation premiums based on payroll volume. A change in sales or payroll volume generally indicates a change in demand for a businesss goods or services, as well as a change in its exposure to risk. Policyholders who experience sales or payroll volume changes due to economic factors may be purchasers of other types of insurance, such as commercial auto or commercial property, in addition to general liability and workers compensation. Premium levels for these other types of policies generally are not linked directly to sales or payroll volumes. In 2009, we estimated that policyholders with a contractor related ISO general liability code accounted for approximately 34 percent of our general liability premiums, which are included in the commercial casualty line of business, and that policyholders with a contractor related National Council on Compensation Insurance Inc. (NCCI) workers compensation code accounted for approximately 46 percent of our workers compensation premiums. The market seeking to insure contractors has been more adversely affected by the economic slowdown than some other markets. The decline in 2009 agency renewal written premiums was largely driven by pricing and exposure declines while policy retention rates declined slightly. For renewal business, our headquarters underwriters talk regularly with agents. Our field teams are available to assist headquarters underwriters by conducting inspections and holding renewal review meetings with agency staff. These activities can help verify that a commercial account retains the characteristics that caused us to write the business initially. We measure average changes in commercial lines renewal pricing as the rate of change in renewal premium for the new policy period compared with the premium for the expiring policy period, assuming no change in the level of insured exposures or policy coverage between those periods for respective policies. For policies renewed during 2009, the typical pricing decline on average was in the low single digit range. For larger accounts we typically experienced more significant premium declines and for smaller accounts we sometimes saw little if any premium change at renewal. The 2009 average represented an improvement from the mid single digit range average pricing decline experienced in 2008. In addition to pricing pressures, premiums confirmed by audits of policyholder sales and payrolls declined significantly in 2009. Written and earned premiums from audits decreased $38 million and $52 million, respectively, for the year 2009 compared with 2008. For new business, our field associates are frequently in our agents offices helping to judge the quality of each account, emphasizing the Cincinnati value proposition, calling on sales prospects with those agents, carefully evaluating risk exposure and providing their best quotes. In 2009, new business premium growth largely was driven by agencies appointed in recent years, which includes Texas agents appointed since late 2008 when we entered that state. Texas agencies generated new business growth of $11 million during Page 50 2009 while other agencies appointed during 2008 and 2009 contributed $23 million of our new commercial lines business. During 2009 we wrote fewer policies with annual premiums above $100,000, reflecting significant competition for larger accounts as many carriers continued to protect their renewal portfolio of business during the soft pricing environment. Some of our 2009 new business came from accounts that were not new to the agent. We believe these seasoned accounts tend to be priced more accurately than business that is less familiar to our agent because it was recently obtained from a competing agent. As we appoint new agencies who choose to move accounts to us, we report these accounts as new business to us. In 2009, other written premiums had less of a downward impact on commercial lines net written premiums than in 2008, primarily due to a lower overall cost for reinsurance and a smaller adjustment for estimated premiums of policies in effect but not yet processed. The adjustment for estimated premiums had an immaterial effect on earned premiums. Higher ceded reinsurance costs were the primary driver of the larger negative effect in 2008, including $5 million for ceded premium to reinstate coverage for our catastrophe reinsurance treaty. Commercial Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 1,662 $ 1,644 $ 1,467 75.5 % 71.0 % 60.8 % as of December 31, 2008 1,777 1,493 76.7 61.9 as of December 31, 2007 1,599 66.3 The trend for our commercial lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years reflected normal loss cost inflation as well as softer pricing that began in 2005 and continued through 2009, as discussed above. Catastrophe losses were volatile over the three year period as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 46. Catastrophe losses added 3.0, 4.6 and 1.1 percentage points to the commercial lines accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. Commercial lines reserve development for prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2009, although it was less than in 2008, as discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 75. Accident years 2008 and 2007 for the commercial lines segment have developed favorably, as indicated in the table above. Trends for commercial lines loss and loss expenses and the related ratios are further analyzed in Commercial Lines of Business Analysis, Pages 52 through 57. Commercial Lines Insurance Losses by Size Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $ 52 $ 41 $ 4 26.5 835.3 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 130 153 201 (14.7 ) (24.3 ) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 164 184 155 (10.8 ) 18.8 Case reserve development above $250,000 245 229 201 7.1 13.9 Total large losses incurred 591 607 561 (2.5 ) 8.0 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 565 547 502 3.4 8.9 Catastrophe losses 54 103 16 (47.1 ) 560.2 Total losses incurred $ 1,210 $ 1,257 $ 1,079 (3.6 ) 16.4 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change New losses greater than $4,000,000 2.4 % 1.8 % 0.2 % 0.6 1.6 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 5.9 6.6 8.3 (0.7 ) (1.7 ) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 7.5 8.0 6.4 (0.5 ) 1.6 Case reserve development above $250,000 11.2 9.9 8.4 1.3 1.5 Total large loss ratio 27.0 26.3 23.3 0.7 3.0 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 25.7 23.4 20.8 2.3 2.6 Catastrophe losses 2.5 4.5 0.7 (2.0 ) 3.8 Total loss ratio 55.2 % 54.2 % 44.8 % 1.0 9.4 The 2009 decline of $16 million or 2.5 percent in the loss and loss expenses from new losses and case reserve increases greater than $250,000, net of reinsurance, was more than offset by a larger decline in commercial lines earned premiums, causing an increase in the corresponding ratio. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of loss experience for larger policies is greater than that of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor that in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs. In 2007, our retention for our property and casualty working treaties was $4 million. Page 51 In 2008, we raised the casualty treaty retention to $5 million and raised it to $6 million effective January 1, 2009, when we also raised the property treaty retention to $5 million. Commercial Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 392 $ 413 $ 454 (5.2 ) (8.9 ) Underwriting expenses 310 314 287 (1.1 ) 9.5 Policyholder dividends 17 15 15 16.2 (3.5 ) Total underwriting expenses $ 719 $ 742 $ 756 (3.1 ) (1.8 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Commission expenses 17.8 % 17.8 % 18.8 % 0.0 (1.0 ) Underwriting expenses 14.1 13.7 11.9 0.4 1.8 Policyholder dividends 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.2 0.0 Total underwriting expense ratio 32.7 % 32.1 % 31.3 % 0.6 0.8 Commercial lines commission expenses as a percent of earned premium remained stable during 2009. The decrease in the commission expenses ratio in 2008 reflected a lower level of our profit sharing, or contingent commissions, which are primarily based on the profitability of an agencys aggregate property casualty book of Cincinnati business. In 2009, non commission underwriting expenses declined slightly, but to a lesser extent than earned premiums, causing the non commission underwriting expense ratio component of the underwriting expense ratio to rise. In 2008, non commission underwriting expenses rose on declining earned premiums, which also led to unfavorable deferred acquisition expense comparisons. Further, in 2008, the salary cost contribution rose by approximately 0.8 percentage points and the change in our pension plan contributed 0.5 percentage points to the ratio. Refinements in the allocation of expenses between our commercial lines and personal lines segments also contributed to minor variations in the non commission underwriting expenses. Commercial Lines Insurance Outlook Industrywide commercial lines written premiums are projected to decline approximately 5.6 percent in 2010 with the industry combined ratio estimated at 103.7 percent. As discussed in Item 1, Commercial Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 12, over the past several years, renewal and new business pricing has come under steadily increasing pressure, reinforcing the need for more flexibility and careful risk selection. Price competition remains intense and shows no signs of abating in the near term. We intend to continue marketing our products to a broad range of business classes, pricing our products appropriately and taking a package approach. We intend to maintain our underwriting selectivity and carefully manage our rate levels as well as our programs that seek to accurately match exposures with appropriate premiums. We will continue to evaluate each risk individually and to make decisions about rates, the use of three year commercial policies and other policy conditions on a case by case basis, even in lines and classes of business that are under competitive pressure. Nonetheless, we expect commercial lines profitability to remain under pressure in 2010, in part due to small average pricing declines on policies renewed during 2009 for which premiums will be earned during 2010. In Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 8, we discuss the initiatives we are implementing to achieve our corporate performance objectives. We discuss factors influencing future results of our property casualty insurance operations in the Executive Summary, Page 34. Commercial Lines of Business Analysis Approximately 95 percent of our commercial lines premiums relate to accounts with coverages from more than one of our business lines. As a result, we believe that the commercial lines segment is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for each line. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of incurred loss and loss expenses and corresponding ratios over the most recent three accident years. Accident year data classifies losses according to the year in which the corresponding loss events occur, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, recorded or paid. For 2009, the only commercial line of business that exhibited significant adverse profitability trends was workers compensation. Most of the profit deterioration in workers compensation was a result of prior accident year reserve development. As discussed below, actions we are taking to improve pricing and reduce loss costs are expected to benefit future profitability trends. Page 52 Commercial Casualty Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Commercial casualty: Written premiums $ 704 $ 764 $ 830 (7.9 ) (7.9 ) Earned premiums 712 763 827 (6.7 ) (7.8 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 542 576 572 (5.9 ) 0.7 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (154 ) (257 ) (149 ) 40.3 (72.3 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 388 $ 319 $ 423 22.0 (24.7 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 76.2 % 75.4 % 69.2 % 0.8 6.2 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (21.6 ) (33.7 ) (18.1 ) 12.1 (15.6 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 54.6 % 41.7 % 51.1 % 12.9 (9.4 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $542 $ 488 $ 443 76.2 % 63.9 % 53.5 % as of December 31, 2008 576 479 75.4 57.9 as of December 31, 2007 572 69.2 Commercial casualty is our largest business line. The decline in commercial casualty premiums reflected the intensifying competition in the casualty market. In addition, premiums for this business line reflect economic trends, including changes in underlying exposures, particularly for general liability coverages where the premium amount is heavily influenced by economically driven measures of risk exposure such as sales volume. The calendar year total loss and loss expense ratio increased during 2009 largely because of a lower level, compared with 2008, of favorable development on prior accident year reserves. Factors contributing to the 2008 higher level of favorable prior accident year reserve development included refinements to our IBNR reserve allocation, quarter to quarter reductions in actuarial reserve estimates, the introduction of an additional umbrella liability reserving model, sooner than expected moderation in the inflation trend of allocated loss expenses and unusual deviations from predictions of reserving methods and models. The 2009 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses deteriorated slightly, reflecting lower pricing per exposure and normal loss cost inflation. Commercial Property Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Commercial property: Written premiums $ 485 $ 481 $ 499 0.7 (3.6 ) Earned premiums 485 487 497 (0.5 ) (2.0 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 257 282 240 (8.6 ) 17.3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 42 81 20 (47.9 ) 304.2 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (5 ) (7 ) (10 ) 29.0 29.1 Prior accident year catastrophe losses (11 ) (3 ) (9 ) (336.3 ) 73.4 Total loss and loss expenses $ 283 $ 353 $ 241 (19.7 ) 46.7 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 53.1 % 57.7 % 48.3 % (4.6 ) 9.4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 8.8 16.6 4.0 (7.8 ) 12.6 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (1.1 ) (1.3 ) (2.0 ) 0.2 0.7 Prior accident year catastrophe losses (2.2 ) (0.4 ) (1.8 ) (1.8 ) 1.4 Total loss and loss expense ratio 58.6 % 72.6 % 48.5 % (14.0 ) 24.1 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $299 $ 348 $ 259 61.9 % 71.5 % 52.2 % as of December 31, 2008 363 260 74.3 52.3 as of December 31, 2007 260 52.3 Commercial property is our second largest business line. Net written premiums for 2009 increased slightly, largely due to more reinsurance ceded premium in 2008, including $4 million to reinstate coverage for our catastrophe reinsurance treaty. The overall declining trend in premium since 2007 also reflected pricing declines. Page 53 The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio improved compared with 2008, primarily due to lower catastrophe losses. The 2008 ratio was also adversely affected by 3.4 percentage points for new losses and case reserve increases greater than $250,000. Development on prior period reserves was relatively stable for all periods shown. The 2009 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses also improved compared with 2008. A portion of the higher 2008 ratio was due to a higher loss expense allocation because of the level of non catastrophe weather related losses. In addition, the refinement in the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year accounted for approximately 2 percentage points of the difference between the 2007 and 2008 ratios. Commercial Auto Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Commercial auto: Written premiums $ 388 $ 402 $ 429 (3.4 ) (6.2 ) Earned premiums 394 411 440 (4.1 ) (6.7 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 273 303 303 (9.9 ) (0.5 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 3 2 1 12.9 240.5 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (20 ) (8 ) (25 ) (146.2 ) 67.6 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 (1 ) nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 256 $ 297 $ 278 (13.9 ) 6.3 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 69.2 % 73.7 % 69.3 % (4.5 ) 4.4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.7 0.6 0.0 0.1 0.6 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (5.0 ) (2.0 ) (5.8 ) (3.0 ) 3.8 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 64.9 % 72.3 % 63.5 % (7.4 ) 8.8 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 276 $ 292 $ 293 69.9 % 71.0 % 66.7 % as of December 31, 2008 305 298 74.3 67.7 as of December 31, 2007 304 69.3 The decline in commercial auto premiums over the three year period reflected the downward pressure exerted by the market on the pricing of commercial accounts. Commercial auto is one of the business lines that we renew and price annually, so market trends may be reflected here more quickly than in other lines. Commercial auto also experiences pricing pressure because it often represents the largest portion of insurance costs for many commercial policyholders. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio improved during 2009 due in part to a higher amount of favorable development on prior accident year reserves. The 2009 accident year loss and loss expense ratio also improved, reflecting more favorable loss experience due in part to the general slump in U.S. economic activity and also reflecting volatility in the number of commercial auto losses greater than $1 million. Workers Compensation Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Workers compensation: Written premiums $ 323 $ 382 $ 378 (15.6 ) 1.1 Earned premiums 326 375 373 (13.0 ) 0.6 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 355 342 326 4.0 4.9 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 48 (3 ) (10 ) nm 75.0 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 403 $ 339 $ 316 18.9 7.5 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 108.8 % 91.1 % 87.3 % 17.7 3.8 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 14.7 (0.7 ) (2.7 ) 15.4 2.0 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 123.5 % 90.4 % 84.6 % 33.1 5.8 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 355 $ 331 $ 310 108.8 % 88.1 % 83.0 % as of December 31, 2008 342 305 91.1 81.7 as of December 31, 2007 326 87.3 Page 54 Workers compensation premiums declined sharply in 2009, primarily due to lower exposures from the weak economy and more selective underwriting and the non renewal of a number of policies in our worst pricing tier. In addition, premiums resulting from audits of policyholder payroll levels declined $28 million, reflecting the weak economy. Since we pay a lower commission rate on workers compensation business, this line has a higher calendar year loss and loss expense breakeven point than our other commercial business lines. Nonetheless, the ratio was at an unprofitable level in each of the last three years, and management continues to work to improve financial performance for this line. During 2009, we began using a predictive modeling tool to improve risk selection and pricing capabilities. Predictive modeling increases pricing precision so that our agents can better compete for the most desirable workers compensation business. We also added to our staff of loss control field representatives, premium audit field representatives and field claims representatives specializing in workers compensation risks. In early 2010, we implemented direct reporting of workers compensation claims, allowing us to quickly obtain detailed information to promptly assign the appropriate level of claims handling expertise for each case. Obtaining more information sooner for specific claims allows for medical care appropriate to the nature of each injury, benefiting injured workers, employers and agents while ultimately lowering overall loss costs. The workers compensation business line includes our longest tail exposures, making initial estimates of accident year loss and loss expenses incurred more uncertain. Due to the lengthy payout period of workers compensation claims, small shifts in medical cost inflation and payout periods could have a significant effect on our potential future liability compared with our current projections. Our workers compensation reserve analyses completed during the first half of 2009 indicated that loss cost inflation was higher than previously estimated, leading us to make more conservative assumptions about future loss cost inflation when estimating loss reserves, thereby significantly increasing losses incurred. Prior analyses attributed a larger share of the rise in claim payments for recent accident years to exposure growth rather than loss cost inflation. However, declining claim frequencies reflected in reserving data as of December 31, 2008, indicated that exposure growth was less of a source of the rise in claim payments for recent accident years than was loss cost inflation. The higher estimates of loss cost inflation derived from analyses during 2009 affected reserves estimated for many prior accident years. Accident years 2006 through 2008 had net favorable development of $4 million, largely due to favorable development on the loss expense component of the reserves. Accident years 2000 through 2005 had net unfavorable development of $37 million, and accident years prior to 2000 had net unfavorable development of $15 million. Workers compensation prior accident year reserve development for full year 2009 was unfavorable by $48 million for all prior accident years in total compared with favorable development of $2 million for 2008. As discussed in Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, including the table on Page 42 showing ranges for estimated reserves, the significant strengthening of reserves during 2009 moved the carried reserves for workers compensation into the upper half of the range. Specialty Packages Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Specialty packages: Written premiums $ 148 $ 145 $ 146 1.7 (0.5 ) Earned premiums 147 144 146 2.4 (1.3 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 84 87 80 (4.1 ) 9.2 Current accident year catastrophe losses 21 23 6 (6.7 ) 287.4 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 1 (3 ) 0 nm nm Prior accident year catastrophe losses (1 ) (1 ) 0 (85.0 ) nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 105 $ 106 $ 86 (1.6 ) 22.0 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 56.9 % 60.8 % 54.8 % (3.9 ) 6.0 Current accident year catastrophe losses 14.2 15.6 4.0 (1.4 ) 11.6 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 0.3 (2.5 ) 0.5 2.8 (3.0 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (0.8 ) (0.4 ) 0.1 (0.4 ) (0.5 ) Total loss and loss expense ratio 70.6 % 73.5 % 59.4 % (2.9 ) 14.1 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 105 $ 106 $ 89 71.1 % 73.9 % 61.0 % as of December 31, 2008 110 87 76.4 59.9 as of December 31, 2007 86 58.8 Specialty packages premiums were relatively flat over the three year period. Our commercial lines policy processing system for businessowners policies, which are included in this business line, already had several of the technology features we recently introduced to our agents with our new commercial lines policy processing system, thereby meeting many of the ease of use requirements of our agencies. Page 55 The calendar year and accident year loss and loss expense ratios reflected the volatility in catastrophe losses over the three year period. In addition, pricing reductions and normal loss cost inflation continued to put upward pressure on the ratios. Surety and Executive Risk Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Surety and executive risk: Written premiums $ 101 $ 107 $ 102 (5.1 ) 4.0 Earned premiums 104 107 100 (3.5 ) 7.7 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 76 71 41 6.8 75.2 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (3 ) 7 1 nm 494.7 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 73 $ 78 $ 42 (6.4 ) 87.0 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 73.2 % 66.1 % 40.6 % 7.1 25.5 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (2.7 ) 6.5 1.2 (9.2 ) 5.3 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 70.5 % 72.6 % 41.8 % (2.1 ) 30.8 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 76 $ 69 $ 63 73.2 % 64.5 % 63.6 % as of December 31, 2008 71 54 66.1 54.3 as of December 31, 2007 41 40.6 Surety and executive risk premiums declined in 2009 as we non renewed many policies in an effort to improve the quality of the financial institution portion of this book of business. Prior to the credit crisis in 2008, this line of business had been growing in response to our marketing of these products. Director and officer liability coverage accounted for 60.3 percent of surety and executive risk premiums in 2009 compared with 58.9 percent in 2008 and 62.3 percent in 2007. We have actively managed the potentially high risk of writing director and officer liability by: Marketing primarily to nonprofit organizations, which accounted for approximately 70 percent of the director and officer liability policies we wrote in 2009. Limiting the number of for profit policies. At year end 2009, our in force director and officer liability policies provided coverage to 14 non financial publicly traded companies, including two Fortune 1000 companies. We also provided this coverage to approximately 500 banks, savings and loans and other financial institutions. o The majority of these financial institution policyholders are smaller community banks, and we believe they have no unusual exposure to credit market concerns, including subprime mortgages. Based on new policy data or information from the most recent policy renewal, only 14 of our bank and savings and loan policyholders have assets greater than $2 billion, only 22 have assets between $1 billion and $2 billion; and 41 have assets between $500 million and $1 billion. Writing on a claims made basis, which normally restricts coverage to losses reported during the policy term. Providing limits no higher than $10 million with facultative or treaty reinsurance in place in 2010 to cover losses greater than $6 million. The calendar year and current accident year loss and loss expense ratios rose substantially in 2008 and remained high in 2009, driven by director and officer new losses and case reserve increases greater than $250,000. During 2009, there were 37 new director and officer losses and case reserve increases, compared with 38 in 2008 and 20 in 2007. This added approximately $36 million to loss and loss expenses compared with $43 million in 2008 and $9 million in 2007. The higher level in both 2009 and 2008 was largely from claims related to prior lending practices at financial institutions. To address the potential risk inherent in the financial institutions book of our surety and executive risk business line moving forward, we continue to work with our agents to limit the number of new director and officer policies for financial institutions, in addition to using credit rating and other metrics to carefully re underwrite in force policies when they are considered for renewal. Page 56 Machinery and Equipment Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Machinery and equipment: Written premiums $ 32 $ 30 $ 29 7.5 3.5 Earned premiums 31 29 28 7.3 3.1 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 9 11 10 (19.9 ) 10.9 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (2 ) 1 (2 ) nm nm Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 7 $ 12 $ 8 (45.4 ) 57.7 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 26.9 % 36.1 % 33.6 % (9.2 ) 2.5 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.3 0.9 0.0 (0.6 ) 0.9 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (5.8 ) 5.5 (5.5 ) (11.3 ) 11.0 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.2 0.0 (0.3 ) 0.2 0.3 Total loss and loss expense ratio 21.6 % 42.5 % 27.8 % (20.9 ) 14.7 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 9 $ 10 $ 9 27.2 % 35.6 % 32.0 % as of December 31, 2008 11 10 37.0 34.2 as of December 31, 2007 10 33.6 Machinery and equipment premiums continued to rise in 2009. Because of the relatively small size of this business line, the calendar year and accident year loss and loss expense ratios can fluctuate substantially. Personal Lines Insurance Results Of Operations Overview Three Year Highlights Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 685 $ 689 $ 714 (0.6 ) (3.4 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 485 498 459 (2.4 ) 8.7 Current accident year catastrophe losses 106 99 20 6.9 396.4 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (45 ) (51 ) (30 ) 9.9 (67.6 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 5 1 (11 ) 325.7 nm Total loss and loss expenses 551 547 438 0.7 25.2 Underwriting expenses 215 224 233 (4.1 ) (3.9 ) Underwriting (loss) profit $ (81 ) $ (82 ) $ 43 1.9 nm Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 70.9 % 72.2 % 64.3 % (1.3 ) 7.9 Current accident year catastrophe losses 15.4 14.4 2.8 1.0 11.6 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (6.6 ) (7.3 ) (4.3 ) 0.7 (3.0 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.7 0.1 (1.5 ) 0.6 1.6 Total loss and loss expenses 80.4 79.4 61.3 1.0 18.1 Underwriting expenses 31.4 32.5 32.6 (1.1 ) (0.1 ) Combined ratio 111.8 % 111.9 % 93.9 % (0.1 ) 18.0 Combined ratio 111.8 % 111.9 % 93.9 % (0.1 ) 18.0 Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 9.5 7.2 (3.0 ) 2.3 10.2 Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 102.3 % 104.7 % 96.9 % (2.4 ) 7.8 Performance highlights for the personal lines segment include: Premiums Very strong competition in our personal lines markets continued in 2009 and we continued to adjust pricing in an effort to return to consistent profitability in our personal lines segment. Net written premiums grew slightly, driven by new business growth that included expansion into new states where we previously offered only commercial lines policies. Industry average written premium growth was estimated at negative 1.1 percent in 2009 and negative 0.7 percent in 2008 after being flat in 2007. Combined ratio The combined ratio improved slightly in 2009, reflecting in part improved pricing, following substantial deterioration in 2008. The level of catastrophe losses remained high in 2009, and the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio remained fairly steady, once refinements made to the IBNR reserve allocation in 2008, noted below, are taken into account. In 2008, the current accident Page 57 year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses also rose substantially, in part due to approximately $20 million, or 2.9 percentage points, from refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year. Our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 111.4 percent in 2009, 111.6 percent in 2008 and 94.7 percent in 2007. By comparison, the estimated industry personal lines combined ratio was 101.0 percent in 2009, 103.6 percent in 2008 and 96.1 percent in 2007. Our concentration of business in areas hard hit by catastrophe events contributed to recent results that differed from the overall industry, an issue we are addressing in part through geographic expansion as noted below. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 16.1 percentage points in 2009, 14.5 percent points in 2008 and 1.3 percentage points in 2007, compared to an estimated 4.5, 7.5, and 2.1 percentage points, respectively, for the industry. Personal Lines Insurance Premiums Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 642 $ 672 $ 690 (4.5 ) (2.5 ) Agency new business written premiums 75 42 38 80.6 9.5 Other written premiums (26 ) (29 ) (24 ) 11.1 (22.5 ) Net written premiums 691 685 704 0.9 (2.7 ) Unearned premium change (6 ) 4 10 nm (53.2 ) Earned premiums $ 685 $ 689 $ 714 (0.6 ) (3.4 ) Personal lines insurance is a strategic component of our overall relationship with many of our agencies and an important component of our agencies relationships with their clients. We believe agents recommend Cincinnati personal insurance products for their value oriented clients who seek to balance quality and price and who are attracted by our superior claims service and the benefits of our package approach. Our personal lines policy retention and new business levels have remained at higher levels following introduction in recent years of a limited program of policy credits for personal auto and homeowner pricing in most of the states in which we operate. The program provided credits for eligible new and renewal policyholders identified as above average quality risks. Additional pricing and credit changes were implemented in early 2009, further improving pricing for the best accounts, which should help us retain and attract even more of our agents preferred business. Our personal lines new business written by our agencies rose significantly in 2009 as the number of agency locations writing our personal lines rose by 133, or 14.4 percent, following an increase of 136 agency locations in 2008. Since early 2008, we have worked to improve our geographic diversification by expanding our personal lines operation to several states less prone to catastrophes. There are seven states where we began writing business or significantly expanded our personal lines product offerings and automation capabilities beginning in 2008, and they accounted for $13 million of our 2009 increase in our personal lines new business written premiums. Those seven states are Arizona, Idaho, Maryland, Montana, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Utah. For the three year period, other written premiums, primarily premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and that lower our net written premiums, remained relatively stable. Additional premiums ceded to reinsurers to reinstate our catastrophe reinsurance treaty contributed $9 million to other written premiums in 2008. Personal Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Catastrophe losses were unusually high during 2009 and 2008, and also are inherently volatile, as discussed above and in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 46. Development on loss and loss expense reserves for prior accident years continued to trend favorably in 2009 as discussed in Personal Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 77. The increase in the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses since 2007 reflects the pricing factors discussed above, normal loss cost inflation and higher non catastrophe weather related losses. During 2009, one unusually large fire loss for our homeowner line of business contributed $5 million to personal lines segment losses. In addition, refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year increased the 2008 ratio. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 591 $ 575 $ 468 86.3 % 83.4 % 65.6 % as of December 31, 2008 597 480 86.6 67.3 as of December 31, 2007 478 67.0 The effect on the loss and loss expense ratio from new losses and case reserve increases greater than $250,000, net of reinsurance, was higher in 2009 than it was in 2008. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. Page 58 Personal Lines Insurance Losses by Size Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $ 5 $ 5 $ 0 0.0 nm New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 17 16 28 8.4 (42.2 ) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 48 44 44 6.7 1.3 Case reserve development above $250,000 19 16 19 24.7 (20.1 ) Total large losses incurred 89 81 91 10.0 (11.0 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 281 295 279 (4.4 ) 5.6 Catastrophe losses 111 100 10 10.4 958.8 Total losses incurred $ 481 $ 476 $ 380 1.1 25.4 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change New losses greater than $4,000,000 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.0 % 0.0 0.7 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 2.5 2.3 3.9 0.2 (1.6 ) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 6.9 6.4 6.2 0.5 0.2 Case reserve development above $250,000 2.8 2.3 2.7 0.5 (0.4 ) Total large losses incurred 12.9 11.7 12.8 1.2 (1.1 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 41.1 42.8 39.1 (1.7 ) 3.7 Catastrophe losses 16.2 14.5 1.3 1.7 13.2 Total loss ratio 70.2 % 69.0 % 53.2 % 1.2 15.8 Personal Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 136 $ 136 $ 145 (0.2 ) (6.4 ) Underwriting expenses 79 88 88 (10.1 ) 0.4 Total underwriting expenses $ 215 $ 224 $ 233 (4.1 ) (3.9 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Commission expenses 19.8 % 19.7 % 20.3 % 0.1 (0.6 ) Underwriting expenses 11.6 12.8 12.3 (1.2 ) 0.5 Total underwriting expense ratio 31.4 % 32.5 % 32.6 % (1.1 ) (0.1 ) Personal lines commission expense as a percent of earned premium for 2009 was essentially flat compared with 2008. The decrease in the commission expenses ratio in 2008 reflected a lower level of our profit sharing, or contingent commissions, which are primarily based on the profitability of an agencys aggregate property casualty book of Cincinnati business. Non commission underwriting expenses declined in 2009 primarily due to lower depreciation expense on previously capitalized software expenditures. In 2008 there was an unusual expense of $3 million due to a pension charge. Refinements in the allocation of expenses between our commercial lines and personal lines segments also contributed to minor variations between year to year comparisons in the non commission underwriting expenses. Personal Lines Insurance Outlook A.M. Best estimates industrywide personal lines written premiums may rise approximately 1.8 percent in 2010, with the combined ratio estimated at 100.3 percent. With improvement in our new business levels and by maintaining our strong policy retention rate along with rate increases in the homeowner line effected in late 2009, we expect our growth rate to be slightly higher than the industry target for 2010. In Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 8, we discuss the initiatives we are implementing to address the unsatisfactory performance of our personal lines segment, in particular the homeowner line of business. We also describe steps that will enhance our response to the changing marketplace. We are aware that our personal lines pricing and loss activity are at levels that could put achievement of our corporate financial objectives at risk if those trends continue. We discuss our overall outlook for our property casualty insurance operations in the Executive Summary, Page 34. Personal Lines of Business Analysis We prefer to write personal lines coverages within accounts that include both auto and homeowner coverages as well as coverages from the other personal business line. As a result, we believe that the personal lines segment is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for each line. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of incurred loss and loss expenses and corresponding ratios over the most recent three accident years. Accident year data classifies losses according to the year in which the corresponding loss events occur, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, recorded or paid. For 2009, the personal line of business that exhibited the most significant adverse profitability trend was homeowner. As discussed above, we continue to take action to improve pricing per risk and overall rates, which is expected to improve future profitability trends. In addition, we anticipate that the unusually high Page 59 catastrophe loss level of 2009 may return nearer to the historical average, with the long term future catastrophe loss ratio improving due to our gradual geographic diversification into states less prone to catastrophe losses. Personal Auto Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Personal auto: Written premiums $ 324 $ 320 $ 332 1.3 (3.7 ) Earned premiums 319 325 342 (1.7 ) (5.0 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 224 226 225 (0.6 ) 0.3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 3 4 1 (23.7 ) 266.3 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (6 ) (12 ) 5 42.7 nm Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 (3 ) nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 221 $ 218 $ 228 0.9 (4.4 ) Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 70.2 % 69.4 % 65.8 % 0.8 3.6 Current accident year catastrophe losses 1.0 1.2 0.3 (0.2 ) 0.9 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (2.0 ) (3.4 ) 1.6 1.4 (5.0 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses (0.2 ) 0.0 (0.9 ) (0.2 ) 0.9 Total loss and loss expense ratio 69.0 % 67.2 % 66.8 % 1.8 0.4 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 227 $ 227 $ 234 71.2 % 69.8 % 68.3 % as of December 31, 2008 230 237 70.6 69.2 as of December 31, 2007 226 66.1 Net written premiums for personal auto increased slightly in 2009 as strong new business growth offset pricing decreases taken in early 2009 and business lost due to normal attrition. We continue to monitor and modify selected rates and credits to address our competitive position. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio rose slightly over the three year period. In recent years, we have seen generally higher costs for liability claims, including severe injuries, and we have sought rate increases for liability coverages that partially offset price decreases for physical damage coverages. Price reductions, in part reflecting our trend toward a higher quality book of business, combined with normal loss cost inflation as the primary drivers in the rise in the accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses since 2007. The 2008 accident year loss and loss expense ratio also reflected refinements made to our IBNR reserve allocation by accident year that contributed approximately 4 percentage points. Homeowner Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Homeowner: Written premiums $ 275 $ 277 $ 284 (0.6 ) (2.5 ) Earned premiums 276 277 285 (0.4 ) (2.6 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 202 194 161 4.1 20.5 Current accident year catastrophe losses 96 89 17 7.8 416.6 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (5 ) (9 ) (3 ) 49.7 (235.4 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 5 1 (7 ) 278.7 nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 298 $ 275 $ 168 8.3 63.7 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 73.0 % 69.9 % 56.5 % 3.1 13.4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 34.7 32.1 6.0 2.6 26.1 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (1.6 ) (3.2 ) (1.0 ) 1.6 (2.2 ) Prior accident year catastrophe losses 1.7 0.4 (2.5 ) 1.3 2.9 Total loss and loss expense ratio 107.8 % 99.2 % 59.0 % 8.6 40.2 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 298 $ 281 $ 180 107.7 % 101.5 % 63.3 % as of December 31, 2008 283 177 102.0 62.3 as of December 31, 2007 178 62.5 Premiums for 2009 were relatively flat compared with 2008. Both years were lower than 2007 and reflected improved new business levels offset by higher reinsurance premiums in both years. Premiums ceded for reinsurance, which reduce premium revenue, were $22 million in 2009; $26 million in 2008, Page 60 including a reinstatement premium of $8 million; and $23 million in 2007. The pricing changes of the past several years have had a positive effect on policyholder retention and new business activity. We continue to monitor and modify selected rates and credits to address our competitive position and to achieve long term profitability. Implementation of predictive modeling has provided additional pricing points to target profitability. Various rate changes were implemented beginning in October 2009, including rate increases that respond in part to weather related loss trends as well as other trends in loss costs. The increases for the homeowner line of business averaged approximately 6 percent in affected states, although some individual policies will see renewal increases in the double digit range. These actions, in addition to geographic diversification, are important steps we are taking to improve homeowner results. The calendar year loss and loss expense ratio over the past three years fluctuated with catastrophe losses, non catastrophe weather related losses and other large losses. Catastrophe losses have been above our expected range in recent years, averaging 34.5 percent of homeowner earned premium from 2008 to 2009, compared with the most recent 10 year average of 21.9 percent. The current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses remained high in 2009, in part due to the same non catastrophe weather related losses and other large losses that affected the calendar year result. Non catastrophe weather related losses contributed about 14.0 percentage points to the 2009 ratio and about 5 percentage points to the 2008 ratio. In addition, the refinements made to our IBNR reserve allocation by accident year and a lower estimate of salvage and subrogation reserves raised the 2008 ratio by about 2 percentage points. Other Personal Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Other personal: Written premiums $ 92 $ 88 $ 88 4.7 0.6 Earned premiums 90 87 87 3.1 0.1 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 60 79 72 (23.4 ) 8.6 Current accident year catastrophe losses 7 6 2 15.0 271.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (34 ) (30 ) (33 ) (14.4 ) 8.4 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0 (1 ) 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 33 $ 54 $ 41 (38.8 ) 32.5 Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Pt. Change Pt. Change Current accident year before catastrophe losses 66.9 % 89.9 % 82.9 % (23.0 ) 7.0 Current accident year catastrophe losses 7.7 6.9 1.9 0.8 5.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (38.3 ) (34.4 ) (37.6 ) (3.9 ) 3.2 Prior accident year catastrophe losses 0.6 (0.2 ) (0.2 ) 0.8 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 36.9 % 62.2 % 47.0 % (25.3 ) 15.2 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2009 2008 2007 2009 2008 2007 as of December 31, 2009 $ 67 $ 67 $ 54 74.6 % 76.8 % 62.2 % as of December 31, 2008 85 66 96.8 76.1 as of December 31, 2007 74 84.8 Other personal premiums increased in 2009 reflecting the growth in our personal auto and homeowner lines before the effects of reinsurance. Most of our other personal coverages are endorsed to homeowner or auto policies. The calendar year and accident year loss and loss expense ratio for other personal improved in 2009. Reserve development on prior accident years can fluctuate significantly for this business line because personal umbrella liability is a major component of other personal losses. Page 61 Life Insurance Results Of Operations Overview Three Year Highlights Performance highlights for the life insurance segment include: Revenues Driven by higher term life insurance premiums, earned premiums have grown over the past three years. Gross in force policy face amounts increased to $69.815 billion at year end 2009 from $65.888 billion at year end 2008 and $61.875 billion at year end 2007. Profitability The life insurance segment frequently reports only a small profit or loss because most of its investment income is included in investment segment results. We include only investment income credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations) in life insurance segment results. The segment reported a $2 million profit in 2009. Life Insurance Results Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 143 $ 126 $ 125 13.0 0.8 Separate account investment management fees 2 4 nm (56.0 ) Total revenues 143 128 129 11.5 (1.1 ) Contract holders benefits incurred 160 142 133 13.3 6.1 Investment interest credited to contract holders (69 ) (63 ) (59 ) 10.0 (5.2 ) Operating expenses incurred 50 45 52 9.1 (12.8 ) Total benefits and expenses 141 124 126 13.5 (1.2 ) Life insurance segment profit $ 2 $ 4 $ 3 (52.7 ) 0.9 Life Insurance Growth We market term, whole and universal life products, fixed annuities and disability income products. In addition, we offer term, whole and universal life and disability insurance to employees at their worksite. These products provide our property casualty agency force with excellent cross serving opportunities for both commercial and personal accounts. Earned premiums increased in 2009 largely because of growth in our term and universal life insurance business. Earned premiums from term insurance grew $10 million, or 13.4 percent, and earned premiums from universal life insurance grew $4 million, or 17.8 percent. Separate account investment management fee income contributed less than $1 million to total revenue in 2009, compared with a $2 million contribution in 2008 and $4 million in 2007. These fees declined primarily because of a net realized capital loss sharing agreement between the separate account and the general account. Over the past several years, we have worked to maintain a portfolio of simple, yet competitive products, primarily under the LifeHorizons banner. Our product development efforts emphasize death benefit protection and guarantees. Distribution expansion within our property casualty insurance agencies remains a high priority. In the past several years, we have added life field marketing representatives for the western, southeastern and northeastern states. Our 32 life field marketing representatives work in partnership with our more than 100 property casualty field marketing representatives. Approximately 70 percent of our term and other life insurance product premiums were generated through our property casualty insurance agency relationships. Life Insurance Profitability Although we exclude most of our life insurance company investment income from investment segment results, we recognize that assets under management, capital appreciation and investment income are integral to evaluation of the success of the life insurance segment because of the long duration of life products. On a basis that includes investment income and realized gains or losses from life insurance related invested assets, the life insurance company reported a net profit of $22 million in 2009, compared with a net loss of $19 million in 2008 and a net profit of $65 million in 2007. The life insurance company portfolio had after tax realized investment losses of $13 million in 2009, including $15 million in other than temporary impairment charges, compared with after tax realized investment losses of $58 million in 2008, which included $66 million in other than temporary impairment charges. Realized investment losses were minimal in 2007, when we reported after tax realized investment gains of $26 million. Realized investment gains and losses are discussed under Investment Results of Operations, Page 64. Life segment expenses consist principally of: Contract holders (policyholders) benefits incurred related to traditional life and interest sensitive products accounted for 76.4 percent of 2009 total benefits and expenses compared with 75.7 percent in 2008 and 71.9 percent in 2007. Total benefits and expenses rose due to net death claims that increased but remained within our range of pricing expectations. Page 62 Operating expenses incurred, net of deferred acquisition costs, accounted for 23.6 percent of 2009 total benefits and expenses compared with 24.3 percent in 2008 and 28.1 percent in 2007. Operating expenses increased principally because of the level of commission expense associated with new term life insurance and fixed annuity policies, partially offset by deferred acquisition costs related to these products. Life segment profitability depends largely on premium levels, the adequacy of product pricing, underwriting skill and operating efficiencies. Life segment results include only investment interest credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). The remaining investment income is reported in the investment segment results. The life investment portfolio is managed to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and rates credited to policyholders. We consider the value of assets under management and investment income for the life investment portfolio as key performance indicators for the life insurance segment. We seek to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to benefits paid and reserve increases by consistently achieving better than average claims experience due to skilled underwriting. Commissions paid by the life insurance operation are on par with industry averages. During the past several years, we have invested in imaging and workflow technology and have significantly improved application processing. We have achieved process efficiencies while improving our service. These efficiencies have played a significant role in cost containment and in our ability to increase total premiums and policy count over the past 10 years with minimal headcount additions. Life Insurance Outlook Life insurer balance sheets strengthened nicely in 2009 after weathering a difficult 2008. Many companies increased prices or exited selected lines of business to preserve and enhance valuable capital. Our strong surplus position and straight forward portfolio of products allowed us to maintain our pricing and continue to offer the products and services upon which our agents have come to rely. This strategy led to strong growth in our life and annuity lines in 2009; we expect this trend will continue with respect to life sales but expect some moderation with respect to annuity sales in 2010. Our property casualty agencies remain the main distribution system for our life insurance segment, and we continue to emphasize securing an increasing share of the life insurance premium produced by these agencies. While other life insurers continue to expand nontraditional distribution channels such as direct sales, we intend to market through agencies affiliated with our property casualty insurance operations or independent life only agencies. In 2009 our property casualty agencies produced 70 percent and our life only agencies 30 percent of our life insurance premium. Term insurance continues to fit well with the sales goals of both our property casualty and life only agencies and remains our largest product line. We continue to introduce new term products with features our agents tell us are important. We will complete a comprehensive review of our term portfolio as well as introduce a new second to die universal life product in 2010. We continue to emphasize the cross serving opportunities of our worksite products for our property casualty agencies commercial accounts. As we seek to improve internal efficiencies, we are consolidating our legacy life insurance administrative systems into a single system. We anticipate this effort will be completed by mid 2011. We are also exploring online initiatives including intelligent electronic applications. We expect these projects to directly affect our ability to increase revenue and reduce expenses. Current statutory laws and regulations require life insurers to hold redundant reserves, particularly for preferred risk underwriting classes. While these redundant reserves have no direct effect on GAAP results, they depress statutory earnings and require a large commitment of capital. Redundant reserves are a significant challenge, not just for our life insurance operations, but for all writers of term insurance and universal life insurance with secondary guarantees. The National Association of Insurance Commissioners recognizes the problems caused by redundant reserves and is considering a principles based reserving system rather than the current formulaic one. While still capturing all material risks, a principles based system would allow a company to use its own experience, subject to credibility standards and appropriate margins for uncertainty. Also, under the proposed principles based system, the insurer would fully document and disclose all of its assumptions and methods to regulatory officials. Page 63 Investment Results Of Operations Overview Three Year Highlights The investment segment contributes investment income and realized gains and losses to results of operations. Investments provide our primary source of pretax and after tax profits. Investment income Pretax investment income declined 6.8 percent in 2009, primarily because of prior year dividend cuts in our common stock portfolio. Pretax investment income declined 11.6 percent in 2008, primarily because of dividend reductions by common and preferred holdings, including reductions during the year on positions subsequently sold or reduced. After tax investment income declined 11.3 percent in 2009 compared with 10.9 percent in 2008. This after tax decline has been primarily driven by the above mentioned dividend reductions. Realized investment gains and losses We reported realized investment gains in all three years, largely due to investment sales that were discretionary in timing and amount. Those sales were somewhat offset in 2009 and 2008, respectively, by $131 million and $510 million of other than temporary impairment charges for the write down of 50 securities in 2009 and 126 securities in 2008. Investment Results Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Total investment income, net of expenses, pre tax $ 501 $ 537 $ 608 (6.8 ) (11.6 ) Investment interest credited to contract holders (69 ) (63 ) (59 ) (10.0 ) (5.2 ) Realized investment gains and losses summary: Realized investment gains and losses 440 686 409 (35.8 ) 67.6 Change in fair value of securities with embedded derivatives 27 (38 ) (11 ) nm (243.8 ) Other than temporary impairment charges (131 ) (510 ) (16 ) 74.3 nm Total realized investment gains and losses 336 138 382 144.5 (64.0 ) Investment operations profit $ 768 $ 612 $ 931 25.5 (34.2 ) Investment Income The primary drivers of investment income were: Interest income rose again in 2009 as we increased our allocation of investments to fixed maturity securities. At year end 2009, the fixed maturities fair value was 104.5 percent of book value compared with 96.2 percent at year end 2008. Dividend income declined 50.8 percent in 2009 after declining 30.5 percent in 2008 and rising in 2007. During 2008, we reduced the size of our common stock portfolio by more than 50 percent in response to actual or anticipated dividend reductions as well as for the implementation of a risk management program. We are investing available cash flow in both fixed income and equity securities in a manner that we believe balances current income needs with longer term growth goals. Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Investment income: Interest $ 402 $ 326 $ 308 23.1 6.0 Dividends 100 204 294 (50.8 ) (30.5 ) Other 7 14 15 (53.3 ) (4.5 ) Investment expenses (8 ) (7 ) (9 ) (5.2 ) 12.6 Total investment income, net of expenses, pre tax 501 537 608 (6.8 ) (11.6 ) Income taxes (118 ) (106 ) (124 ) (11.5 ) 14.6 Total investment income, net of expenses, after tax $ 383 $ 431 $ 484 (11.3 ) (10.9 ) Effective tax rate 23.6 % 19.7 % 20.4 % Average invested assets $ 10,550 $ 11,193 $ 13,224 Average yield pre tax 4.7 % 4.8 % 4.6 % Average yield after tax 3.6 % 3.9 % 3.7 % Net Realized Investment Gains and Losses Net realized investment gains and losses are made up of realized investment gains and losses on the sale of securities, changes in the valuation of embedded derivatives within certain convertible securities and other than temporary impairment charges. These three areas are discussed below. Investment gains or losses are recognized upon the sales of investments or as otherwise required under GAAP. The timing of realized gains or losses from sales can have a material effect on results in any quarter. Page 64 However, such gains or losses usually have little, if any, effect on total shareholders equity because most equity and fixed maturity investments are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gain or loss included as a component of other comprehensive income. Realized Investment Gains and Losses As appropriate, we buy, hold or sell both fixed maturity and equity securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve our portfolio objectives. Pretax realized investment gains in the past three years largely were due to the sale of equity holdings. Net realized investment gains and losses totaling $440 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, reflected: $624 million in realized gains from equity sales including $161 million from the merger of Wyeth with Pfizer (NYSE: PFE); $133 million from the sale of ExxonMobil (NYSE: XOM); $100 million from the sale of Procter & Gamble; $67 million from the sale of Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ: FITB); $52 million from the sale of Piedmont Natural Gas (NYSE: PNY); and $111 million from the sale of various other equity holdings. $162 million in realized losses from the sales of various equity securities, including $52 million from the sale of General Electric Co. (NYSE: GE). These realized losses partially offset the $624 million in realized gains from equity sales. $15 million in net losses from fixed maturity sales and calls. $7 million in other net losses, including $6 million from a write off of an other invested asset. In 2008, most of the gain was due to sales of holdings of common and preferred stocks of financial services issuers, to reduce our historical weighting in financial sector securities. The majority of these holdings were sold following reductions or elimination of their cash dividends to shareholders. Because of our low cost basis, we were able to record gains on many of these sales despite the decline in overall stock market values during 2008. Realized gains were lower in 2007, although we chose to take gains from partial sales of selected holdings and to sell other holdings because of general credit concerns that began in the subprime mortgage market and spread to other areas in the homebuilding and related industries over the course of 2007. We generally purchase fixed income securities with the intention to hold until maturity. Securities that no longer meet our investment criteria, usually due to a change in credit fundamentals, are divested. Change in the Valuation of Securities with Embedded Derivatives We have a small portfolio of convertible preferred stocks and bonds, which have an embedded derivative component. In 2009 we recorded $27 million in fair value realized gains compared with $38 million and $11 million in fair value declines for 2008 and 2007. These changes in fair value were due to the application of ASC 815 15 25, which allows us to account for the entire hybrid financial instrument at fair value, with changes recognized in realized investment gains and losses. The changes in fair values are recognized in net income in the period they occur. See the discussion of Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 94, for details on the accounting for convertible security embedded options. Other than temporary Impairment Charges In 2009, we recorded $131 million in write downs of 50 securities that we deemed had experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value versus $510 million for 126 securities in 2008 and $16 million in 2007. The factors we consider when evaluating impairments are discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 42. The other than temporary impairment charges in 2009 approximated 1.2 percent of our total invested assets at year end compared with 5.7 percent for 2008. Other than temporary impairment charges also include unrealized losses of holdings that we intend to sell but have not yet completed a transaction. Page 65 Other than temporary impairment charges from the investment portfolio by the asset class we described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 18, are summarized below: Years ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2009 2008 2007 Taxable fixed maturities: Impairment amount $ (61 ) $ (162 ) $ (14 ) New book value $ 81 $ 187 $ 46 Percent to total owned 2 % 6 % 1 % Number of securities impaired 37 86 18 Percent to total owned 3 % 10 % 2 % Tax exempt fixed maturities: Impairment amount $ (1 ) $ (1 ) $ 0 New book value $ 3 $ 1 $ 0 Percent to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Number of securities impaired 2 1 0 Percent to total owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Common equities: Impairment amount $ (59 ) $ (214 ) $ (2 ) New book value $ 48 $ 87 $ 2 Percent to total owned 2 % 5 % 0 % Number of securities impaired 8 9 2 Percent to total owned 16 % 18 % 4 % Preferred equities: Impairment amount $ (10 ) $ (133 ) $ 0 New book value $ 5 $ 98 $ 0 Percent to total owned 7 % 52 % 0 % Number of securities impaired 3 30 0 Percent to total owned 12 % 86 % 0 % Total: Impairment amount $ (131 ) $ (510 ) $ (16 ) New book value $ 137 $ 373 $ 48 Percent to total owned 1 % 5 % 1 % Number of securities impaired 50 126 20 Percent to total owned 2 % 6 % 1 % Other than temporary impairment charges from the investment portfolio by industry are summarized as follows: Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Fixed maturities: Financial $ (30 ) $ (72 ) $ (4 ) Services cyclical (14 ) (17 ) (6 ) Real estate (11 ) (49 ) 0 Consumer cyclical (5 ) (14 ) (1 ) Other (2 ) (11 ) (3 ) Total fixed maturities (62 ) (163 ) (14 ) Common equities: Industrials (35 ) 0 0 Consumer discretionary (10 ) 0 0 Material (8 ) 0 0 Health (6 ) (30 ) 0 Financial 0 (184 ) 0 Real estate 0 0 (2 ) Total common equities (59 ) (214 ) (2 ) Preferred equities: Financial (10 ) (132 ) 0 Other 0 (1 ) 0 Total preferred equities (10 ) (133 ) 0 Total $ (131 ) $ (510 ) $ (16 ) The decrease in other than temporary impairment charges in 2009 was largely due to the improvement in values as asset markets rebounded. The increase in other than temporary impairment charges in 2008 was largely due to write downs of holdings of bonds and common and preferred stocks of financial services issuers, reflecting our historical weighting in this sector and the decline in overall stock market values during 2008. Page 66 Investments Outlook We continue to focus on portfolio strategies to balance near term income generation and long term book value growth. In 2010, we expect to continue to allocate a portion of cash available for investment to equity securities, taking into consideration corporate liquidity and income requirements, as well as insurance department regulations and ratings agency comments. We discuss our portfolio strategies in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 18. We believe that a weak or prolonged recovery from current economic conditions could heighten the risk of renewed pressure on securities markets, which could lead to additional other than temporary impairment charges. Our asset impairment committee continues to monitor the investment portfolio. The current asset impairment policy is described in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 42. Other Revenues for our Other businesses increased during 2009, primarily due to earned premiums from our excess and surplus lines business. Other also includes other income of our standard market insurance subsidiary, as well as non investment operations of the parent company and its subsidiary, CFC Investment Company, and former subsidiary CinFin Capital Management Company. Upon commencing our excess and surplus lines operations in 2008, we also included results of The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company and CSU Producer Resources. Losses before income taxes for Other were largely driven by interest expense from debt of the parent company plus losses and loss expenses and underwriting expenses from our excess and surplus lines operation. Years ended December 31, 2009 2008 2008 2007 (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Change % Change % Interest and fees on loans and leases $ 7 $ 8 $ 10 (10.2 ) (21.1 ) Earned premiums 27 5 0 499.0 nm Money management fees 2 3 nm (29.2 ) Other revenues 5 1 2 181.0 (27.8 ) Total revenues 39 16 15 144.6 6.6 Interest expense 55 53 51 3.5 3.8 Loss and loss expenses 20 5 0 308.6 nm Underwriting expenses 21 5 1 343.1 318.9 Operating expenses 15 17 9 (11.3 ) 74.3 Total expenses 111 80 61 22.3 20.8 Other loss $ (72 ) $ (64 ) $ (46 ) 10.6 (25.3 ) Taxes We had $150 million of income tax expense in 2009 compared with $111 million in 2008 and $337 million in 2007. The effective tax rate for 2009 was 25.7 percent compared with 20.7 percent in 2008 and 28.3 percent in 2007. The change in our effective tax rate was driven by changes in pretax income from underwriting results, investment income from dividends and the amount of realized investment gains and losses. Higher tax exempt interest and changes in our dividends received deduction in the current year compared with prior years also contributed with the change in the effective tax rates from 2007 to 2009. Historically, we have pursued a strategy of investing some portion of cash flow in tax advantaged fixed maturity and equity securities to minimize our overall tax liability and maximize after tax earnings. See Tax Exempt Fixed Maturities, Page 19 for further discussion on municipal bond purchases in our fixed maturity investment portfolio. For our insurance subsidiaries, approximately 85 percent of income from tax advantaged fixed maturity investments is exempt from federal tax. Our non insurance companies own an immaterial amount of tax advantaged fixed maturity investments. For our insurance subsidiaries, the dividend received deduction, after the dividend proration of the 1986 Tax Reform Act, exempts approximately 60 percent of dividends from qualified equities from federal tax. For our non insurance subsidiaries, the dividend received deduction exempts 70 percent of dividends from qualified equities. Details about our effective tax rate are found on Note 11, Income Taxes, Page 108. Page 67 Liquidity And Capital Resources Liquidity and capital resources represent the overall financial strength of our company and our ability to generate cash flows to meet the short and long term cash requirements of business obligations and growth needs. We seek to maintain prudent levels of liquidity and financial strength for the protection of our policyholders, creditors and shareholders. We manage liquidity at two levels. The first is the liquidity of the parent company. The second is the liquidity of our insurance subsidiary. The management of liquidity at both levels is essential because each has different funding needs and sources, and each is subject to certain regulatory guidelines and requirements. Parent Company Liquidity The parent companys primary means of meeting liquidity requirements are dividends from our insurance subsidiary, investment income and sale proceeds from investments held at the parent company level. The parent companys primary contractual obligations are interest and principal payments on long and short term debt as described under Contractual Obligations, Page 71. Other uses of parent company cash include general operating expenses described under Other Commitments, Page 71, as well as dividends to shareholders and common stock repurchases. As of December 31, 2009, the parent company had $998 million in cash and marketable securities, providing strong liquidity to fund uses of cash. This table below shows a summary, by the direct method, of the major sources and uses of liquidity by the parent company. Dividends received in 2009 and 2008 from our insurance subsidiary were much lower than in the several years prior to that, in order to maintain strong statutory surplus and financial strength ratings. We expect sources of liquidity to increase in 2010 and beyond, as we anticipate investment income growth and improved profitability for our property casualty operations. A dividend of $50 million was received from our insurance subsidiary in January 2010. The majority of expenditures for the parent company have been consistent during the last three years, and we expect future expenditures to remain fairly stable. Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Sources of liquidity: Insurance subsidiary dividends received $ 0 $ 220 $ 450 Other operating subsidiaries dividends received 0 10 0 Investment income received 41 81 99 Uses of liquidity: Debt interest payments $ 52 $ 53 $ 52 Pension payments 34 34 10 Shareholders dividend payments 249 250 240 Purchase (issuance) of treasury shares (1 ) 138 307 At the discretion of the board of directors, the company can return cash directly to shareholders: Dividends to shareholders Over the past 10 years, the company has paid an average of 39.9 percent of net income as dividends. The ability of the company to continue paying cash dividends is subject to factors the board of directors may deem relevant. Through 2009, the board had increased our cash dividend for 49 consecutive years. The board decision in August 2009 to increase the dividend demonstrated confidence in the companys strong capital, liquidity, financial flexibility and initiatives to improve earnings performance. While the board and management believe there is merit to sustaining the companys record of dividend increases, our first priority is the companys financial strength. Common stock repurchase Generally, our board believes that stock repurchases can help fulfill our commitment to enhancing shareholder value. Consequently, the board has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares, giving management discretion to purchase shares at reasonable prices in light of circumstances at the time of purchase, pursuant to SEC regulations. Consistent with our approach for the second half of 2008, in 2009 we chose to preserve capital rather than repurchase shares. During the first half of 2008, we repurchased 3.8 million shares. In the past, repurchases have occurred when we believed that stock prices on the open market were favorable for such repurchases. Our corporate Code of Conduct restricts repurchases during certain time periods. The details of the repurchase authorizations and activity are described in Item 5, Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, Page 30. Between February 1999 and year end 2009, we have repurchased 28.7 million shares at a total cost to the company of $1.105 billion. We do not adjust the number of shares repurchased and average price per repurchased share for stock dividends. Page 68 Insurance Subsidiary Liquidity Our insurance subsidiarys primary means of meeting liquidity requirements are investment income, sale proceeds from investments held at the subsidiary level and collection of insurance premiums. Property casualty insurance premiums generally are received before losses are paid under the policies purchased with those premiums. While first year life insurance expenses normally exceed first year premiums, subsequent premiums are used to generate investment income until the policy benefits are paid or the policy term expires. Our insurance subsidiaries primary contractual obligations are property casualty loss and loss expenses and life policyholder obligations as well as certain ongoing operating expenses as shown under Contractual Obligations, Page 71. Other uses of insurance subsidiary cash include payments of dividends to the parent company and other operating expenses as discussed under Other Commitments, Page 71. This table shows a summary of operating cash flow of the insurance subsidiary (direct method): Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2009 2008 2007 Premiums collected $ 3,083 $ 3,163 $ 3,256 Loss and loss expenses paid (2,030 ) (2,064 ) (1,888 ) Commissions and other underwriting expenses paid (1,049 ) (1,078 ) (1,053 ) Insurance subsidiary cash flow from underwriting 4 21 315 Investment income received 432 475 502 Insurance subsidiary operating cash flow $ 436 $ 496 $ 817 Over the past three years, cash receipts from property casualty and life insurance premiums, along with investment income, have been more than sufficient to pay claims, operating expenses and dividends to the parent company. We discuss the factors that affected insurance operations in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 48 and Page 57. Additional Sources of Liquidity Investing is a primary source of liquidity for both the parent company and our insurance subsidiary operations. For both, cash in excess of operating requirements is invested in fixed maturity and equity securities. Equity securities provide the potential for future increases in dividend income and for appreciation. In Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 18, we discuss our investment strategy, portfolio allocation and quality. Income from our investments is the most important investment contribution to cash flow. While we have never sold investments to make claims payments, the sale of investments could provide an additional source of liquidity at either the parent company or insurance subsidiary level, if required, although we follow a buy and hold investment philosophy seeking to compound cash flows over the long term. In addition to possible sales of investments, proceeds of call or maturities of fixed maturities also can provide liquidity. During the next five years, $2.135 billion, or 28.4 percent, of our fixed maturity portfolio will mature. At year end 2009, total unrealized gains in the investment portfolio, before deferred income taxes, were $1.026 billion, up from $588 million at year end 2008. Net unrealized gains in 2009 nearly doubled from year end 2008, even after a significant amount of gains was realized during 2009. Further, financial resources of the parent company also could be made available to our insurance subsidiaries, if circumstances required. This flexibility would include our ability to access the capital markets and short term bank borrowings. One way we seek to maintain a solid financial position and provide capital flexibility is by keeping our ratio of debt to total capital moderate. We target a ratio below 20 percent. At year end 2009, the ratio was 15.0 percent compared with 16.7 percent at year end 2008. The decrease in the debt to total capital ratio was due entirely to the increase in shareholders equity at year end 2009. Based on our present capital requirements, we do not believe we will need to increase debt levels during 2010. As a result, we believe that changes in our debt to capital ratio will again be a function of changes in shareholders equity. We had $790 million of long term debt and $49 million in borrowings on our short term lines of credit at year end 2009. We generally have minimized our reliance on debt financing although we may use lines of credit to fund short term cash needs. Long Term Debt We provide details of our three long term notes in Item 8, Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 106. None of the notes are encumbered by rating triggers: $391 million aggregate principal amount of 6.92% senior debentures due 2028. $28 million aggregate principal amount of 6.9% senior debentures due 2028. $374 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior debentures due 2034. The companys senior debt is rated investment grade by independent ratings firms. On August 2, 2009, Fitch Ratings lowered our senior debt rating from A to BBB+. Three other rating agencies made no changes Page 69 to our debt ratings in 2009. Our debt ratings from the other rating agencies are: a from A.M. Best, A3 from Moodys Investors Service and BBB+ from Standard & Poors Ratings Services. The ratings are described in Item 1, Financial Strength, Page 3. Short Term Debt At December 31, 2009, we had two lines of credit with commercial banks amounting to $225 million, with $49 million borrowed. Access to these lines of credit requires compliance with various covenants, including maintaining a minimum consolidated net worth and not exceeding a certain debt to capital ratio. As of December 31, 2009, we were well within compliance with all of the covenants under the credit agreements. Our $75 million unsecured line of credit with PNC Bank, N.A. was established more than five years ago and was renewed effective August 31, 2009, for a one year term to expire on August 29, 2010. CFC Investment Company, a subsidiary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation, also is a borrower under this line of credit. At year end 2008, $49 million was outstanding on this line of credit, which was repaid in 2009. PNC Bank is a subsidiary of PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. (NYSE:PNC). The second line of credit is an unsecured $150 million revolving line of credit administered by The Huntington National Bank. It was established in 2007 and will mature in 2012. CFC Investment Company, a subsidiary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation, also is a borrower under this line of credit. At year end 2009, there was $49 million outstanding on this line of credit. The Huntington National Bank, a subsidiary of Huntington Bancshares Inc. (NASDAQ:HBAN), is the lead participant with a $75 million share. U.S. Bancorp (NYSE:USB), Bank of America (NYSE:BAC) and Northern Trust Corporation (NASDAQ:NTRS) also participate, each providing $25 million of capacity. The line of credit includes a swing line sub facility for same day borrowing in the amount of $35 million. The credit agreement provides alternative interest charges based on the type of borrowing and our debt rating. The interest rate charged for an advancement is adjusted LIBOR plus the applicable margin. Based on our debt ratings at year end 2009, interest for Eurodollar rate advances is adjusted LIBOR plus 33 basis points, and for floating rate advances is adjusted LIBOR. Utilization and commitment fees based on Cincinnati Financial Corporations current debt rating are 5 basis points and 8 basis points, respectively. CFC Investment Company, a subsidiary of Cincinnati Financial Corporation, is a co borrower under the agreement. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook A long term perspective governs all of our major decisions, with the goal of benefiting our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates over time. While our insurance results remained weak for 2009, even after a strong second half of the year, our improved capital position from year end 2008 provided adequate cushion. We have taken the necessary steps to protect our capital and are confident in our strategies to return our insurance operations to growth and profitability. Our consistent cash flows and prudent cash balances continue to create strong liquidity. As of December 31, 2009, we had $557 million in cash and cash equivalents. That strong liquidity and our consistent cash flows gives us the flexibility to meet current obligations while building value by prudently investing where we see potential for both current income and long term return. In any year, we consider the most likely source of pressure on liquidity would be an unusually high level of catastrophe losses within a short period of time. This could create additional obligations for our insurance operations by increasing the severity or frequency of claims. To address the risk of unusual insurance loss obligations including catastrophe events, we maintain property casualty reinsurance contracts with highly rated reinsurers, as discussed under 2010 Reinsurance Programs, Page 79. We also monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers because an insolvency could place in jeopardy a portion of our $675 million in outstanding reinsurance recoverables as of December 31, 2009. Continued economic weakness also has the potential to affect our liquidity and capital resources in a number of different ways, including: delinquent payments from agencies, defaults on interest payments by fixed maturity holdings in our portfolio, dividend reductions by holdings in our equity portfolio or declines in the market value of holdings in our portfolio. Further, parent company liquidity could be constrained by State of Ohio regulatory requirements that restrict the dividends insurance subsidiaries can pay. During 2010, total dividends that our insurance subsidiary can pay to our parent company without regulatory approval are approximately $365 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not use any special purpose financing vehicles or have any undisclosed off balance sheet arrangements (as that term is defined in applicable SEC rules) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the companys financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Similarly, the company holds no fair value contracts for which a lack of marketplace quotations would necessitate the use of fair value techniques. Page 70 Obligations We pay obligations to customers, suppliers and associates in the normal course of our business operations. Some are contractual obligations that define the amount, circumstances and or timing of payments. We have other commitments for business expenditures; however, the amount, circumstances and or timing of our other commitments are not dictated by contractual arrangements. Other Commitments As of December 31, 2009, we believe our most significant other commitments are: Qualified pension plan In 2010, we currently estimate a voluntary cash contribution of $25 million to our qualified pension plan, a $12 million net pension expense and a $7 million expense for company 401(k) contributions. Going forward, potential savings due to lower funding requirements for the pension plan are expected to be offset by the company 401(k) contributions. In 2008, we chose to transition away from a defined benefit plan to reduce the companys future market risk while offering associates an up to date, more flexible benefits program. We discuss the change to the pension plan, future contributions and plan assets in Item 8, Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 109. Commissions We expect commission payments to generally track with written premiums. We discuss commission trends in the Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49 and Page 57. Other operating expenses Many of our operating expenses are not contractual obligations but reflect the ongoing expenses of our business. Technology In addition to contractual obligations for hardware and software discussed below, we anticipate capitalizing approximately $20 million in spending for key technology initiatives in 2010. Technology projects are discussed in Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 8. Capitalized development costs related to key technology initiatives totaled $28 million in 2009 and $38 million in 2008. These activities are conducted at our discretion, and we have no material contractual obligations for activities planned as part of these projects. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2009, we estimate our future contractual obligations as follows: Payment due by period Year Years Years There (In millions) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 after Total Gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments $ 1,210 $ 1,324 $ 590 $ 972 $ 4,096 Gross life policyholder obligations 46 76 112 3,268 3,502 Interest on long term debt 52 104 104 838 1,098 Long term debt 0 0 0 793 793 Short term debt 49 0 0 0 49 Profit sharing commissions 81 0 0 0 81 Operating property 1 0 0 0 1 Capital lease obligations 12 15 1 0 28 Computer hardware and software 12 13 3 0 28 Other invested assets 4 7 0 0 11 Total $ 1,467 $ 1,539 $ 810 $ 5,871 $ 9,687 Our most significant contractual obligations are discussed in conjunction with related insurance reserves in Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments and Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations on Page 71 and Page 78, respectively. Other future contractual obligations include: Interest on long and short term debt We expect total interest expense to be approximately $52 million in 2010. We discuss outstanding debt in Additional Sources of Liquidity, Page 69. Profit sharing commissions Profit sharing, or contingent, commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account agency profitability and other factors. We estimate 2010 contingent commission payments of approximately $81 million. We discuss commission expense trends in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49 and Page 57. Computer hardware and software We expect to need approximately $25 million over the next three years for current material commitments for computer hardware and software, including maintenance contracts on hardware and other known obligations. We discussed above the non contractual expenses we anticipate for computer hardware and software in 2010. Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments Our estimate of future gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments of $4.096 billion is lower than loss and loss expense reserves of $4.142 billion as of year end 2009. The $46 million difference is Page 71 due to life and health loss reserves, as discussed in Item 8, Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 105. While we believe that historical performance of property casualty and life loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claim payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. We believe that we could meet our obligations under a significant and unexpected change in the timing of these payments because of the liquidity of our invested assets, strong financial position and access to lines of credit. Our estimates of gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments also do not include reinsurance receivables or ceded losses. As discussed in 2010 Reinsurance Programs, Page 79, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our property casualty risk exposure. Ceded property casualty reinsurance unpaid receivables of $435 million at year end 2009 are an offset to our gross property casualty loss and loss expense obligations. Our reinsurance program mitigates the liquidity risk of a single large loss or an unexpected rise in claim severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover losses under our reinsurance agreements depends on the financial viability of the reinsurers. We direct our associates and agencies to settle claims and pay losses as quickly as is practical and we made $1.923 billion of net claim payments during 2009. At year end 2009, net property casualty reserves reflected $2.026 billion in unpaid amounts on reported claims (case reserves), $792 million in loss expense reserves and $843 million in estimates of claims that were incurred but had not yet been reported (IBNR). The specific amounts and timing of obligations related to case reserves and associated loss expenses are not set contractually. The amounts and timing of obligations for IBNR claims and related loss expenses are unknown. We discuss our methods of establishing loss and loss expense reserves and our belief that reserves are adequate in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 38. The historical pattern of using premium receipts for the payment of loss and loss expenses has enabled us to extend slightly the maturities of our investment portfolio beyond the estimated settlement date of the loss reserves. The effective duration of our consolidated fixed maturity portfolio was 5.3 years at year end 2009. By contrast, the duration of our loss and loss expense reserves was approximately three years. We believe this difference in duration does not affect our ability to meet current obligations because cash flow from operations is sufficient to meet these obligations. In addition, investment holdings could be liquidated, if necessary, to meet higher than anticipated loss and loss expenses. Range of Reasonable Reserves The company established a reasonably likely range for net loss and loss expense reserves of $3.459 billion to $3.774 billion at year end 2009, with the company carrying net reserves of $3.661 billion. The likely range was $3.256 billion to $3.592 billion at year end 2008, with the company carrying net reserves of $3.498 billion. Our loss and loss expense reserves are not discounted for the time value of money, but we have reduced the reserves by an estimate of the amount of salvage and subrogation payments we expect to recover. We provide a reconciliation of the property casualty reserves with the loss and loss expense reserve as shown on the balance sheet in Item 8, Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 105. The low point of each years range corresponds to approximately one standard error below each years mean reserve estimate, while the high point corresponds to approximately one standard error above each years mean reserve estimate. We discussed managements reasons for basing reasonably likely reserve ranges on standard errors in Critical Accounting Estimates, Reserve Estimate Variability, Page 41. The ranges reflect our assessment of the most likely unpaid loss and loss expenses at year end 2009 and 2008. However, actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges. Managements best estimate of total loss and loss expense reserves as of year end 2009 was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate. Managements best estimate of total loss and loss expense reserves as of year end 2008 also was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate. Development of Reserves for Loss and Loss Expenses We reconcile the beginning and ending balances of our reserves for loss and loss expenses at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, in Item 8, Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 105. The reconciliation of our year end 2008 reserve balance to net incurred losses one year later recognizes approximately $188 million of favorable reserve development. The table on the following page shows the development of estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses for the past 10 years. Section A shows our total property casualty loss and loss expense reserves recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated calendar years on a gross and net basis. Those reserves represent Page 72 the estimated amount of unpaid loss and loss expenses for claims arising in the indicated calendar year and all prior accident years at the balance sheet date, including losses that were incurred but not yet reported to the company. Section B shows the cumulative net amount paid with respect to the previously recorded reserve as of the end of each succeeding year. For example, as of December 31, 2009, we had paid $1.567 billion of loss and loss expenses in calendar years 2000 through 2009 for losses that occurred in accident years 1999 and prior. An estimated $201 million of losses remained unpaid as of year end 2009 (net re estimated reserves of $1.768 billion from Section C less cumulative net paid loss and loss expenses of $1.567 billion). Section C shows the re estimated amount of the previously reported reserves based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as we learn more about the development of the related claims. Section D, cumulative net reserve development, represents the aggregate change in the estimates for all years subsequent to the year the reserves were initially established. For example, reserves established at December 31, 1999, had developed favorably by $164 million over 10 years, net of reinsurance, which was reflected in income over the 10 years. The table shows favorable reserve development as a negative number. Favorable reserve development on prior accident years, which represents a negative expense, is favorable to income. The reconciliation shows the effects on income before income taxes in 2009, 2008 and 2007 of changes in estimates of the reserves for loss and loss expenses for all accident years. The effect was favorable to pre tax income for those three years by $188 million, $323 million, and $244 million, respectively. Our annual review has led us to add to income in each of the past 21 years due to favorable development of reserves on prior accident years. In evaluating the development of our estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses for the past 10 years, note that each amount includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior periods. For example, payments or reserve adjustments related to losses settled in 2009 but incurred in 2002 are included in the cumulative deficiency or redundancy amount for 2002 and each subsequent year. In addition, this table presents calendar year data, not accident or policy year development data, which readers may be more accustomed to analyzing. Conditions and trends that affected development of reserves in the past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to extrapolate future reserve development based on this data. Differences between the property casualty reserves reported in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets (prepared in accordance with GAAP) and those same reserves reported in the annual statements (filed with state insurance departments in accordance with statutory accounting practices SAP), relate principally to the reporting of reinsurance recoverables, which are recognized as receivables for GAAP and as an offset to reserves for SAP. Page 73 Development of Estimated Reserves for Loss and Loss Expenses Calendar year ended December 31, (In millions) 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 A. Originally reported reserves for unpaid loss and loss expenses: Gross of reinsurance $ 2,093 $ 2,401 $ 2,865 $ 3,150 $ 3,386 $ 3,514 $ 3,629 $ 3,860 $ 3,925 $ 4,040 $ 4,096 Reinsurance recoverable 161 219 513 542 541 537 518 504 528 542 435 Net of reinsurance $ 1,932 $ 2,182 $ 2,352 $ 2,608 $ 2,845 $ 2,977 $ 3,111 $ 3,356 $ 3,397 $ 3,498 $ 3,661 B. Cumulative net paid as of: One year later $ 591 $ 697 $ 758 $ 799 $ 817 $ 907 $ 944 $ 1,006 $ 979 $ 994 Two years later 943 1,116 1,194 1,235 1,293 1,426 1,502 1,547 1,523 Three years later 1,195 1,378 1,455 1,519 1,626 1,758 1,845 1,896 Four years later 1,327 1,526 1,614 1,716 1,823 1,963 2,059 Five years later 1,412 1,623 1,717 1,823 1,945 2,096 Six years later 1,464 1,680 1,778 1,889 2,031 Seven years later 1,496 1,717 1,819 1,940 Eight years later 1,520 1,750 1,855 Nine years later 1,545 1,778 Ten years later 1,567 C. Net reserves re estimated as of: One year later $ 1,912 $ 2,120 $ 2,307 $ 2,528 $ 2,649 $ 2,817 $ 2,995 $ 3,112 $ 3,074 $ 3,310 Two years later 1,833 2,083 2,263 2,377 2,546 2,743 2,871 2,893 3,042 Three years later 1,802 2,052 2,178 2,336 2,489 2,657 2,724 2,898 Four years later 1,771 2,010 2,153 2,299 2,452 2,578 2,776 Five years later 1,757 1,999 2,127 2,276 2,414 2,645 Six years later 1,733 1,992 2,122 2,259 2,469 Seven years later 1,739 1,994 2,111 2,298 Eight years later 1,746 1,986 2,147 Nine years later 1,741 2,018 Ten years later 1,768 D. Cumulative net redundancy as of: One year later $ (20 ) $ (62 ) $ (45 ) $ (80 ) $ (196 ) $ (160 ) $ (116 ) $ (244 ) $ (323 ) $ (188 ) Two years later (99 ) (99 ) (89 ) (231 ) (299 ) (234 ) (240 ) (463 ) (355 ) Three years later (130 ) (130 ) (174 ) (272 ) (356 ) (320 ) (387 ) (458 ) Four years later (161 ) (172 ) (199 ) (309 ) (393 ) (399 ) (335 ) Five years later (175 ) (183 ) (225 ) (332 ) (431 ) (332 ) Six years later (199 ) (190 ) (230 ) (349 ) (376 ) Seven years later (193 ) (188 ) (241 ) (310 ) Eight years later (186 ) (196 ) (205 ) Nine years later (191 ) (164 ) Ten years later (164 ) Net reserves re estimatedlatest $ 1,768 $ 2,018 $ 2,147 $ 2,298 $ 2,469 $ 2,645 $ 2,776 $ 2,898 $ 3,042 $ 3,310 Re estimated recoverablelatest 220 247 519 550 532 552 512 506 484 522 Gross liability re estimatedlatest $ 1,988 $ 2,265 $ 2,666 $ 2,848 $ 3,001 $ 3,197 $ 3,288 $ 3,404 $ 3,526 $ 3,832 Cumulative gross redundancy $ (105 ) $ (136 ) $ (199 ) $ (302 ) $ (385 ) $ (317 ) $ (341 ) $ (456 ) $ (399 ) $ (208 ) Asbestos and Environmental Reserves We carried $118 million of net loss and loss expense reserves for asbestos and environmental claims as of year end 2009, compared with $114 million for such claims as of year end 2008. These amounts constitute 3.2 percent and 3.3 percent of total loss and loss expense reserves as of these year end dates. We believe our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims is limited, largely because our reinsurance retention was $500,000 or below prior to 1987. We also predominantly were a personal lines company in the 1960s and 1970s when asbestos and pollution exclusions were not widely used. During the 1980s and early 1990s, commercial lines grew as a percentage of our overall business and our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims grew accordingly. Over that period, we endorsed to or included in most policies an asbestos and environmental exclusion. Additionally, since 2002, we have revised policy terms where permitted by state regulation to limit our exposure to mold claims prospectively and further reduce our exposure to other environmental claims generally. Finally, we have not engaged in any mergers or acquisitions through which such a liability could have been assumed. We continue to monitor our claims for evidence of material exposure to other mass tort classes such as silicosis, but we have found no such credible evidence to date. Reserving data for asbestos and environmental claims has characteristics that limit the usefulness of the methods and models used to analyze loss and loss expense reserves for other claims. Specifically, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expenses for different accident years do not emerge independently of one another as loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods assume. In addition, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expense data available to date does not reflect a well defined tail, greatly complicating the identification of an appropriate probabilistic trend family model. Page 74 Due to these considerations, our actuarial staff elected to use a paid survival ratio method to estimate reserves for incurred but not yet reported asbestos and environmental claims. Although highly uncertain, reserve estimates obtained via this method have developed in a reasonably stable fashion since 2004. Between 2006 and 2009, total asbestos and environmental reserves decreased 9.6 percent. Since our exposure to such claims is limited, we believe the paid survival ratio method is sufficient. Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves For the business lines in the commercial lines insurance segment, the following table shows the breakout of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. The rise in total gross reserves for our commercial business lines is primarily due to workers compensation IBNR reserve strengthening, as discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49. Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent (Dollars in millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2009 Commercial casualty $ 1,044 $ 309 $ 540 $ 1,893 50.8 % Commercial property 84 15 31 130 3.5 Commercial auto 266 47 65 378 10.1 Workers compensation 452 458 143 1,053 28.3 Specialty packages 68 5 10 83 2.2 Surety and executive risk 128 (2 ) 55 181 4.9 Machinery and equipment 2 3 1 6 0.2 Total $ 2,044 $ 835 $ 845 $ 3,724 100.0 % At December 31, 2008 Commercial casualty $ 1,046 $ 327 $ 527 $ 1,900 52.0 % Commercial property 135 7 32 174 4.8 Commercial auto 276 48 65 389 10.6 Workers compensation 445 353 126 924 25.3 Specialty packages 74 1 10 85 2.3 Surety and executive risk 129 (4 ) 50 175 4.8 Machinery and equipment 3 3 1 7 0.2 Total $ 2,108 $ 735 $ 811 $ 3,654 100.0 % Page 75 The following table shows net reserve changes at year end 2009, 2008 and 2007 by commercial line of business and accident year: Commercial Commercial Commercial Workers Specialty Surety & Machinery & (In millions) casualty property auto compensation packages exec risk equipment Totals As of December 31, 2009 2008 accident year $ (89 ) $ (15 ) $ (13 ) $ (11 ) $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ 0 $ (134 ) 2007 accident year (36 ) 0 (5 ) 5 2 9 (1 ) (26 ) 2006 accident year (33 ) 4 (4 ) 2 0 (3 ) (1 ) (35 ) 2005 accident year (17 ) (1 ) 1 6 2 (5 ) 0 (14 ) 2004 accident year 3 (2 ) 0 6 1 0 0 8 2003 accident year 9 (1 ) 1 6 0 0 0 15 2002 and prior accident years 9 (1 ) 0 34 (1 ) (2 ) 0 39 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (154 ) $ (16 ) $ (20 ) $ 48 $ 0 $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ (147 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31,2008 $ 1,559 $ 136 $ 385 $ 842 $ 82 $ 130 $ 7 $ 3,141 Reserves re estimated as of December 31,2009 1,405 120 365 890 82 127 5 2,994 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (154 ) $ (16 ) $ (20 ) $ 48 $ 0 $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ (147 ) As of December 31, 2008 2007 accident year $ (93 ) $ 0 $ (7 ) $ (21 ) $ 1 $ 14 $ 0 $ (106 ) 2006 accident year (55 ) (7 ) 5 0 (1 ) (2 ) 1 (59 ) 2005 accident year (48 ) (2 ) (1 ) 5 (2 ) (2 ) 0 (50 ) 2004 accident year (27 ) 1 (4 ) 4 (2 ) (3 ) 0 (31 ) 2003 accident year (19 ) 0 1 6 0 (1 ) 0 (13 ) 2002 accident year (4 ) 0 (2 ) 1 0 1 0 (4 ) 2001 and prior accident years (11 ) (2 ) 0 3 0 0 0 (10 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (257 ) $ (10 ) $ (8 ) $ (2 ) $ (4 ) $ 7 $ 1 $ (273 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31,2007 $ 1,565 $ 121 $ 383 $ 777 $ 76 $ 94 $ 8 $ 3,024 Reserves re estimated as of December 31,2008 1,308 111 375 775 72 101 9 2,751 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (257 ) $ (10 ) $ (8 ) $ (2 ) $ (4 ) $ 7 $ 1 $ (273 ) As of December 31, 2007 2006 accident year $ (70 ) $ (4 ) $ (15 ) $ (20 ) $ 1 $ 3 $ (1 ) $ (106 ) 2005 accident year (22 ) (13 ) (7 ) 0 2 3 (1 ) (38 ) 2004 accident year (34 ) (1 ) 1 1 (1 ) (1 ) 0 (35 ) 2003 accident year (2 ) 0 (3 ) (1 ) 0 (3 ) 0 (9 ) 2002 accident year (15 ) (1 ) 1 5 (1 ) (3 ) 0 (14 ) 2001 accident year (8 ) 0 (1 ) 2 0 1 0 (6 ) 2000 and prior accident years 2 0 (2 ) 3 0 1 0 4 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (149 ) $ (19 ) $ (26 ) $ (10 ) $ 1 $ 1 $ (2 ) $ (204 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31,2006 $ 1,483 $ 170 $ 386 $ 713 $ 84 $ 83 $ 9 $ 2,928 Reserves re estimated as of December 31,2007 1,334 151 360 703 85 84 7 2,724 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (149 ) $ (19 ) $ (26 ) $ (10 ) $ 1 $ 1 $ (2 ) $ (204 ) Overall favorable development for commercial lines reserves of $147 million in 2009 illustrated the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially for long tail lines such as commercial casualty and workers compensation. Favorable reserve development of $154 million for the commercial casualty line exceeded the segment total in 2009, while adverse reserve development for the workers compensation line reduced segment favorable reserve development by $48 million. Drivers of commercial casualty and workers compensation reserve development are discussed below. Refinements to umbrella liability reserving As discussed on page 79 of our 2008 Annual Report on 10 K, our actuaries introduced a second reserving model at the end of 2008 to improve the accuracy of estimates of commercial umbrella liability loss reserves, which are a component of our commercial casualty reserves. Further work on these models led to a change in the weighting accorded to each models estimate for deriving actuarial best estimates in 2009. If this change had been in place at the time year end 2008 reserves were established, commercial casualty reserves at year end 2008 would have been approximately $19 million lower. Accordingly, 2009 favorable reserve development would have been reduced by a like amount. Flat paid loss trends Two of our commercial casualty coverages exhibited flat paid loss trends in 2009, which differed from our expectations. Trends in paid losses on a calendar year basis for medical malpractice and non discounted premises/operations coverages were essentially flat in 2009, while year end 2008 reserve estimates reflected upward trends of over 8 percent for these coverages. Had our actuaries reflected these flat trends in paid losses in their reserve estimates a year ago, commercial casualty reserves at year end 2008 would have been reduced by $22 million, and favorable reserve development in 2009 would have been similarly lower. Moderation in trend selections Various commercial casualty coverages that we write have reflected moderating loss cost trends over periods of one or more years. A number of factors seem to have played a role, including sluggish economic activity, favorable court decisions, policy form restrictions, medical malpractice tort reform and claims department initiatives. Accordingly, it is not wholly clear whether these moderating loss cost trends represent short term or longer term changes, and our Page 76 actuaries have responded cautiously to these changes, electing to recognize improvements in trends used for estimating reserves in a progressive, incremental fashion. If the resulting, revised trends had been used to estimate year end 2008 reserves, those reserves and 2009 favorable reserve development would have been $31 million lower. Unusual deviations from predictions of reserving methods and models Similar to 2008, commercial multi peril liability coverages made a major contribution to favorable reserve development again in 2009, because both paid loss and reported loss emergence deviated favorably from projections. Projected to rise more than $5 million in 2009, calendar year paid losses on these coverages, excluding asbestos and environmental claims, fell by $22 million instead. Reported losses for accident years 2005 and 2008 also developed more favorably than expected, while reported loss development related to other accident years aligned closely with expectations. If our actuaries had been able to take this information into account when estimating year end 2008 reserves, their estimates would have been $59 million lower, as would 2009 favorable reserve development. Workers compensation reserve strengthening Additions to workers compensation IBNR reserves on accident years prior to 2009 lowered commercial lines favorable reserve development by $48 million. A reserving model adjustment necessitated by increasingly large deviations between expected and actual paid loss emergence prompted the additions to IBNR reserves. To account for the increasingly large deviations, our actuaries partially shifted the attribution of recent accident years paid loss growth from exposure growth to loss cost inflation in their workers compensation reserving models. This adjustment produced a significantly higher estimate of loss cost inflation, which raised reserve estimates for all active accident years, not just the recent accident years for which paid loss growth had been previously misinterpreted. The reserving models resulting from this adjustment would have increased the year end 2008 reserve estimate for workers compensation by approximately $61 million had they been available at the time the estimate was derived. In such an event, 2009 favorable reserve development would have increased by a comparable amount. Refinement in commercial/personal umbrella liability IBNR Reserve Allocation A 2009 study indicated that personal umbrella coverages had been allocated too large a portion of the total IBNR reserve for all umbrella coverages. As a result, $7 million of personal umbrella IBNR reserves was shifted to commercial umbrella, partially offsetting the favorable reserve development detailed in the first four points above. The above points cover drivers of commercial casualty and workers compensation reserve development in 2009 attributable to unusual deviations from expectations and changes in methods, models, and procedures. An examination of factors contributing to the remaining $41 million of commercial lines favorable reserve development, not accounted for by the commercial casualty and workers compensation lines, did not turn up any abnormal or unexpected variations. As noted in Critical Accounting Estimates, Key Assumptions Loss Reserving, Page 40, our models predict that actual loss and loss expense emergence will differ from projections, and we do not attempt to monitor or identify such normal variations. Personal Lines Insurance Segment Reserves For the business lines in the personal lines insurance segment, the following table shows the breakout of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. Total gross reserves were down from year end 2008 due to favorable reserve development and the decline in premiums and exposures for this segment, as we discussed in Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 57. Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent (Dollars in millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2009 Personal auto $ 130 $ (4 ) $ 28 $ 154 44.2 % Homeowners 56 26 17 99 28.4 Other personal 45 42 9 96 27.4 Total $ 231 $ 64 $ 54 $ 349 100.0 % At December 31, 2008 Personal auto $ 141 $ (3 ) $ 28 $ 166 43.5 % Homeowners 67 17 15 99 26.0 Other personal 53 52 11 116 30.5 Total $ 261 $ 66 $ 54 $ 381 100.0 % Page 77 The following table shows net reserve changes at year end 2009, 2008 and 2007 by personal line of business and accident year: Personal Other (In millions) auto Homeowner personal Totals As of December 31, 2009 2008 accident year $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ (17 ) $ (22 ) 2007 accident year (3 ) 3 (12 ) (12 ) 2006 accident year (1 ) 0 (10 ) (11 ) 2005 accident year 1 0 (1 ) 0 2004 accident year 0 0 5 5 2003 accident year 0 (1 ) 2 1 2002 and prior accident years 0 0 (1 ) (1 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (6 ) $ 0 $ (34 ) $ (40 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2008 $ 165 $ 82 $ 106 $ 353 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2009 159 82 72 313 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (6 ) $ 0 $ (34 ) $ (40 ) As of December 31, 2008 2007 accident year $ 11 $ (1 ) $ (8 ) $ 2 2006 accident year (4 ) (3 ) (5 ) (12 ) 2005 accident year (9 ) (1 ) (8 ) (18 ) 2004 accident year (5 ) (2 ) (3 ) (10 ) 2003 accident year (3 ) (1 ) (4 ) (8 ) 2002 accident year (1 ) 0 (1 ) (2 ) 2001 and prior accident years (1 ) 0 (1 ) (2 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (12 ) $ (8 ) $ (30 ) $ (50 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2007 $ 189 $ 77 $ 107 $ 373 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2008 177 69 77 323 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (12 ) $ (8 ) $ (30 ) $ (50 ) As of December 31, 2007 2006 accident year $ 3 $ (7 ) $ (11 ) $ (15 ) 2005 accident year 5 0 (5 ) 0 2004 accident year (2 ) (3 ) (10 ) (15 ) 2003 accident year (3 ) (1 ) (1 ) (5 ) 2002 accident year (1 ) 0 (4 ) (5 ) 2001 accident year 0 0 (1 ) (1 ) 2000 and prior accident years 0 1 (1 ) 0 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ 2 $ (10 ) $ (33 ) $ (41 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2006 $ 206 $ 104 $ 118 $ 428 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2007 208 94 85 387 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ 2 $ (10 ) $ (33 ) $ (41 ) Favorable development for personal lines segment reserves illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. Several atypical factors discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 75, that contributed to commercial lines segment reserve development in 2009 also contributed to personal lines favorable reserve development. In consideration of the datas credibility, we analyze commercial and personal umbrella liability reserves together and then allocate the derived total reserve estimate to the commercial and personal coverages. Consequently, all of the umbrella factors that contributed to commercial lines reserve development also contributed to personal lines reserve development through the other personal line, of which personal umbrella coverages are a part. Specifically, refinements in the use of umbrella reserving models, revisions to umbrella trend selections, and refinements in the umbrella reserve allocation all contributed favorably to other personal reserve development in 2009. If our actuaries had reflected all of this information and these related changes in their year end 2008 reserve estimates, other personal reserves carried at year end 2008 would have been $19 million lower. Accordingly, favorable reserve development in 2009 for the other personal line and the personal lines segment would have been lower by a like amount. Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations and Reserves Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations Our estimates of life, annuity and disability policyholder obligations reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders for future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and separate account liabilities. These estimates include death and disability claims, policy surrenders, policy maturities, annuity payments, minimum guarantees on separate account products, commissions and premium taxes offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in force contracts. Our estimates of gross life, annuity and disability obligations do not reflect net recoveries from reinsurance agreements. Ceded life reinsurance receivables were $213 million at year end 2009. As discussed in Page 78 2010 Reinsurance Programs, Page 79, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our life insurance risk exposure. At year end 2009, ceded death benefits represented approximately 49.0 percent of our total policy face amounts in force. These estimated cash outflows are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows for all years of $3.502 billion (total of life insurance obligations) exceeds the liabilities recorded in life policy reserves and separate accounts for future policy benefits and claims of $2.399 billion (total of life insurance policy reserves and separate account policy reserves). Separate account policy reserves make up all but $2 million of separate accounts liabilities. We have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these policies and contracts that include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates and interest crediting rates. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the amounts presented could materially differ from actual results. Life Insurance Reserves Gross life policy reserves were $1.783 billion at year end 2009, compared with $1.551 billion at year end 2008. We establish reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions. We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments. We regularly review our life insurance business to ensure that any deferred acquisition cost associated with the business is recoverable and that our actuarial liabilities (life insurance segment reserves) make sufficient provision for future benefits and related expenses. 2010 Reinsurance Programs A single large loss or an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event could present us with a liquidity risk. In an effort to control such losses, we avoid marketing property casualty insurance in specific geographic areas, monitor our exposure in certain coastal regions, review aggregate exposures to huge disasters and purchase reinsurance. We use the Risk Management Solutions (RMS) and Applied Insurance Research (AIR) models to evaluate exposures to a once in a 100 year and a once in a 250 year event to help determine appropriate reinsurance coverage programs. In conjunction with these activities, we also continue to evaluate information provided by our reinsurance broker. These various sources explore and analyze credible scientific evidence, including the impact of global climate change, which may affect our exposure under insurance policies. Reinsurance mitigates the risk of highly uncertain exposures and limits the maximum net loss that can arise from large risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure. Managements decisions about the appropriate level of risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in our underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover for losses covered under any reinsurance agreement depends on the financial viability of the reinsurer. Currently participating on our standard market property and casualty per risk and per occurrence programs are Hannover Reinsurance Company, Munich Reinsurance America, Partner Reinsurance Company of the U.S. and Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation, all of which have A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings of A (Excellent) or A+ (Superior). Our property catastrophe program is subscribed through a broker by reinsurers from the United States, Bermuda, London and the European markets. Primary components of the 2010 property and casualty reinsurance program include: Property per risk treaty The primary purpose of the property treaty is to provide capacity up to $25 million, adequate for the majority of the risks we write. It also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $5 million of each loss. Losses between $5 million and $25 million are reinsured at 100 percent. The ceded premium is estimated at $36 million for 2010, compared with $35 million in 2009 and $37 million in 2008. Casualty per occurrence treaty The casualty treaty provides capacity up to $25 million. Similar to the property treaty, it provides sufficient capacity to cover the vast majority of casualty accounts we insure and also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $6 million Page 79 of each loss. Losses between $6 million and $25 million are reinsured at 100 percent. The ceded premium is estimated at $38 million in 2010, compared with $38 million in 2009 and $43 million in 2008. Casualty excess treaties We purchase a casualty reinsurance treaty that provides an additional $25 million in protection for certain casualty losses. This treaty, along with the casualty per occurrence treaty, provides a total of $50 million of protection for workers compensation, extra contractual liability coverage and clash coverage losses, which would apply when a single occurrence involves multiple policyholders of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies or multiple coverages for one insured. The ceded premium is estimated at $2 million in 2010, similar to the premium we paid in 2009. We purchase a second casualty excess treaty, which provides an additional $20 million in casualty loss coverage. This treaty also provides catastrophic coverage for workers compensation and extra contractual liability coverage losses. The ceded premium is estimated at $1 million for 2010, similar to the premium we paid in 2009. Property catastrophe treaty To protect against catastrophic events such as wind and hail, hurricanes or earthquakes, we purchase property catastrophe reinsurance with a limit up to $500 million. For the 2010 treaty, ceded premiums are estimated at $49 million, similar to the $50 million in 2009 and $41 million in 2008. We retain the first $45 million of any loss and varying shares of losses up to $500 million: o 34 percent of losses between $45 million and $70 million o 11 percent of losses between $70 million and $105 million o 10 percent of losses between $105 million and $200 million o 18 percent of losses between $200 million and $300 million o 10 percent of losses between $300 million and $400 million o 9 percent of losses between $400 million and $500 million After reinsurance, our maximum exposure to a catastrophic event that caused $500 million in covered losses would be $104 million compared with $118 million in 2009. The largest catastrophe loss in our history was Hurricane Ike in September 2008, which was estimated to be $145 million before reinsurance at December 31, 2009. The treaty contains one reinstatement provision. Individual risks with insured values in excess of $25 million, as identified in the policy, are handled through a different reinsurance mechanism. We typically reinsure property coverage for individual risks with insured values between $25 million and $65 million under an automatic facultative treaty. For risks with property values exceeding $65 million, we negotiate the purchase of facultative coverage on an individual certificate basis. For casualty coverage on individual risks with limits exceeding $25 million, facultative reinsurance coverage is placed on an individual certificate basis. Terrorism coverage at various levels has been secured in most of our reinsurance agreements. The broadest coverage for this peril is found in the property and casualty working treaties, which provide coverage for commercial and personal risks. Our property catastrophe treaty provides coverage for personal risks, and coverage for commercial risks with total insured values of $10 million or less. For insured values between $10 million and $25 million, there also may be coverage in the property working treaty. A form of reinsurance is also provided through The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA). TRIA was originally signed into law on November 26, 2002, and extended on December 22, 2005, in a revised form, and extended again on December 26, 2007. TRIA provides a temporary federal backstop for losses related to the writing of the terrorism peril in property casualty insurance policies. TRIA now is scheduled to expire December 31, 2014. Under regulations promulgated under this statute, insurers are required to offer terrorism coverage for certain lines of property casualty insurance, including property, commercial multi peril, fire, ocean marine, inland marine, liability, aircraft and workers compensation. In the event of a terrorism event defined by TRIA, the federal government would reimburse terrorism claim payments subject to the insurers deductible. The deductible is calculated as a percentage of subject written premiums for the preceding calendar year. Our deductible in 2009 was $383 million (20 percent of 2008 subject premiums), and we estimate it is $369 million (20 percent of 2009 subject premiums) in 2010. Reinsurance protection for the companys surety business is covered under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, which began issuing insurance policies in 2008, has separate property and casualty reinsurance treaties for 2010 through Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation. Primary components of the treaties include: Property per risk treaty The property treaty provides limits up to $5 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. We retain the first $1 million of any policy loss. Losses between $1 million and $5 million are reinsured at 100 percent. Page 80 Casualty treaties The casualty treaties are written on a quota share basis and provide limits up to $5 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. The maximum exposure for any one casualty loss is $1 million. Basket retention The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company has purchased this coverage to limit our retention to $1 million in the event that the same occurrence results in both a property and a casualty loss. Property catastrophe treaty As a subsidiary of The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company has been added as a named insured under our corporate property catastrophe treaty. All terms and conditions of this treaty apply to policies underwritten by The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company. For property or casualty risks with limits exceeding $5 million, underwriters place facultative reinsurance coverage on an individual certificate basis. The combined property and casualty treaty provides protection on a participating basis for extra contractual obligations, as well as exposure to losses in excess of policy limits. The limit is $5 million for both property and casualty. Cincinnati Life, our life insurance subsidiary, purchases reinsurance under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. In 2005, we modified our reinsurance protection for our term life insurance business due to changes in the marketplace that affected the cost and availability of reinsurance for term life insurance. We are retaining no more than a $500,000 exposure, ceding the balance using excess over retention mortality coverage, and retaining the policy reserve. Retaining the policy reserve has no direct impact on GAAP results. However, because of the conservative nature of statutory reserving principles, retaining the policy reserve unduly depresses our statutory earnings and requires a large commitment of our capital. We also have catastrophe reinsurance coverage on our life insurance operations that reimburses us for covered net losses in excess of $9 million. Our recovery is capped at $75 million for losses involving our associates. For term life insurance business written prior to 2005, we retain 10 percent to 25 percent of each term policy, not to exceed $500,000, ceding the balance of mortality risk and policy reserve. Safe Harbor Statement This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 23. Although we often review or update our forward looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to risk concentrations, changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes Increased frequency and or severity of claims Inadequate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates Recession or other economic conditions resulting in lower demand for insurance products or increased payment delinquencies Delays in adoption and implementation of underwriting and pricing methods that could increase our pricing accuracy, underwriting profit and competitiveness Inability to defer policy acquisition costs for any business segment if pricing and loss trends would lead management to conclude that segment could not achieve sustainable profitability Declines in overall stock market values negatively affecting the companys equity portfolio and book value Events, such as the credit crisis, followed by prolonged periods of economic instability or recession, that lead to: o Significant or prolonged decline in the value of a particular security or group of securities and impairment of the asset(s) o Significant decline in investment income due to reduced or eliminated dividend payouts from a particular security or group of securities o Significant rise in losses from surety and director and officer policies written for financial institutions Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the companys ability to generate growth in investment income or interest rate fluctuations that result in declining values of fixed maturity investments, including declines in accounts in which we hold bank owned life insurance contract assets Increased competition that could result in a significant reduction in the companys premium volume Page 81 Changing consumer insurance buying habits and consolidation of independent insurance agencies that could alter our competitive advantages Inability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased, financial strength of reinsurers and the potential for non payment or delay in payment by reinsurers Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the companys relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the companys opportunities for growth, such as: o Multi notch downgrades of the companys financial strength ratings o Concerns that doing business with the company is too difficult o Perceptions that the companys level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace o Delays or inadequacies in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements Actions of insurance departments, state attorneys general or other regulatory agencies, including a change to a federal system of regulation from a state based system, that: o Restrict our ability to exit or reduce writings of unprofitable coverages or lines of business o Place the insurance industry under greater regulatory scrutiny or result in new statutes, rules and regulations o Increase our expenses o Add assessments for guaranty funds, other insurance related assessments or mandatory reinsurance arrangements; or that impair our ability to recover such assessments through future surcharges or other rate changes o Limit our ability to set fair, adequate and reasonable rates o Place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace o Restrict our ability to execute our business model, including the way we compensate agents Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings Events or actions, including unauthorized intentional circumvention of controls, that reduce the companys future ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 Unforeseen departure of certain executive officers or other key employees due to retirement, health or other causes that could interrupt progress toward important strategic goals or diminish the effectiveness of certain longstanding relationships with insurance agents and others Events, such as an epidemic, natural catastrophe or terrorism, that could hamper our ability to assemble our workforce at our headquarters location Difficulties with technology or data security breaches could negatively affect our ability to conduct business and our relationships with agents, policyholders and others Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as recent measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Introduction Market risk is the potential for a decrease in securities value resulting from broad yet uncontrollable forces such as: inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions or other widespread unpredictable events. It is comprised of many individual risks that, when combined, create a macroeconomic impact. The company accepts and manages risks in the investment portfolio as part of the means of achieving portfolio objectives. Some of the risks are: Political the potential for a decrease in value due to the real or perceived impact of governmental policies or conditions Regulatory the potential for a decrease in value due to the impact of legislative proposals or changes in laws or regulations Page 82 Economic the potential for a decrease in value due to changes in general economic factors (recession, inflation, deflation, etc.) Revaluation the potential for a decrease in value due to a change in relative value (change in market multiple) of the market brought on by general economic factors Interest rate the potential for a decrease in value of a security or portfolio due to its sensitivity to changes (increases or decreases) in the general level of interest rates Company specific risk the potential for a particular issuer to experience a decline in value due to the impact of sector or market risk on the holding or because of issues specific to the firm Fraud the potential for a negative impact on an issuers performance due to actual or alleged illegal or improper activity of individuals it employs Credit the potential for deterioration in an issuers financial profile due to specific company issues, problems it faces in the course of its operations or industry related issues Default the possibility that an issuer will not make a required payment (interest payment or return of principal) on its debt. Generally this occurs after its financial profile has deteriorated (credit risk) and it no longer has the means to make its payments The investment committee of the board of directors monitors the investment risk management process primarily through its executive oversight of our investment activities. We take an active approach to managing market and other investment risks, including the accountabilities and controls over these activities. Actively managing these market risks is integral to our operations and could require us to change the character of future investments purchased or sold or require us to shift the existing asset portfolios to manage exposure to market risk within acceptable ranges. Sector risk is the potential for a negative impact on a particular industry due to its sensitivity to factors that make up market risk. Market risk affects general supply/demand factors for an industry and affects companies within that industry to varying degrees. Risks associated with the five asset classes described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 18, can be summarized as follows (H high, A average, L low): Taxable fixed maturities Tax exempt fixed maturities Common equities Preferred equities Short term investments Political A H A A L Regulatory A A A A L Economic A A H A L Revaluation A A H A L Interest rate H H A H L Fraud A L A A L Credit A L A A L Default A L A A L Fixed Maturity Investments For investment grade corporate bonds, the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices leads to falling bond values during periods of increasing interest rates. We address this risk by attempting to construct a generally laddered maturity schedule that allows us to reinvest cash flows at prevailing rates. Although the potential for a worsening financial condition, and ultimately default, does exist with investment grade corporate bonds, we address this risk by performing credit analysis and monitoring as well as maintaining a diverse portfolio of holdings. The primary risk related to high yield corporate bonds is credit risk or the potential for a deteriorating financial structure. A weak financial profile can lead to rating downgrades from the credit rating agencies, which can put further downward pressure on bond prices. Interest rate risk, while significant, is less of a factor with high yield corporate bonds, as valuation is related more directly to underlying operating performance than to general interest rates. This puts more emphasis on the financial results achieved by the issuer rather than on general economic trends or statistics within the marketplace. We address this concern by analyzing issuer and industry specific financial results and by closely monitoring holdings within this asset class. The primary risks related to tax exempt bonds are interest rate risk and political risk associated with the specific economic environment within the political boundaries of the issuing municipal entity. We address these concerns by focusing on municipalities general obligation debt and on essential service bonds. Essential service bonds derive a revenue stream from municipal services that are vital to the people living in the area (water service, sewer service, etc.). Another risk related to tax exempt bonds is regulatory risk or the potential for legislative changes that would negate the benefit of owning tax exempt bonds. We monitor regulatory activity for situations that may negatively affect current holdings and our ongoing strategy for investing in these securities. Page 83 The final, less significant risk is our exposure to credit risk for a portion of the tax exempt portfolio that has support from corporate entities. Examples are bonds insured by corporate bond insurers or bonds with interest payments made by a corporate entity through a municipal conduit/authority. Our decisions regarding these investments primarily consider the underlying municipal situation. The existence of third party insurance is intended to reduce risk in the event of default. In circumstances in which the municipality is unable to meet its obligations, risk would be increased if the insuring entity were experiencing financial duress. Because of our diverse exposure and selection of higher rated entities with strong financial profiles, we do not believe this is a material concern as we discuss in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 18. Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Because of our strong surplus, long term investment horizon and ability to hold most fixed maturity investments to maturity, we believe the company is well positioned if interest rates were to rise. A higher rate environment would provide the opportunity to invest cash flow in higher yielding securities, while reducing the likelihood of untimely redemptions of currently callable securities. While higher interest rates would be expected to continue to increase the number of fixed maturity holdings trading below 100 percent of book value, we believe lower fixed maturity security values due solely to interest rate changes would not signal a decline in credit quality. Our dynamic financial planning model uses analytical tools to assess market risks. As part of this model, the effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio is continually monitored by our investment department to evaluate the theoretical impact of interest rate movements. The table below summarizes the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates on the fixed maturity portfolio: Interest Rate Shift in Basis Points (In millions) 200 100 0 100 200 At December 31, 2009 $ 8,705 $ 8,279 $ 7,855 $ 7,428 $ 7,024 At December 31, 2008 $ 6,467 $ 6,143 $ 5,827 $ 5,506 $ 5,202 The effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio was 5.3 years at year end 2009, compared with 5.4 years at year end 2008. A 100 basis point movement in interest rates would result in an approximately 5.3 percent change in the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio. Generally speaking, the higher a bond is rated, the more directly correlated movements in its fair value are to changes in the general level of interest rates, exclusive of call features. The fair values of average to lower rated corporate bonds are additionally influenced by the expansion or contraction of credit spreads. In the dynamic financial planning model, the selected interest rate change of 100 to 200 basis points represents our views of a shift in rates that is quite possible over a one year period. The rates modeled should not be considered a prediction of future events as interest rates may be much more volatile in the future. The analysis is not intended to provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in rates on our results or financial condition, nor does it take into account any actions that we might take to reduce exposure to such risks. Short Term Investments Our short term investments consist primarily of commercial paper, demand notes or bonds purchased within one year of maturity. We make short term investments primarily with funds to be used to make upcoming cash payments, such as taxes. At year end 2009, short term investments included $5 million that was frozen in The Reserves Primary Fund. This amount was received in early 2010. Equity Investments Common stocks are subject to a variety of risk factors encompassed under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying industries and companies within those industries. As we saw in 2008, a downturn in the economy can have a negative effect on an equity portfolio. Industry and company specific risks also have the potential to substantially affect the value of our portfolio. We implemented new investment guidelines in 2008 to help address these risks by diversifying the portfolio and establishing parameters to help manage exposures. Our equity holdings represented $2.701 billion in fair value and accounted for approximately 66.8 percent of the unrealized appreciation of the entire portfolio at year end 2009. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 18, for additional details on our holdings. The primary risks related to preferred stocks are similar to those related to investment grade corporate bonds. Falling interest rates adversely affect market values due to the normal inverse relationship between rates and yields. Credit risk exists due to the subordinate position of preferred stocks in the capital structure. We minimize this risk by primarily purchasing investment grade preferred stocks of issuers with a strong history of paying a common stock dividend. Page 84 Application Of Asset Impairment Policy As discussed in Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 42, our fixed maturity and equity investment portfolios are evaluated differently for other than temporary impairments. The companys asset impairment committee monitors a number of significant factors for indications that the value of investments trading below the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of our impairment policy resulted in other than temporary impairment charges that reduced our income before income taxes by $131 million in 2009, $510 million in 2008 and $16 million in 2007. Impairments are discussed in Item 7, Investment Results of Operations, Page 64. We expect the number of securities trading below 100 percent of book value to fluctuate as interest rates rise or fall and credit spreads expand or contract due to prevailing economic conditions. Further, book values for some securities have been revised due to impairment charges recognized in prior periods. At year end 2009, 355 of the 2,505 securities we owned were trading below 100 percent of book value compared with 944 of the 2,233 securities we owned at year end 2008 and 373 of the 2,053 securities we owned at year end 2007. The 355 holdings trading below book value at year end 2009 represented 16.8 percent of invested assets and $84 million in unrealized losses. 311 of these holdings were trading between 90 percent and 100 percent of book value. The value of these securities fluctuates primarily because of changes in interest rates. The fair value of these 311 securities was $1.613 billion at year end 2009, and they accounted for $51 million in unrealized losses. 35 of these holdings were trading between 70 percent and 90 percent of book value. The fair value of these holdings was $168 million, and they accounted for $30 million in unrealized losses. These securities, which are being closely monitored, have been affected by a combination of factors including wider credit spreads driven primarily by the distress in the mortgage market, slumping real estate valuations, the effects of a slowing economy and the effects of higher interest rates on longer duration instruments. The majority of these securities are in the financial related sectors. 9 securities, all fixed maturity, were trading below 70 percent of book value at year end 2009. The fair value of these holdings was $5 million, and they accounted for $3 million in unrealized losses. The real estate sector accounted for 63 percent and the financial sector for 37 percent of the unrealized losses. The issuers of these debt instruments are current on contractual payments and we believe that future contractual amounts are likely to be paid. The following table summarizes the length of time securities in the investment portfolio have been in a continuous unrealized gain or loss position. (In millions) Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total At December 31, Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses 2009 Fixed maturities: States, municipalities and political subdivisions $ 196 $ 4 $ 29 $ 2 $ 225 $ 6 Government sponsored enterprises 347 7 347 7 Short term investments 1 1 Collateralized mortgage obligations 27 6 27 6 Corporate bonds 397 19 309 17 706 36 Total 941 30 365 25 1,306 55 Equity securities 65 3 415 26 480 29 Total $ 1,006 $ 33 $ 780 $ 51 $ 1,786 $ 84 At December 31, 2008 Fixed maturities: States, municipalities and political subdivisions $ 592 $ 26 $ 94 $ 5 $ 686 $ 31 Convertibles and bonds with warrants attached 195 15 38 5 233 20 Government sponsored enterprises 141 2 141 2 All other corporate bonds and short term investments 1,367 215 254 68 1,621 283 Total 2,295 258 386 78 2,681 336 Equity securities 820 219 79 41 899 260 Total $ 3,115 $ 477 $ 465 $ 119 $ 3,580 $ 596 Page 85 The following table summarizes the investment portfolio: (Dollars in millions) Number of issues Book value Fair value Gross unrealized gain/loss Gross investment income At December 31, 2009 Taxable fixed maturities: Trading below 70% of book value 9 $ 8 $ 5 $ (3 ) $ 1 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 257 1,213 1,165 (48 ) 55 Trading at 100% and above of book value 849 3,423 3,693 270 204 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 19 Total 1,115 4,644 4,863 219 279 Tax exempt fixed maturities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 76 139 135 (4 ) 6 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,236 2,731 2,857 126 118 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 2 Total 1,312 2,870 2,992 122 126 Common equities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 7 477 452 (25 ) 16 Trading at 100% and above of book value 43 1,464 2,156 692 65 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 9 Total 50 1,941 2,608 667 90 Preferred equities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 5 32 28 (4 ) 2 Trading at 100% and above of book value 20 43 65 22 4 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 1 Total 25 75 93 18 7 Short term investments: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 1 1 1 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 2 5 5 0 0 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 0 Total 3 6 6 0 0 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 9 8 5 (3 ) 1 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 346 1,862 1,781 (81 ) 79 Trading at 100% and above of book value 2,150 7,666 8,776 1,110 391 Investment income on securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 31 Total 2,505 $ 9,536 $ 10,562 $ 1,026 $ 502 At December 31, 2008 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 83 $ 528 $ 322 $ (206 ) $ 25 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 861 3,648 3,258 (390 ) 176 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,279 4,043 5,227 1,184 290 Investment income on securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 39 Total 2,223 $ 8,219 $ 8,807 $ 588 $ 530 Page 86 
 
