Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The purpose of Managements Discussion and Analysis is to provide an understanding of Cincinnati Financial Corporations consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our Managements Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, Pages 34 and 35, and Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes, beginning on Page 105. We present per share data on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted, adjusting those amounts for all stock splits and stock dividends. We begin with an executive summary of our results of operations and outlook, as well as details on critical accounting policies and estimates. Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can give information on our performance within the context of the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M. Best, a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and financial strength rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Executive Summary Through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Financial Corporation is one of the 25 largest property casualty insurers in the nation, based on 2009 written premium volume for approximately 2,000 U.S. stock and mutual insurer groups. We market our insurance products through a select group of independent insurance agencies in 39 states as discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Page 3. Although recent years have been difficult for our economy, our industry and our company, our long term perspective lets us address the immediate challenges while focusing on the major decisions that best position the company for success through all market cycles. We believe that this forward looking view has consistently benefited our shareholders, agents, policyholders and associates. To measure our progress, we have defined a measure of value creation that we believe captures the contribution of our insurance operations, the success of our investment strategy and the importance we place on paying cash dividends to shareholders. We refer to this measure as our value creation ratio, or VCR, and it is made up of two primary components: (1) our rate of growth in book value per share plus (2) the ratio of dividends declared per share to beginning book value per share. For the period 2010 through 2014, an annual value creation ratio averaging 12 percent to 15 percent is our primary performance target. Management believes this non GAAP measure is a useful supplement to GAAP information. With heightened economic and market uncertainty since 2008, we believe the long term nature of this ratio is an appropriate way to measure our long term progress in creating shareholder value. One Three year Five year year % average % average Value creation ratio as of December 31, 2010 11.1 % 2.4 % 3.7 % as of December 31, 2009 19.7 (3.2 ) 1.7 as of December 31, 2008 (23.5 ) (4.2 ) (1.3 ) When looking at our longer term objectives, we see three performance drivers: Premium growth We believe over any five year period our agency relationships and initiatives can lead to a property casualty written premium growth rate that exceeds the industry average. The compound annual growth rate of our net written premiums was negative 0.7 percent over the five year period 2006 through 2010, slightly lower than the negative 0.5 percent estimated growth rate for the property casualty insurance industry. Combined ratio We believe our underwriting philosophy and initiatives can generate a GAAP combined ratio over any five year period that is consistently below 100 percent. Our GAAP combined ratio has averaged 98.3 percent over the five year period 2006 through 2010. Our combined ratio was below 100 percent in 2006 and 2007, but was above 100 percent for 2008 through 2010, when we averaged 102.3 percent, including an average catastrophe loss ratio that was 2.1 percentage points higher than the average for the 10 year period prior to 2008. Performance as measured by the combined ratio is discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49 . Our statutory combined ratio averaged 98.2 percent over the five year period 2006 through 2010 compared with an estimated 99.5 percent for the property casualty industry. 36 Investment contribution We believe our investment philosophy and initiatives can drive investment income growth and lead to a total return on our equity investment portfolio over a five year period that exceeds the five year return of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. o Investment income growth, on a before tax basis, declined at a compound annual rate of 0.3 percent over the five year period 2006 through 2010. It grew in each year except 2008 and 2009, when we experienced a dramatic reduction in dividend payouts by financial services companies held in our equity portfolio, a risk we addressed aggressively during 2008, completing that effort in early 2009. o Over the five years ended December 31, 2010, our compound annual equity portfolio return was a negative 3.0 percent compared with a compound annual total return of 2.3 percent for the Index. Our equity portfolio underperformed the market for the five year period primarily because of the 2008 decline in the market value of our previously large holdings in the financial services sector. For the year 2010, our compound annual equity portfolio return was 11.0 percent, compared with 15.1 percent for the Index, as the broad market rally did not favor the higher quality, dividend paying stocks we prefer. The board of directors is committed to rewarding shareholders directly through cash dividends and through authorizing share repurchases. The board also has periodically declared stock dividends and splits. Through 2010, the company has increased the indicated annual cash dividend rate for 50 consecutive years, a record we believe is matched by only 10 other publicly traded companies. The board regularly evaluates relevant factors in dividend related decisions, and the increase reflects confidence in our strong capital, liquidity and financial flexibility, as well as progress through our initiatives to improve earnings performance. We discuss our financial position in more detail in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Page 78 . Strategic Initiatives Highlights Management has worked to identify a strategy that can lead to long term success, with concurrence by the board of directors. Our strategy is intended to position us to compete successfully in the markets we have targeted while appropriately managing risk. We discuss our long term, proven strategy in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Page 3. We believe successful implementation of initiatives that support our strategy will help us better serve our agent customers and reduce volatility in our financial results while we also grow earnings and book value over the long term, successfully navigating challenging economic, market or industry pricing cycles. Improve insurance profitability Implementation of these initiatives is intended to improve pricing capabilities for our property casualty business, increasing our ability to manage our business while also enhancing our efficiency. Improved pricing capabilities through the use of technology and analytics can lead to better profit margins. Improved planning for growth and profitability plans can enhance our ability to achieve objectives at all levels in the organization. Improved internal processes with additional performance metrics can help us be more efficient and effective. These initiatives also support the ability of the agencies that represent us to grow profitably by allowing them to serve clients faster and to more efficiently manage agency expenses. Drive premium growth Implementation of these initiatives is intended to further penetrate each market we serve through our independent agency network. Strategies aimed at specific market opportunities, along with service enhancements, can help our agents grow and increase our share of their business. Diversified growth also may reduce variability of losses from weather related catastrophes. We discuss these strategic initiatives, along with related metrics to assess progress, in Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 9 , Factors Influencing Our Future Performance In 2010, our value creation ratio of 11.1 percent was slightly below our target annual average of 12 percent to 15 percent for the period 2010 through 2014. In 2009, the ratio exceeded our target and in 2008, it was below our target, as discussed in the review of our financial highlights below. For the year 2011, we believe our value creation ratio may be below our long term target for several reasons. The rally in financial markets during 2009 and 2010 had a highly favorable impact on our value creation ratio, offsetting much of the unfavorable impact of the sharp decline in financial markets during 2008. Should financial markets decline during 2011, which could occur as part of typical market volatility patterns, the related component of our 2011 value creation ratio could also register a weak or negative result. Lingering effects of soft insurance market pricing are expected to affect growth rates and earned premium levels into 2011 and for some time into the future, depending on insurance market conditions. Current conditions continue to weaken loss ratios and hamper near term profitability. Economic factors, including inflation, may increase our claims and settlement expenses related to medical care, litigation and construction. 37 The slowly recovering economy is expected to continue to affect policyholders by minimizing growth in value of their business and personal insurable assets. Until the economy significantly strengthens, we may experience only modest premium growth for the property casualty industry or our commercial lines segment, which represented approximately 73 percent of our 2010 property casualty net written premiums. Property casualty written premium growth also may lag as some of our growth initiatives require more time to reach their full contribution. We will incur the cost of continued investment in our business, including technology, recent entry in new states and process initiatives to create long term value. In addition, we will not see the full advantage of many of these investments for several years. Our view of the value we can create over the next five years relies on two assumptions about the external environment. First, we anticipate some firming of commercial insurance pricing by the end of 2011. Second, we assume that the economy can continue on a growth track during 2011. If those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, we may not be able to achieve our performance targets even if we accomplish our strategic objectives. Other factors that could influence our ability to achieve our target include: We expect the insurance marketplace to remain competitive, which is likely to cause carriers to pursue strategies that they believe could lead to economies of scale, market share gains or the potential for an improved competitive posture. We expect the independent insurance agency system to remain strong and viable, with continued agency consolidation, especially as agency margins come under more pressure due to soft pricing and the difficult economic environment. The soft commercial market that has extended into 2011 creates additional risk for agencies. We expect the soft market to continue for much of 2011, or perhaps longer, particularly in non catastrophe event prone states and lines of business, absent a significant event or events. We expect initiatives that make it easier for agents to do business with us will continue to be a significant factor in agency relationships, with technology being a major driver. Policyholders will increasingly demand online services and access from agents or carriers. We discuss in our Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 24, many potential risks to our business and our ability to achieve our qualitative and quantitative objectives. These are real risks, but their probability of occurring may not be high. We also believe that our risk management programs generally could mitigate their potential effects, in the event they would occur. We continue to study emerging risks, including climate change risk and its potential financial effects on our results of operation and those we insure. These effects include deterioration in credit quality of our municipal or corporate bond portfolios and increased losses without sufficient corresponding increases in premiums. As with any risk, we seek to identify the extent of the risk exposure and possible actions to mitigate potential negative effects of risk, at an enterprise level. We have formal risk management programs overseen by a senior officer and supported by a team of representatives from business areas. The team provides reports to our chairman, our president and chief executive officer and our board of directors, as appropriate, on risk assessments, risk metrics and risk plans. Our use of operational audits, strategic plans and departmental business plans, as well as our culture of open communications and our fundamental respect for our Code of Conduct, continue to help us manage risks on an ongoing basis. Below we review highlights of our financial results for the past three years. Detailed discussion of these topics appears in Results of Operations, Page 48, and Liquidity and Capital Resources, Page 78. 38 Corporate Financial Highlights The value creation ratio discussed in the Executive Summary, Page 36, was 11.1 percent in 2010, 19.7 percent in 2009 and negative 23.5 percent in 2008. The book value per share growth component of the value creation ratio was 5.7 percent during 2010 and 13.6 percent during 2009, largely reflecting improved valuation of our investment portfolio in addition to earnings. In 2008, a decline in unrealized gains on our investment portfolio was the most significant factor in the 27.9 percent decline in book value. Net income declined 13 percent in 2010 after growing 1 percent in 2009, reflecting lower realized investment gains. In 2008, net income was down 47 percent. Cash dividends declared per share rose approximately 1 percent in 2010, 1 percent in 2009 and 10 percent in 2008. Balance Sheet Data (Dollars in millions except share data) At December 31, At December 31, 2010 2009 Balance sheet data Invested assets $ 11,508 $ 10,643 Total assets 15,095 14,440 Short term debt 49 49 Long term debt 790 790 Shareholders equity 5,032 4,760 Book value per share 30.91 29.25 Debt to total capital ratio 14.3 % 15.0 % Invested assets grew significantly during both 2010 and 2009 primarily due to strong performance in the financial markets, reversing the trend of 2008 from lower fair values for portfolio investments, largely due to economic factors. Entering 2011, the portfolio continues to be well diversified and we believe it is well positioned to withstand short term fluctuations. We discuss our investment strategy in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 19, and results for the segment in Investment Results of Operations, Page 75. Our ratio of debt to total capital (debt plus shareholders equity) decreased in both 2010 and 2009 and is comfortably within our target range. Income Statement and Per Share Data (Dollars in millions except share data) Twelve months ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Income statement data Earned premiums $ 3,082 $ 3,054 $ 3,136 1 (3 ) Investment income, net of expenses (pretax) 518 501 537 3 (7 ) Realized investment gains and losses (pretax) 159 336 138 (53 ) 143 Total revenues 3,772 3,903 3,824 (3 ) 2 Net income 377 432 429 (13 ) 1 Per share data Net income diluted $ 2.31 $ 2.65 $ 2.62 (13 ) 1 Cash dividends declared 1.59 1.57 1.56 1 1 Weighted average shares outstanding 163,274,491 162,866,863 163,362,409 0 0 Net income in 2010 was $55 million or 13 percent lower than in 2009, due primarily to the after tax effects of net realized investment gains that were $114 million lower, partially offset by a $53 million improvement from property casualty underwriting results plus $9 million growth in investment income. Net income increased $3 million in 2009, reflecting the after tax net effect of three major contributing items: a $132 million increase from net realized investment gains, partially offset by a $48 million decrease from investment income and a $74 million decrease from property casualty underwriting results. Weighted average shares outstanding may fluctuate from period to period due to repurchases of shares under board authorizations or issuance of shares through equity compensation plans. Weighted average shares outstanding on a diluted basis increased by less than 1 million in 2010, after declining by less than 1 million in 2009 and by 9 million in 2008. As discussed in Investment Results of Operations, Page 75, security sales led to realized investment gains in all three years, although 2008 gains were tempered by $510 million in other than temporary impairment (OTTI) charges. Realized investment gains and losses are integral to our financial results over the long term. We have substantial discretion in the timing of investment sales and, therefore, the gains or losses that are recognized in any period. That discretion generally is independent of the insurance underwriting process. Also, applicable accounting standards require us to recognize gains and losses from certain changes in fair values of securities and for securities with embedded derivatives without actual realization of those gains and losses. 39 Higher interest income drove 3 percent growth in 2010 pretax investment income. Lower income from common stock dividends led to a 7 percent decline in 2009 pretax net investment income, improving on a 12 percent decline for 2008, which was the first decline for this measure in company history. The primary reason for the decline was dividend reductions by common and preferred holdings, including reductions during the year on positions sold or reduced. Contribution from Insurance Operations (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Consolidated property casualty highlights Net written premiums $ 2,963 $ 2,911 $ 3,010 2 (3 ) Earned premiums 2,924 2,911 3,010 0 (3 ) Underwriting loss (47 ) (128 ) (16 ) 63 nm Pt. Change Pt. Change GAAP combined ratio 101.7 % 104.5 % 100.6 % (2.8 ) 3.9 Statutory combined ratio 101.8 104.4 100.4 (2.6 ) 4.0 Written premium to statutory surplus 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.0 (0.1 ) Property casualty written premiums grew 2 percent in 2010, reversing the trend of 3 percent declines in both 2009 and 2008. Earned premiums also reversed the prior year trend, growing slightly in 2010. Trends and related factors discussed in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations, beginning on Page 54, Page 64 and Page 70, respectively. Our property casualty insurance operations reported an underwriting loss in each of the last three years, but the amount of loss in 2010 was less than half that of 2009. We measure property casualty underwriting profitability primarily by the combined ratio. Our combined ratio measures the percentage of each earned premium dollar spent on claims plus all expenses related to our property casualty operations. A lower ratio indicates more favorable results and better underlying performance. Our combined ratio was over 100 percent in each of the last three years. Initiatives to improve our combined ratio are discussed in Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 9. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, favorable development on reserves for claims that occurred in prior accident years helped offset other incurred loss and loss expenses. Reserve development is discussed further in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, beginning on Page 82. Losses from weather related catastrophes are another important item influencing the combined ratio and are discussed along with other factors in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations, beginning on Page 54, Page 64 and Page 70, respectively. Our life insurance segment continued to provide a consistent source of profit. We discuss results for the segment in Life Insurance Results of Operations, Page 73. Investment income and realized investment gains from the life insurance investment portfolio are included in Investments segment results. Critical Accounting Estimates Cincinnati Financial Corporations financial statements are prepared using GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 105 In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the companys critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting policies, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may be appropriate. 40 Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our property casualty insurance business as balance sheet liabilities. These reserves account for unpaid loss and loss expenses as of a financial statement date. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are the estimated amounts necessary to pay for and settle all outstanding insured claims, including incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims, as of that date. For some lines of business that we write, a considerable and uncertain amount of time can elapse between the occurrence, reporting and payment of insured claims. The amount we will actually have to pay for such claims also can be highly uncertain. This uncertainty, together with the size of our reserves, makes the loss and loss expense reserves our most significant estimate. Gross loss and loss expense reserves were $4.137 billion at year end 2010 compared with $4.096 billion at year end 2009. How Reserves Are Established Our field claims representatives establish case reserves when claims are reported to the company to provide for our unpaid loss and loss expense obligation associated with individual claims. Field claims managers supervise and review all claims with case reserves less than $35,000. Experienced headquarters claims supervisors review individual case reserves greater than $35,000 that were established by field claims representatives. Headquarters claims managers also review case reserves greater than $100,000. Our claims representatives base their case reserve estimates primarily upon case by case evaluations that consider: type of claim involved circumstances surrounding each claim policy provisions pertaining to each claim potential for subrogation or salvage recoverable general insurance reserving practices Case reserves of all sizes are subject to review on a 90 day cycle, or more frequently if new information about a loss becomes available. As part of the review process, we monitor industry trends, cost trends, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional loss exposures. We also establish IBNR reserves to provide for all unpaid loss and loss expenses not accounted for by case reserves: For weather events designated as catastrophes, we calculate IBNR reserves directly as a result of an estimated IBNR claim count and an estimated average claim amount for each event. Once case reserves are established for a weather event we reduce the IBNR reserves. Our claims department management coordinates the assessment of these events and prepares the related IBNR reserve estimates. Such an assessment involves a comprehensive analysis of the nature of the storm, of policyholder exposures within the affected geographic area and of available claims intelligence. Depending on the nature of the event, available claims intelligence could include surveys of field claims associates within the affected geographic area, feedback from a catastrophe claims team sent into the area, as well as data on claims reported as of the financial statement date. We generally use the catastrophe definition provided by Property Claims Service (PCS), a division of Insurance Services Office (ISO). PCS defines a catastrophe as an event that causes countrywide damage of $25 million or more in insured property losses and affects a significant number of policyholders and insureds. For asbestos and environmental claims, we calculate IBNR reserves by deriving an actuarially based estimate of total unpaid loss and loss expenses. We then reduce the estimate by total case reserves. We discuss the reserve analysis that applies to asbestos and environmental reserves in Asbestos and Environmental Reserves, Page 84. For all other claims and events, IBNR reserves are calculated as the difference between an actuarial estimate of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred reduced by the sum of total loss and loss expense payments and total case reserves estimated for individual claims. We discuss below the development of actuarially based estimates of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred. Our actuarial staff applies significant judgment in selecting models and estimating model parameters when preparing reserve analyses. In addition, unpaid loss and loss expenses are inherently uncertain as to timing and amount. Uncertainties relating to model appropriateness, parameter estimates and actual loss and loss expense amounts are referred to as model, parameter and process uncertainty, respectively. Our management and actuarial staff address these uncertainties in the reserving process in a variety of ways. 41 Our actuarial staff bases its IBNR reserve estimates for these losses primarily on the indications of methods and models that analyze accident year data. Accident year is the year in which an insured claim, loss, or loss expense occurred. The specific methods and models that our actuaries have used for the past several years are: paid and reported loss development methods paid and reported loss Bornhuetter Ferguson methods individual and multiple probabilistic trend family models Our actuarial staff uses diagnostics provided by stochastic reserving software to evaluate the appropriateness of the models and methods listed above. The softwares diagnostics have indicated that the appropriateness of these models and methods for estimating IBNR reserves for our lines of business tends to depend on a lines tail. Tail refers to the time interval between a typical claims occurrence and its settlement. For our long tail lines such as workers compensation and commercial casualty, models from the probabilistic trend family tend to provide superior fits and to validate well compared with models underlying the loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. The loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, particularly the reported loss variations, tend to produce the more appropriate IBNR reserve estimates for our short tail lines such as homeowner and commercial property. For our mid tail lines such as personal and commercial auto liability, all models and methods provide useful insights. Our actuarial staff also devotes significant time and effort to the estimation of model and method parameters. The loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods require the estimation of numerous loss development factors. The Bornhuetter Ferguson methods also involve the estimation of numerous ultimate loss ratios by accident year. Models from the probabilistic trend family require the estimation of development trends, calendar year inflation trends and exposure levels. Consequently, our actuarial staff monitors a number of trends and measures to gain key business insights necessary for exercising appropriate judgment when estimating the parameters mentioned. These trends and measures include: company and industry pricing company and industry exposure company and industry loss frequency and severity past large loss events such as hurricanes company and industry premium company in force policy count These trends and measures also support the estimation of ultimate accident year loss ratios needed for applying the Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and for assessing the reasonability of all IBNR reserve estimates computed. Our actuarial staff reviews these trends and measures quarterly, updating parameters derived from them as necessary. Quarterly, our actuarial staff summarizes its reserve analysis by preparing an actuarial best estimate and a range of reasonable IBNR reserves intended to reflect the uncertainty of the estimate. An inter departmental committee that includes our actuarial management team reviews the results of each quarterly reserve analysis. The committee establishes managements best estimate of IBNR reserves, which is the amount that is included in each periods financial statements. In addition to the information provided by actuarial staff, the committee also considers factors such as the following: large loss activity and trends in large losses new business activity judicial decisions general economic trends such as inflation trends in litigiousness and legal expenses product and underwriting changes changes in claims practices The determination of managements best estimate, like the preparation of the reserve analysis that supports it, involves considerable judgment. Changes in reserving data or the trends and factors that influence reserving data may signal fundamental shifts or may simply reflect single period anomalies. Even if a change reflects a fundamental shift, the full extent of the change may not become evident until years later. Moreover, since our methods and models do not explicitly relate many of the factors we consider directly to reserve levels, we typically cannot quantify the precise impact of such factors on the adequacy of reserves prospectively or retrospectively. 42 Due to the uncertainties described above, our ultimate loss experience could prove better or worse than our carried reserves reflect. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and increased, the amount of the increase is a charge in the period that the deficiency is recognized, raising our loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. To the extent that reserves are redundant and released, the amount of the release is a credit in the period that the redundancy is recognized, reducing our loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings. Key Assumptions Loss Reserving Our actuarial staff makes a number of key assumptions when using their methods and models to derive IBNR reserve estimates. Appropriate reliance on these key assumptions essentially entails determinations of the likelihood that statistically significant patterns in historical data may extend into the future. The four most significant of the key assumptions used by our actuarial staff and approved by management are: Emergence of loss and allocated loss expenses on an accident year basis. Historical paid loss, reported loss and paid allocated loss expense data for the business lines we analyze contain patterns that reflect how unpaid losses, unreported losses and unpaid allocated loss expenses as of a financial statement date will emerge in the future on an accident year basis. Unless our actuarial staff or management identifies reasons or factors that invalidate the extension of historical patterns into the future, these patterns can be used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. Our actuaries significantly rely on this assumption in the application of all methods and models mentioned above. Calendar year inflation. For long tail and mid tail business lines, calendar year inflation trends for future paid losses and paid allocated loss expenses will not vary significantly from a stable, long term average. Our actuaries base reserve estimates derived from probabilistic trend family models on this assumption. Exposure levels. Historical earned premiums, when adjusted to reflect common levels of product pricing and loss cost inflation, can serve as a proxy for historical exposures. Our actuaries require this assumption to estimate expected loss ratios and expected allocated loss expense ratios used by the Bornhuetter Ferguson reserving methods. They also use this assumption to establish exposure levels for recent accident years, characterized by green or immature data, when working with probabilistic trend family models. Claims having atypical emergence patterns. Characteristics of certain subsets of claims, such as high frequency, high severity, or mass tort claims, have the potential to distort patterns contained in historical paid loss, reported loss and paid allocated loss expense data. When testing indicates this to be the case for a particular subset of claims, our actuaries segregate these claims from the data and analyze them separately. Subsets of claims that could fall into this category include hurricane claims, individual large claims and asbestos and environmental claims. These key assumptions have not changed since 2005, when our actuarial staff began using probabilistic trend family models to estimate IBNR reserves. Paid losses, reported losses and paid allocated loss expenses are subject to random as well as systematic influences. As a result, actual paid losses, reported losses and paid allocated loss expenses are virtually certain to differ from projections. Such differences are consistent with what specific models for our business lines predict and with the related patterns in the historical data used to develop these models. As a result, management does not closely monitor statistically insignificant differences between actual and projected data. Reserve Estimate Variability Management believes that the standard error of a reserve estimate, a measure of the estimates variability, provides the most appropriate measure of the estimates sensitivity. The reserves we establish depend on the models we use and the related parameters we estimate in the course of conducting reserve analyses. However, the actual amount required to settle all outstanding insured claims, including IBNR claims, as of a financial statement date depends on stochastic, or random, elements as well as the systematic elements captured by our models and estimated model parameters. For the lines of business we write, process uncertainty the inherent variability of loss and loss expense payments typically contributes more to the imprecision of a reserve estimate than parameter uncertainty. Consequently, a sensitivity measure that ignores process uncertainty would provide an incomplete picture of the reserve estimates sensitivity. Since a reserve estimates standard error accounts for both process and parameter uncertainty, it reflects the estimates full sensitivity to a range of reasonably likely scenarios. The table below provides standard errors and reserve ranges by property casualty line of business and in total for loss and loss expense reserves as well as the potential effects on our net income, assuming a 35 percent federal tax rate. Standard errors and reserve ranges for assorted groupings of these lines of 43 business cannot be computed by simply adding the standard errors and reserve ranges of the component lines of business, since such an approach would ignore the effects of product diversification. See Range of Reasonable Reserves, Page 83, for more details on our total reserve range. While the table reflects our assessment of the most likely range within which each lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses may fall, one or more lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges. (In millions) Net loss and loss expense range of reserves Carried Low High Standard Net income reserves point point error effect At December 31, 2010 Total $ 3,811 $ 3,571 $ 3,952 Commercial casualty $ 1,644 $ 1,455 $ 1,781 $ 163 $ 106 Commercial property 155 136 176 20 13 Commercial auto 356 336 376 20 13 Workers compensation 1,010 906 1,079 87 57 Personal auto 153 145 161 8 5 Homeowners 105 95 114 9 6 At December 31, 2009 Total $ 3,661 $ 3,459 $ 3,774 Commercial casualty $ 1,605 $ 1,459 $ 1,691 $ 116 $ 75 Commercial property 115 93 136 21 14 Commercial auto 374 355 393 19 12 Workers compensation 975 887 1,035 74 48 Personal auto 154 146 161 8 5 Homeowners 89 80 98 9 6 If actual unpaid loss and loss expenses fall within these ranges, our cash flow and fixed maturity investments should provide sufficient liquidity to make the subsequent payments. To date, our cash flow has covered our loss and loss expense payments, and we have never had to sell investments to make these payments. If this were to become necessary, however, our fixed maturity investments should provide us with ample liquidity. At year end 2010, consolidated fixed maturity investments exceeded total insurance reserves (including life policy reserves) by $2.149 billion. Life Insurance Policy Reserves We establish the reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions. We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments. Asset Impairment Our fixed maturity and equity investment portfolios are our largest assets. The companys asset impairment committee continually monitors the holdings in these portfolios and all other assets for signs of other than temporary or permanent impairment. The committee monitors significant decreases in the fair value of invested assets, an accumulation of costs in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset, uncollectability of all receivable assets, or other factors such as bankruptcy, deterioration of creditworthiness, failure to pay interest or dividends, signs indicating that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or changes in legal factors or in the business climate. The application of our impairment policy resulted in OTTI charges that reduced our income before income taxes by $36 million in 2010, $131 million in 2009 and $510 million in 2008. Impairment charges are recorded for other than temporary declines in value, if, in the asset impairment committees judgment, the value is not expected to be recouped within a designated recovery period. OTTI losses represent non cash charges to income and are reported as realized investment losses. Our investment portfolio managers monitor their assigned portfolios. If a security is trading below book value, the portfolio managers undertake additional reviews. Such declines often occur in conjunction with events 44 taking place in the overall economy and market, combined with events specific to the industry or operations of the issuing organization. Managers review quantitative measurements such as a declining trend in fair value, the extent of the fair value decline and the length of time the value of the security has been depressed, as well as qualitative measures such as pending events, credit ratings and issuer liquidity. We are even more proactive when these declines in valuation are greater than might be anticipated when viewed in the context of overall economic and market conditions. We provide information about valuation of our invested assets in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 111. All securities valued below 100 percent of book value are reported to the asset impairment committee for evaluation. Securities valued between 95 percent and 100 percent of book value are reviewed but not monitored separately by the committee. When evaluating for OTTI, the committee considers the companys intent and ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover its cost. Because of the companys financial strength and other factors discussed below, management may not impair certain securities even when they are trading below book value. When determining OTTI charges for our fixed maturity portfolio, management places significant emphasis on whether issuers of debt are current on contractual payments and whether future contractual amounts are likely to be paid. Our fixed maturity invested asset impairment policy states that OTTI is considered to have occurred (1) if we intend to sell the impaired fixed maturity security; (2) if it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis; or (3) the present value of the expected cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis. If we intend to sell or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell, the book value of any such securities is reduced to fair value as the new cost basis, and a realized loss is recorded in the quarter in which it is recognized. When we believe that full collection of interest and or principal is not likely, we determine the net present value of future cash flows by using the effective interest rate implicit in the security at the date of acquisition as the discount rate and compare that amount to the amortized cost and fair value of the security. The difference between the net present value of the expected future cash flows and amortized cost of the security is considered a credit loss and recognized as a realized loss in the quarter in which it occurred. The difference between the fair value and the net present value of the cash flows of the security, the non credit loss, is recognized in other comprehensive income as an unrealized loss. When determining OTTI charges for our equity portfolio, our invested asset impairment policy considers qualitative and quantitative factors, including facts and circumstances specific to individual securities, asset classes, the financial condition of the issuer, changes in dividend payment, the length of time fair value had been less than book value, the severity of the decline in fair value below book value, the volatility of the security and our ability and intent to hold each position until its forecasted recovery. For each of our equity securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2010, we applied the objective quantitative and qualitative criteria of our invested asset impairment policy for OTTI. Our long term equity investment philosophy, emphasizing companies with strong indications of paying and growing dividends, combined with our strong surplus, liquidity and cash flow, provide us the ability to hold these investments through what we believe to be slightly longer recovery periods occasioned by the recession and historic levels of market volatility. Based on the individual qualitative and quantitative factors, as discussed above, we evaluate and determine an expected recovery period for each security. A change in the condition of a security can warrant impairment before the expected recovery period. If the security has not recovered cost within the expected recovery period, the security is impaired. Securities that have previously been impaired are evaluated based on their adjusted book value and written down further, if deemed appropriate. We provide detailed information about securities trading in a continuous loss position at year end 2010 in Item 7A, Application of Asset Impairment Policy, Page 96. An other than temporary decline in the fair value of a security is recognized in net income as a realized investment loss. Securities considered to have a temporary decline would be expected to recover their book value, which may be at maturity. Under the same accounting treatment as fair value gains, temporary declines (changes in the fair value of these securities) are reflected in shareholders equity on our balance sheet in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), net of tax, and have no impact on net income. 45 Fair Value Measurements Valuation of Financial Instruments Valuation of financial instruments, primarily securities held in our investment portfolio, is a critical component of our year end financial statement preparation. Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, ASC 820 10, defines fair value as the exit price or the amount that would be (1) received to sell an asset or (2) paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between marketplace participants at the measurement date. When determining an exit price, we must, whenever possible, rely upon observable market data. Prior to the adoption of ASC 820 10, we considered various factors such as liquidity and volatility but primarily obtained pricing from various external services, including broker quotes. The fair value measurement and disclosure exit price notion requires our valuation also to consider what a marketplace participant would pay to buy an asset or receive to assume a liability. Therefore, while we can consider pricing data from outside services, we ultimately determine whether the data or inputs used by these outside services are observable or unobservable. In accordance with ASC 820 10, we have categorized our financial instruments, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three level fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as described in Item 8, Note 3, Fair Value Measurements, Page 114. Level 1 and Level 2 Valuation Techniques Over 99 percent of the $11.424 billion of securities in our investment portfolio measured at fair value are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Financial assets that fall within Level 1 and Level 2 are priced according to observable data from identical or similar securities that have traded in the marketplace. Also within Level 2 are securities that are valued by outside services or brokers where we have evaluated the pricing methodology and determined that the inputs are observable. Level 3 Valuation Techniques Financial assets that fall within the Level 3 hierarchy are valued based upon unobservable market inputs, normally because they are not actively traded on a public market. Level 3 corporate fixed maturity securities include certain private placements, small issues, general corporate bonds and medium term notes. Level 3 state, municipal and political subdivisions fixed maturity securities include various thinly traded municipal bonds. Level 3 preferred equities include private and thinly traded preferred securities. Pricing for each Level 3 security is based upon inputs that are market driven, including third party reviews provided to the issuer or broker quotes. However, we placed in the Level 3 hierarchy securities for which we were unable to obtain the pricing methodology or we could not consider the price provided as binding. Pricing for securities classified as Level 3 could not be corroborated by similar securities priced using observable inputs. Management ultimately determined the pricing for each Level 3 security that we considered to be the best exit price valuation. As of December 31, 2010, total Level 3 assets were less than 1 percent of our investment portfolio measured at fair value. Broker quotes are obtained for thinly traded securities that subsequently fall within the Level 3 hierarchy. We have generally obtained two non binding quotes from brokers and, after evaluating, our investment professionals typically selected the lower quote as the fair value. Employee Benefit Pension Plan We have a defined benefit pension plan that was modified during 2008; refer to Item 8, Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 121, for additional information. Contributions and pension costs are developed from annual actuarial valuations. These valuations involve key assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets and compensation increase rates, which are updated annually. Any adjustments to these assumptions are based on considerations of current market conditions. Therefore, changes in the related pension costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in assumptions. Key assumptions used in developing the 2010 net pension obligation for our qualified plan were a 5.85 percent discount rate and rates of compensation increases ranging from 3.50 percent to 5.50 percent. Key assumptions used in developing the 2010 net pension expense for our qualified plan were a 6.10 percent discount rate, an 8.00 percent expected return on plan assets and rates of compensation increases ranging from 4.00 percent to 6.00 percent. See Note 13, Page 121 for additional information on assumptions. 46 In 2010, the net pension expense was $12 million. In 2011, we expect the net pension expense to be $13 million. Holding all other assumptions constant, a 0.5 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would decrease our 2011 income before income taxes by $1 million. A 0.5 percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would decrease our 2011 income before income taxes by $1 million. The fair value of the plan assets was $30 million less than the accumulated benefit obligation at year end 2010 and $42 million less at year end 2009. The fair value of the plan assets was $62 million less than the projected plan benefit obligation at year end 2010 and $77 million less at year end 2009. Market conditions and interest rates significantly affect future assets and liabilities of the pension plan. On February 1, 2011, we contributed $35 million to our qualified plan. Deferred Acquisition Costs We establish a deferred asset for costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, acquiring property casualty and life insurance business. These costs are principally agent commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting costs, which are deferred and amortized into net income as premiums are earned. Deferred acquisition costs track with the change in premiums. Underlying assumptions are updated periodically to reflect actual experience. Changes in the amounts or timing of estimated future profits could result in adjustments to the accumulated amortization of these costs. For property casualty policies, deferred acquisition costs are amortized over the terms of the policies. We assess recoverability of deferred acquisition costs at the segment level, consistent with the ways we acquire, service, manage and measure profitability. Our property casualty insurance operations consist of three segments, commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines. For life insurance policies, acquisition costs are amortized into income either over the premium paying period of the policies or the life of the policy, depending on the policy type. We analyze our acquisition cost assumptions periodically to reflect actual experience; we evaluate our deferred acquisition cost for recoverability; and we regularly conduct reviews for potential premium deficiencies or loss recognition. Contingent Commission Accrual Another significant estimate relates to our accrual for property casualty contingent (profit sharing) commissions. We base the contingent commission accrual estimate on property casualty underwriting results. Contingent commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account agency profitability, premium volume and other factors, such as prompt monthly payment of amounts due to the company. Due to the complexity of the calculation and the variety of factors that can affect contingent commissions for an individual agency, the amount accrued can differ from the actual contingent commissions paid. The contingent commission accrual of $77 million in 2010 contributed 2.6 percentage points to the property casualty combined ratio. If contingent commissions paid were to vary from that amount by 5 percent, it would affect 2011 net income by $3 million (after tax), or 2 cents per share, and the combined ratio by approximately 0.1 percentage points. Separate Accounts We issue life contracts referred to as bank owned life insurance policies (BOLI). Based on the specific contract provisions, the assets and liabilities for some BOLIs are legally segregated and recorded as assets and liabilities of the separate accounts. Other BOLIs are included in the general account. For separate account BOLIs, minimum investment returns and account values are guaranteed by the company and also include death benefits to beneficiaries of the contract holders. Separate account assets are carried at fair value. Separate account liabilities primarily represent the contract holders claims to the related assets and are carried at an amount equal to the contract holders account value. Generally, investment income and realized investment gains and losses of the separate accounts accrue directly to the contract holders and, therefore, are not included in our Consolidated Statements of Income. However, each separate account contract includes a negotiated realized gain and loss sharing arrangement with the company. This share is transferred from the separate account to our general account and is recognized as revenue or expense. In the event that the asset value of contract holders accounts is projected below the value guaranteed by the company, a liability is established through a charge to our earnings. For our most significant separate account, written in 1999, realized gains and losses are retained in the separate account and are deferred and amortized to the contract holder over a five year period, subject to certain limitations. Upon termination or maturity of this separate account contract, any unamortized deferred gains and or losses will revert to the general account. In the event this separate account holder were to exchange the contract for the policy of another carrier in 2011, the account holder would not pay a surrender charge. The surrender charge is zero for 2011 and beyond. 47 At year end 2010, net unamortized realized losses amounted to $2 million. In accordance with this separate account agreement, the investment assets must meet certain criteria established by the regulatory authorities to whose jurisdiction the group contract holder is subject. Therefore, sales of investments may be mandated to maintain compliance with these regulations, possibly requiring gains or losses to be recorded and charged to the general account. Potentially, losses could be material; however, unrealized losses are approximately $7 million before tax in the separate account portfolio, which had a book value of $583 million at year end 2010. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information about recent accounting pronouncements is provided in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 105. We have determined that recent accounting pronouncements have not had nor are they expected to have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results of our five reporting segments. These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of assets. Commercial lines property casualty insurance Personal lines property casualty insurance Excess and surplus lines property casualty insurance Life insurance Investments We report as Other the non investment operations of the parent company and its non insurer subsidiary, CFC Investment Company. We measure profit or loss for our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus property casualty and life insurance segments based upon underwriting results (profit or loss), which represent net earned premium less loss and loss expenses and underwriting expenses on a pretax basis. We also frequently evaluate results for our consolidated property casualty insurance operations, which is the total of our commercial, personal, and excess and surplus insurance results. Underwriting results and segment pretax operating income are not substitutes for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. For our consolidated property casualty insurance operations as well as the insurance segments, statutory accounting data and ratios are key performance indicators that we use to assess business trends and to make comparisons to industry results, since GAAP based industry data generally is not as readily available. Investments held by the parent company and the investment portfolios for the insurance subsidiaries are managed and reported as the investments segment, separate from the underwriting businesses. Net investment income and net realized investment gains and losses for our investment portfolios are discussed in the Investment Results of Operations. The calculations of segment data are described in more detail in Item 8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 127. The following sections review results of operations for each of the five segments. Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 54, Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 64, Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 70, Life Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 73, and Investment Results of Operations begins on Page 75. We begin with an overview of our consolidated property casualty operations. 48 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations Our consolidated property casualty operations grew earned premiums slightly in 2010 and lowered its underwriting loss, reversing the lower revenue and deteriorating profitability trends of 2008 and 2009. While soft market conditions persisted for commercial lines, our largest operating segment, several profit improvement and premium growth initiatives began to be evident in results for 2010. In addition to the factors discussed in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations, beginning on Page 54, Page 64 and Page 70, respectively, overall growth and profitability for our consolidated property casualty insurance operations were affected by a number of common factors. Targeted growth, seeking to grow premiums where we believe profit margins are acceptable, has been an area of strategic focus in recent years. Development and use of enhanced technology has also been emphasized, helping us to grow premiums as agencies embrace greater ease of use of our policy administration software. Better technology also can improve efficiency for agencies and associates, helping to lower expenses. Careful expense management, spending more in areas of strategic importance and trimming costs in other areas, kept the 2010 expense ratio flat. Slightly lower losses from weather related catastrophes and a slowly recovering economy also benefited our operating results. The table below highlights property casualty results of operations, with analysis and discussion in the sections that follow. Overview Three Year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 2,924 $ 2,911 $ 3,010 0 (3 ) Fee revenues 4 3 3 33 0 Total premiums and fee revenues 2,928 2,914 3,013 0 (3 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 2,154 2,102 2,174 2 (3 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 165 172 205 (4 ) (16 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (287 ) (181 ) (321 ) (59 ) 44 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (17 ) (7 ) (2 ) (143 ) (250 ) Total loss and loss expenses 2,015 2,086 2,056 (3 ) 1 Underwriting expenses 960 956 973 0 (2 ) Underwriting loss $ (47 ) $ (128 ) $ (16 ) 63 nm Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 73.6 % 72.2 % 72.2 % 1.4 0.0 Current accident year catastrophe losses 5.6 5.9 6.8 (0.3 ) (0.9 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (9.8 ) (6.2 ) (10.7 ) (3.6 ) 4.5 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.5 ) (0.2 ) 0.0 (0.3 ) (0.2 ) Total loss and loss expenses 68.9 71.7 68.3 (2.8 ) 3.4 Underwriting expenses 32.8 32.8 32.3 0.0 0.5 Combined ratio 101.7 % 104.5 % 100.6 % (2.8 ) 3.9 Combined ratio: 101.7 % 104.5 % 100.6 % (2.8 ) 3.9 Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (4.7 ) (0.5 ) (3.9 ) (4.2 ) 3.4 Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 106.4 % 105.0 % 104.5 % 1.4 0.5 Performance highlights for consolidated property casualty operations include: Premiums Higher 2010 renewal and new business written premiums were driven by growth in our personal lines and excess and surplus lines segments. Changes in written and earned premiums over the past three years generally reflected intense price competition partially offset by fairly stable policy retention rates for renewal business and growth in new business. New business written premiums increased in each of the past three years, largely due to the contribution of new agency appointments in both new and existing states of operation; the contribution of our excess and surplus lines business; and more competitive personal lines pricing that included net rate increases since late 2009. Other written premiums primarily include premiums ceded to our reinsurers as part of our reinsurance program. The table below analyzes premium revenue components and trends. Premium trends by segment are further discussed beginning on Page 12, Page 15 and Page 16, for the respective property casualty segments. 49 (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 2,692 $ 2,665 $ 2,828 1 (6 ) Agency new business written premiums 414 405 368 2 10 Other written premiums (143 ) (159 ) (186 ) 10 15 Net written premiums 2,963 2,911 3,010 2 (3 ) Unearned premium change (39 ) 0 0 nm nm Earned premiums $ 2,924 $ 2,911 $ 3,010 0 (3 ) Combined ratio The 2010 combined ratio improved 2.8 percentage points to 101.7 percent, lowering the 2009 underwriting loss by more than half. The 1.4 percentage point increase in the ratio for current accident year losses and loss expenses was offset by a larger benefit from net favorable reserve development on prior accident years and lower catastrophe losses. Components of the combined ratio are discussed below, followed by additional discussion by segment. Our statutory combined ratio was 101.8 percent in 2010 compared with 104.4 percent in 2009 and 100.4 percent in 2008. As a comparison, the estimated property casualty industry combined ratio was 103.0 percent in 2010, 101.2 percent in 2009 and 105.1 percent in 2008. Catastrophe losses contributed 5.1 percentage points to the combined ratio in 2010, down 0.6 points from 2009. Catastrophe losses in 2008 contributed 6.8 percentage points, the highest catastrophe loss ratio for our company since 1991, largely due to Hurricane Ike. Our 10 year historical annual average contribution of catastrophe losses to the combined ratio was 4.4 percentage points as of December 31, 2010. The following table shows catastrophe losses incurred, net of reinsurance, for the past three years, as well as the effect of loss development on prior period catastrophe reserves. 50 Catastrophe Losses Incurred (In millions, net of reinsurance) Excess Commercial Personal and surplus Dates Cause of loss Region lines lines lines Total 2010 Jan. 7 12 Freezing, wind South, Midwest $ 4 $ 1 $ $ 5 Feb. 9 11 Ice, snow, wind East, Midwest 4 1 5 Apr. 4 6 Flood, hail, tornado, wind South, Midwest 4 6 10 Apr. 30 May 3 Flood, hail, tornado, wind South 21 6 27 May 7 8 Hail, tornado, wind East, Midwest 2 12 14 May 12 16 Flood, hail, tornado, wind South, Midwest 7 2 9 Jun. 4 6 Flood, hail, tornado, wind Midwest 2 2 1 5 Jun. 17 20 Flood, hail, tornado, wind Midwest, West 5 3 8 Jun. 21 24 Flood, hail, tornado, wind Midwest 2 3 5 Jun. 25 28 Flood, hail, tornado, wind Midwest 3 5 8 Jun. 30 Jul. 1 Hail, wind West 4 4 8 Jul. 20 23 Flood, hail, tornado, wind Midwest 12 4 16 Oct. 4 6 Flood, hail, wind South 6 1 7 Oct. 26 28 Flood, hail, tornado, wind Midwest 6 4 10 All other 2010 catastrophes 19 9 28 Development on 2009 and prior catastrophes (12 ) (5 ) (17 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 89 $ 58 $ 1 $ 148 2009 Jan. 26 28 Flood, freezing, ice, snow South, Midwest $ 5 $ 14 $ $ 19 Feb. 10 13 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 13 25 38 Feb. 18 19 Hail, wind South 1 8 9 Apr. 9 11 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 13 21 34 May 7 9 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 9 13 22 Jun. 2 6 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 3 4 7 Jun. 10 18 Flood, hail, wind South, Midwest 7 4 11 Sep. 18 22 Flood, hail, wind South 3 4 7 Other 2009 catastrophes 12 13 25 Development on 2008 and prior catastrophes (12 ) 5 (7 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 54 $ 111 $ $ 165 2008 Jan. 4 9 Flood, freezing, hail, wind South, Midwest $ 4 $ 2 $ $ 6 Jan. 29 30 Hail, wind Midwest 5 4 9 Feb. 5 6 Flood, hail, wind Midwest 5 8 13 Mar. 15 16 Hail, wind South 2 8 10 Apr. 9 11 Flood, hail, wind South 17 2 19 May 1 Hail, wind South 5 1 6 May 10 12 Flood, hail, wind South, Mid Atlantic 3 4 7 May 22 26 Hail, wind Midwest 4 3 7 May 29 Jun 1 Flood, hail, wind Midwest 4 4 8 Jun. 2 4 Flood, hail, wind Midwest 6 4 10 Jun. 5 8 Flood, hail, wind Midwest 8 6 14 Jun. 11 12 Flood, hail, wind Midwest 10 4 14 Jul. 26 Flood, hail, wind Midwest 1 7 8 Sep. 12 14 Hurricane Ike South, Midwest 22 36 58 Other 2008 catastrophes 10 6 16 Development on 2007 and prior catastrophes (3 ) 1 (2 ) Calendar year incurred total $ 103 $ 100 $ $ 203 51 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the three year highlights table on Page 49 are for the respective current accident years, and reserve development on prior accident years is shown separately. Since less than half of our consolidated property casualty current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid losses, the majority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 78.1 percent accident year 2009 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2009, developed favorably by 6.5 percentage points to 71.6 percent due to settling claims for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2010. Accident years 2009 and 2008 have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 2,319 $ 2,084 $ 2,148 79.2 % 71.6 % 71.4 % as of December 31, 2009 2,274 2,224 78.1 73.9 as of December 31, 2008 2,379 79.0 Catastrophe loss trends, discussed above, explain some of the accident year loss and loss expenses trend for years 2008 through 2010. Catastrophe losses added 5.6 for 2010, 5.9 for 2009 and 6.8 percentage points for 2008 to the respective consolidated property casualty accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. The trend for our current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years reflected normal loss cost inflation as well as softer pricing for much of our property casualty business that began in 2005 and continued through 2010. Refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year, totaling $69 million, contributed 2.3 percentage points to the 2008 ratio. Reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2010, as $304 million was recognized, similar to $323 million in 2008. During 2009, the $188 million of net favorable development recognized was lower, due primarily to unfavorable development of $48 million for our workers compensation line of business, as discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 85. Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Losses by Size (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $ 49 $ 57 $ 46 (14 ) 24 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 142 147 169 (3 ) (13 ) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 200 212 228 (6 ) (7 ) Case reserve development above $250,000 178 265 245 (33 ) 8 Total large losses incurred 569 681 688 (16 ) (1 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 935 860 845 9 2 Catastrophe losses 148 165 203 (10 ) (19 ) Total losses incurred $ 1,652 $ 1,706 $ 1,736 (3 ) (2 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: New losses greater than $4,000,000 1.7 % 2.0 % 1.5 % (0.3 ) 0.5 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 4.8 5.1 5.6 (0.3 ) (0.5 ) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 6.8 7.3 7.6 (0.5 ) (0.3 ) Case reserve development above $250,000 6.1 9.0 8.1 (2.9 ) 0.9 Total large loss ratio 19.4 23.4 22.8 (4.0 ) 0.6 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 32.0 29.5 28.1 2.5 1.4 Catastrophe losses 5.1 5.7 6.8 (0.6 ) (1.1 ) Total loss ratio 56.5 % 58.6 % 57.7 % (2.1 ) 0.9 In 2010, total large losses incurred decreased by $112 million or 16 percent, helping to lower the corresponding ratio by 4.0 percentage points. Large loss trends are further analyzed in the segment discussion below. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs. Beginning in 2009, we raised the casualty treaty retention to $6 million from $5 million and raised the property treaty retention to $5 million from $4 million. 52 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Underwriting Expenses (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 544 $ 550 $ 555 (1 ) (1 ) Other underwriting expenses 402 389 403 3 (3 ) Policyholder dividends 14 17 15 (18 ) 13 Total underwriting expenses $ 960 $ 956 $ 973 0 (2 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 18.6 % 18.9 % 18.4 % (0.3 ) 0.5 Other underwriting expenses 13.7 13.3 13.4 0.4 (0.1 ) Policyholder dividends 0.5 0.6 0.5 (0.1 ) 0.1 Total underwriting expense ratio 32.8 % 32.8 % 32.3 % 0.0 0.5 Commission expenses include our profit sharing, or contingent commissions, which are primarily based on the profitability of an agencys business. The aggregate profit trend for agencies that earn these profit based commissions can differ from the aggregate profit trend for all agencies reflected in our consolidated property casualty results. In 2010, lower contingent commissions drove the lower ratio for property casualty commission expenses, and higher contingent commissions drove the increase in 2009. In 2010, non commission expenses were up $13 million or 3 percent, primarily due to a first quarter 2010 provision for matters involving prior years and related to Note 16, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, Page 125. The increase outpaced earned premiums, which grew less than 1 percent. In 2009, non commission expenses declined $14 million, primarily due to a change in our pension plan that added 0.5 percentage points to the 2008 non commission underwriting expense ratio. Discussions below of our property casualty insurance segments provide additional detail about our results. 53 Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations Overview Three Year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 2,154 $ 2,199 $ 2,316 (2 ) (5 ) Fee revenues 2 2 2 0 0 Total premiums and fee revenues 2,156 2,201 2,318 (2 ) (5 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 1,605 1,596 1,671 1 (4 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 101 66 106 53 (38 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (257 ) (135 ) (270 ) (90 ) 50 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (12 ) (12 ) (3 ) 0 (300 ) Total loss and loss expenses 1,437 1,515 1,504 (5 ) 1 Underwriting expenses 704 719 742 (2 ) (3 ) Underwriting profit (loss) $ 15 $ (33 ) $ 72 nm nm Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 74.5 % 72.5 % 72.1 % 2.0 0.4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 4.7 3.0 4.6 1.7 (1.6 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (11.9 ) (6.1 ) (11.7 ) (5.8 ) 5.6 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.6 ) (0.5 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.4 ) Total loss and loss expenses 66.7 68.9 64.9 (2.2 ) 4.0 Underwriting expenses 32.7 32.7 32.1 0.0 0.6 Combined ratio 99.4 % 101.6 % 97.0 % (2.2 ) 4.6 Combined ratio: 99.4 % 101.6 % 97.0 % (2.2 ) 4.6 Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (7.8 ) (3.6 ) (7.2 ) (4.2 ) 3.6 Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 107.2 % 105.2 % 104.2 % 2.0 1.0 Performance highlights for the commercial lines segment include: Premiums Pricing in the commercial lines marketplace again reflected very strong competition, driving modest declines for both renewal and new business premiums. Our commercial lines net written premium decrease for 2010 of 1 percent compared favorably with the estimated decline of 2 percent for the overall commercial lines industry, similar to the 2009 comparison when our decline of 6 percent was slightly better than the decrease estimated for the commercial lines segment of the industry at 8 percent. We believe our pace for new and renewal business in recent years is consistent with our agents practice of selecting and retaining accounts with manageable risk characteristics that support the lower prevailing prices. We also believe our favorable comparison to the industry in recent years reflects our premium growth initiatives and the advantages we achieve through our field focus, which provides us with quality intelligence on local market conditions. Our earned premiums declined in 2010 and 2009, following the pattern of our written premiums. Combined ratio For our commercial lines segment, the 2010 combined ratio improved 2.2 percentage points to 99.4 percent, and the segment generated a small underwriting profit. Modest increases in the ratios for catastrophes and current accident year losses and loss expenses were offset by a larger benefit from net favorable reserve development on prior accident years. That larger benefit was accounted for almost entirely by our workers compensation and commercial casualty lines of business. We continue to focus on sound underwriting fundamentals and obtaining adequate premiums for risks insured by each individual policy. Predictive analytics for better pricing precision have been used for our workers compensation line of business since the second half of 2009. We plan to deploy in 2011 similar tools for our commercial auto, general liability and commercial property lines. The small increase in the 2010 and 2009 ratios for current accident year before catastrophe losses largely reflects loss cost trends that outpaced earned premium trends. The ratio increase for 2009 was less than it would have been if 2008 had not included approximately $49 million, or 2.1 percentage points, from refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year. We discuss factors affecting the combined ratio and reserve development by line of business below. Our commercial lines statutory combined ratio was 99.6 percent in 2010 compared with 101.8 percent in 2009 and 96.6 percent in 2008. By comparison, the estimated industry commercial lines combined ratio was 108.5 percent in 2010, 103.0 percent in 2009 and 107.4 percent in 2008. Industry commercial lines estimates include mortgage and financial guaranty insurers, which saw a surge in 54 claims following the historically high level of mortgage defaults in 2008, driving an unusually high industry combined ratio for 2008. Commercial Lines Insurance Premiums (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 1,978 $ 2,013 $ 2,156 (2 ) (7 ) Agency new business written premiums 289 298 312 (3 ) (4 ) Other written premiums (112 ) (130 ) (157 ) 14 17 Net written premiums 2,155 2,181 2,311 (1 ) (6 ) Unearned premium change (1 ) 18 5 nm 260 Earned premiums $ 2,154 $ 2,199 $ 2,316 (2 ) (5 ) Due to the highly competitive commercial lines markets of several years, we have focused on leveraging our local relationships to benefit from the efforts of our agents and the teams that work with them. We seek to maintain appropriate pricing discipline for both new and renewal business as management emphasizes the importance of assessing account quality to our agencies and underwriters, for careful decisions on a case by case basis whether to write or renew a policy. Rate credits may be used to retain renewals of quality business and to earn new business, but we do so selectively in order to avoid commercial accounts that we believe have insufficient profit margins. In recent years we experienced that typically the larger the account, the higher the credits needed to write or retain it, with variations by geographic region and class of business. In addition to targeting adequate premium per exposure, we also pursue non pricing means of enhancing longer term profitability. Non pricing means have included deliberate reviews to assess each risk, determine limits of insurance and establish appropriate terms and conditions. We continue to adhere to our underwriting guidelines, to re underwrite books of business with selected agencies and to update policy terms and conditions, leveraging the local presence of our field staff. Our field marketing representatives continue to underwrite new business and meet with local agencies to reaffirm agreements regarding the extent of frontline renewal underwriting that agents will perform. Loss control, machinery and equipment and field claims representatives continue to conduct on site inspections. To assist underwriters, field claims representatives prepare full reports on their first hand observations of risk quality. In recent years, both renewal and new business premium volume reflected the effects of the economic slowdown in many regions, as exposures declined and policyholders became increasingly focused on reducing insurance costs and other expenses. Insured exposures for overall commercial lines were estimated to be down somewhat for the year 2010, but appeared to be flattening by the end of the year. For commercial accounts, we usually calculate general liability premiums based on sales or payroll volume, while we calculate workers compensation premiums based on payroll volume. A change in sales or payroll volume generally indicates a change in demand for a businesss goods or services, as well as a change in its exposure to risk. Policyholders who experience sales or payroll volume changes due to economic factors may also have other exposures requiring insurance, such as commercial auto or commercial property, in addition to general liability and workers compensation. Premium levels for these other types of coverages generally are not linked directly to sales or payroll volumes. In 2010, we estimated that policyholders with a contractor related ISO general liability code accounted for approximately 33 percent of our general liability premiums, which are included in the commercial casualty line of business, and that policyholders with a contractor related National Council on Compensation Insurance Inc. (NCCI) workers compensation code accounted for approximately 44 percent of our workers compensation premiums. The market seeking to insure contractors has been more adversely affected by the economic slowdown than some other markets. The 2 percent decline in 2010 agency renewal written premiums largely reflects pricing and exposure declines, while policy retention rates remained fairly stable. Our headquarters underwriters talk regularly with agents about renewal business. Our field teams are available to assist headquarters underwriters by conducting inspections and holding renewal review meetings with agency staff. These activities can help verify that a commercial account retains the characteristics that caused us to write the business initially. We measure average changes in commercial lines renewal pricing as the rate of change in renewal premium for the new policy period compared with the premium for the expiring policy period, assuming no change in the level of insured exposures or policy coverage between those periods for respective policies. For policies renewed during both 2010 and 2009, the typical pricing decline on average was in the low single digit range. For larger accounts, we typically experienced more significant premium declines and for smaller accounts we sometimes saw little if any premium change at renewal. The 2009 average represented an improvement from the mid single digit range average pricing decline experienced in 2008. In addition to pricing pressures, premiums resulting from audits that confirmed or adjusted premiums based on initial estimates of policyholder sales and payrolls affected premium trends in recent years. Written premiums from audits decreased $29 million and $5 million, respectively, for the years 2010 and 2009, 55 while earned premiums from audits decreased $40 million and $26 million. Compared with late 2009 and early 2010, premiums from audits by the end of 2010 represented only a slight drag, or unfavorable effect, on total commercial lines written and earned premiums, and we expect the effect to become favorable at some point in 2011. For new business, our field associates are frequently in our agents offices helping to judge the quality of each account, emphasizing the Cincinnati value proposition, calling on sales prospects with those agents, carefully evaluating risk exposure and providing their best quotes. Some of our new business comes from accounts that are not new to the agent. We believe these seasoned accounts tend to be priced more accurately than business that is less familiar to our agent because it was recently obtained from a competing agent. As we appoint new agencies who choose to move accounts to us, we report these accounts as new business to us. New business premium volume in recent years has been significantly influenced by new agency appointments. All agencies newly appointed since the beginning of 2009 generated commercial lines new business written premiums of $40 million during 2010, up $26 million from 2009, while all other agencies contributed the remaining $249 million, which was down 12 percent. Many of the recently appointed agencies are in Texas, which we entered in late 2008, or Colorado, which we entered in 2009. Those two states accounted for over 9 percent of the $289 million 2010 new business volume. On a net written premium basis, agencies in Texas and Colorado contributed $40 million of commercial lines volume during 2010, up $28 million from 2009. The size of the Texas insurance market, relative to most other states, represents significant potential for long term premium growth. The table below summarizes the Texas and Colorado agents contribution to our commercial lines new business and net written premiums. Net written premiums are earned over the term covered by insurance policies and are an important leading indicator of earned premium revenue trends. (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 Change Change % New business written premiums: Texas $ 19 $ 11 $ 8 73 Colorado 8 1 7 700 Subtotal 27 12 15 125 All other states 262 286 (24 ) (8 ) Total $ 289 $ 298 $ (9 ) (3 ) Net written premiums: Texas $ 30 $ 11 $ 19 173 Colorado 10 1 9 900 Subtotal 40 12 28 233 All other states 2,115 2,169 (54 ) (2 ) Total $ 2,155 $ 2,181 $ (26 ) (1 ) In both 2010 and 2009, other written premiums had less of a downward effect on commercial lines net written premiums compared with the prior year. Written premiums ceded to reinsurers were approximately the same for both years. Both 2010 and 2009 had a more favorable adjustment, compared with the prior year, for estimated premiums of policies in effect but not yet processed. The adjustment for estimated premiums had an immaterial effect on earned premiums. Commercial Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the three year highlights table above on Page 54 are for the respective current accident years, and reserve development on prior accident years is shown separately. Since less than half of our consolidated property casualty current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid losses, the majority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 75.5 percent accident year 2009 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2009, developed favorably by 8.0 percentage points to 67.5 percent due to settling claims for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2010. Accident years 2009 and 2008 for the commercial lines segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 1,706 $ 1,485 $ 1,582 79.2 % 67.5 % 68.3 % as of December 31, 2009 1,662 1,644 75.5 71.0 as of December 31, 2008 1,777 76.7 56 Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49, explain some of the movement in accident year loss and loss expense ratios among years 2008 through 2010. Catastrophe losses added 4.7 percentage points for 2010, 3.0 points for 2009 and 4.6 points for 2008 to the respective commercial lines accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. The trend for our commercial lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years reflected normal loss cost inflation as well as softer pricing that began in 2005 and continued through 2010, as discussed above in Commercial Lines Insurance Premiums. In addition, previously discussed refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year increased the 2008 ratio. Commercial lines reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2010, as $269 million was recognized, similar to $273 million in 2008. During 2009, the $147 million of net favorable development recognized was lower, due primarily to unfavorable development of workers compensation reserves totaling $48 million, including strengthening of reserves by $49 million in first half of the year, as discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Commercial Lines of Business Analysis, Page 58. Most of the commercial lines reserve development on prior accident years reported in years 2008 through 2010 occurred in our commercial casualty line of business. Development by line of business and other trends for commercial lines loss and loss expenses and the related ratios are further analyzed in Commercial Lines of Business Analysis, beginning on Page 58. Commercial Lines Insurance Losses by Size (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $ 44 $ 52 $ 41 (15 ) 27 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 120 130 153 (8 ) (15 ) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 148 164 184 (10 ) (11 ) Case reserve development above $250,000 164 245 229 (33 ) 7 Total large losses incurred 476 591 607 (19 ) (3 ) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 587 565 547 4 3 Catastrophe losses 89 54 103 65 (47 ) Total losses incurred $ 1,152 $ 1,210 $ 1,257 (5 ) (4 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: New losses greater than $4,000,000 2.0 % 2.4 % 1.8 % (0.4 ) 0.6 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 5.6 5.9 6.6 (0.3 ) (0.7 ) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 6.9 7.5 8.0 (0.6 ) (0.5 ) Case reserve development above $250,000 7.6 11.2 9.9 (3.6 ) 1.3 Total large loss ratio 22.1 27.0 26.3 (4.9 ) 0.7 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 27.3 25.7 23.4 1.6 2.3 Catastrophe losses 4.1 2.5 4.5 1.6 (2.0 ) Total loss ratio 53.5 % 55.2 % 54.2 % (1.7 ) 1.0 In 2010, total large losses incurred decreased by $115 million or 19 percent, helping to lower the corresponding ratio by 4.9 percentage points. The majority of the decrease was for claims related to general liability coverages, largely included in our commercial casualty line of business. The 2009 decline of $16 million or 3 percent for total large losses incurred was more than offset by a larger decline in commercial lines earned premiums, causing an increase in the ratio. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs. In 2009, we raised the casualty treaty retention to $6 million from $5 million and raised the property treaty retention to $5 million from $4 million. Commercial Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 391 $ 408 $ 417 (4 ) (2 ) Other underwriting expenses 299 294 310 2 (5 ) Policyholder dividends 14 17 15 (18 ) 13 Total underwriting expenses $ 704 $ 719 $ 742 (2 ) (3 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 18.2 % 18.6 % 18.0 % (0.4 ) 0.6 Other underwriting expenses 13.8 13.3 13.5 0.5 (0.2 ) Policyholder dividends 0.7 0.8 0.6 (0.1 ) 0.2 Total underwriting expense ratio 32.7 % 32.7 % 32.1 % 0.0 0.6 57 Commercial lines commission expenses as a percent of earned premium declined during 2010, primarily due to lower agency contingent commissions. Non commission underwriting expenses rose 2 percent in 2010 but were lower than the 2008 level. The 2010 ratio rose primarily due to lower earned premiums. Commercial Lines of Business Analysis Approximately 95 percent of our commercial lines premiums relate to accounts with coverages from more than one of our business lines. As a result, we believe that the commercial lines segment is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for each line. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of incurred loss and loss expenses and corresponding ratios over the most recent three accident years. Accident year data classifies losses according to the year in which the corresponding loss events occur, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, recorded or paid. For 2010, based on the total loss and loss expense ratio, commercial casualty, our largest line of business, continued to be highly profitable. Workers compensation and specialty packages had 2010 total loss and loss expense ratios significantly higher than we desired. As discussed below, we are taking actions to improve pricing and reduce loss costs to benefit future profitability trends. Commercial Casualty (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Commercial casualty: Net written premiums $ 686 $ 704 $ 764 (3 ) (8 ) Earned premiums 693 712 763 (3 ) (7 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 555 542 576 2 (6 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (186 ) (154 ) (257 ) (21 ) 40 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 369 $ 388 $ 319 (5 ) 22 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 80.1 % 76.2 % 75.4 % 3.9 0.8 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (26.9 ) (21.6 ) (33.7 ) (5.3 ) 12.1 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 53.2 % 54.6 % 41.7 % (1.4 ) 12.9 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 555 $ 437 $ 436 80.1 % 61.4 % 57.1 % as of December 31, 2009 542 488 76.2 63.9 as of December 31, 2008 576 75.4 Commercial casualty is our largest line of business and has in recent years maintained a very satisfactory total loss and loss expense ratio. The rate of decline in commercial casualty premiums slowed in 2010, despite ongoing pressure from market competition. Economic trends showed modest improvement during the year, causing corresponding changes in underlying insured exposures, particularly for general liability coverages where the premium amount is heavily influenced by economically driven measures of risk exposure such as sales volume. The 2010 calendar year total loss and loss expense ratio improved somewhat, largely due to a higher level, compared with 2009, of favorable development on prior accident year reserves. Factors contributing to the higher level of favorable prior accident year reserve development included a moderation in trend for future umbrella coverage payments and less volatility in the trend estimates for future commercial multiple peril payments. The 2010 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses deteriorated by 3.9 percentage points compared with accident year 2009, reflecting lower pricing per exposure and normal loss cost inflation. 58 Commercial Property (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Commercial property: Net written premiums $ 497 $ 485 $ 481 2 1 Earned premiums 489 485 487 1 0 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 286 257 282 11 (9 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 75 42 81 79 (48 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (3 ) (5 ) (7 ) 40 29 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (7 ) (11 ) (3 ) 36 (267 ) Total loss and loss expenses $ 351 $ 283 $ 353 24 (20 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 58.4 % 53.1 % 57.7 % 5.3 (4.6 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 15.4 8.8 16.6 6.6 (7.8 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (0.6 ) (1.1 ) (1.3 ) 0.5 0.2 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (1.4 ) (2.2 ) (0.4 ) 0.8 (1.8 ) Total loss and loss expense ratio 71.8 % 58.6 % 72.6 % 13.2 (14.0 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 361 $ 291 $ 349 73.8 % 60.2 % 71.6 % as of December 31, 2009 299 348 61.9 71.5 as of December 31, 2008 363 74.3 Commercial property is our second largest line of business. Net written premiums for 2010 were up, largely due to an $8 million or 14 percent increase in new business written premiums. The 2010 calendar year total loss and loss expense ratio was higher than the very profitable level of 2009, primarily due to higher catastrophe losses and large losses for fires and non catastrophe weather. The 2010 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses also was higher, compared with accident year 2009, due to higher large losses for fires and non catastrophe weather, in addition to lower pricing per exposure and normal loss cost inflation. In 2011 we plan to improve pricing precision for commercial property as we begin using predictive modeling tools. In addition, we have increased our loss control staff and are studying methods for improving the effectiveness of conducting property inspections for both new and renewal business. Commercial Auto (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Commercial auto: Net written premiums $ 385 $ 388 $ 402 (1 ) (3 ) Earned premiums 384 394 411 (3 ) (4 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 269 273 303 (1 ) (10 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 4 3 2 33 50 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (32 ) (20 ) (8 ) (60 ) (150 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (1 ) 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 240 $ 256 $ 297 (6 ) (14 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 70.0 % 69.2 % 73.7 % 0.8 (4.5 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 1.1 0.7 0.6 0.4 0.1 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (8.2 ) (5.0 ) (2.0 ) (3.2 ) (3.0 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.3 ) 0.0 0.0 (0.3 ) 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 62.6 % 64.9 % 72.3 % (2.3 ) (7.4 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 273 $ 253 $ 283 71.1 % 64.2 % 68.9 % as of December 31, 2009 276 292 69.9 71.0 as of December 31, 2008 305 74.3 The decline in commercial auto premiums over the three year period reflected the downward pressure exerted by the market on the pricing of commercial accounts. Commercial auto is one of the business lines that we renew and price annually, so market trends may be reflected for this line of business sooner than for other lines. Commercial auto also experiences pricing pressure because it often represents the largest portion of insurance costs for many commercial policyholder accounts. 59 The calendar year total loss and loss expense ratio improved during 2010 due to a higher amount of favorable development on prior accident year reserves. The ratio was at a profitable level for both 2009 and 2010. The 2010 accident year loss and loss expense ratio was up slightly compared with accident year 2009, as a lower level of large losses partially offset lower pricing per exposure and higher physical damage losses. Workers Compensation (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Workers compensation: Net written premiums $ 310 $ 323 $ 382 (4 ) (15 ) Earned premiums 311 326 375 (5 ) (13 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 331 355 342 (7 ) 4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (39 ) 48 (3 ) nm nm Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 292 $ 403 $ 339 (28 ) 19 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 106.5 % 108.8 % 91.1 % (2.3 ) 17.7 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (12.6 ) 14.7 (0.7 ) (27.3 ) 15.4 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 93.9 % 123.5 % 90.4 % (29.6 ) 33.1 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 331 $ 302 $ 335 106.5 % 92.4 % 89.3 % as of December 31, 2009 355 331 108.8 88.1 as of December 31, 2008 342 91.1 Workers compensation net written premiums for 2010 were down $13 million, largely due to an $8 million or 17 percent decrease in new business written premiums. Premiums resulting from audits of initially recorded premiums, based on policyholder payroll levels, also lowered net written premiums, reflecting the slow economy of recent years. Net written premiums declined sharply in 2009, primarily due to economically related lower insured exposures and more selective underwriting resulting in the non renewal of a number of policies in our worst pricing tiers. Since we pay a lower commission rate on workers compensation business, this line has a higher calendar year loss and loss expense breakeven point than our other commercial business lines. Nonetheless, the ratio was at an unprofitable level in each of the last three years, and management continues to work to improve financial performance for this line. During 2009, we began using a predictive modeling tool to improve risk selection and pricing adequacy. Predictive modeling increases pricing adequacy and precision so that our agents can better compete for the most desirable workers compensation business. We also added to our staff of loss control field representatives, premium audit field representatives and field claims representatives specializing in workers compensation risks. In early 2010, we implemented direct reporting of workers compensation claims, allowing us to quickly obtain detailed information to promptly assign the appropriate level of claims handling expertise to each case. Obtaining more information sooner for specific claims allows for medical care appropriate to the nature of each injury, benefiting injured workers, employers and agents while ultimately lowering overall loss costs. The workers compensation business line includes our longest tail exposures, making initial estimates of accident year loss and loss expenses incurred more uncertain. Due to the lengthy payout period of workers compensation claims, small shifts in medical cost inflation and payout periods could have a significant effect on our potential future liability compared with our current projections. The calendar year total loss and loss expense ratio improved during 2010 primarily due to $39 million of favorable development on prior accident year reserves. Most of the favorable reserve development was for accident year 2009; approximately half of the favorable development was for losses and the other half was for loss adjustment expenses related to reserves for our claims staff to settle outstanding claims. In 2009, we recognized $48 million in unfavorable reserve development on accident years 2005 and prior as discussed below. Our workers compensation reserve analyses completed during the first half of 2009 indicated that loss cost inflation was higher than previously estimated, leading us to make more conservative assumptions about future loss cost inflation when estimating loss reserves, thereby significantly increasing losses incurred. The higher estimates of loss cost inflation derived from analyses during 2009 affected reserves 60 estimated for many prior accident years, resulting in $48 million of net unfavorable development on prior accident year reserves. The 2010 accident year loss and loss expense ratio of 106.5 percent was down slightly from accident year 2009 of 108.8 percent estimated as of December 31, 2009. We believe the improvement is due to initiatives begun early in 2010 as mentioned above. Reserve development is further discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, beginning on Page 85. Specialty Packages (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Specialty packages: Net written premiums $ 149 $ 148 $ 145 1 2 Earned premiums 149 147 144 1 2 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 91 84 87 8 (3 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 22 21 23 5 (9 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 2 1 (3 ) 100 nm Prior accident years catastrophe losses (4 ) (1 ) (1 ) (300 ) 0 Total loss and loss expenses $ 111 $ 105 $ 106 6 (1 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 61.1 % 56.9 % 60.8 % 4.2 (3.9 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 14.5 14.2 15.6 0.3 (1.4 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 1.8 0.3 (2.5 ) 1.5 2.8 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (2.6 ) (0.8 ) (0.4 ) (1.8 ) (0.4 ) Total loss and loss expense ratio 74.8 % 70.6 % 73.5 % 4.2 (2.9 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 113 $ 105 $ 106 75.6 % 71.1 % 73.8 % as of December 31, 2009 105 106 71.1 73.9 as of December 31, 2008 110 76.4 Specialty packages premiums were up slightly over the three year period. The calendar year and accident year loss and loss expense ratios reflected a high level of catastrophe losses for each year in the three year period. Losses for 2010 also reflected a higher level of large losses for fires and non catastrophe weather, increasing both the calendar year and accident year ratios for 2010. In addition, pricing reductions and normal loss cost inflation continued to put upward pressure on the ratios. Our adverse loss experience has been primarily driven by our Religious Institutions Program as our other specialty programs have generally performed adequately. We are working to improve this program, including enhanced pricing precision through predictive models and greater attention as management of the program shifts to our Target Markets department. Improved pricing precision and additional loss control actions will be used later for the other programs in our Specialty Packages line of business as well. Surety and Executive Risk (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Surety and executive risk: Net written premiums $ 93 $ 101 $ 107 (8 ) (6 ) Earned premiums 95 104 107 (9 ) (3 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 64 76 71 (16 ) 7 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 3 (3 ) 7 nm nm Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 67 $ 73 $ 78 (8 ) (6 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 66.5 % 73.2 % 66.1 % (6.7 ) 7.1 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 3.4 (2.7 ) 6.5 6.1 (9.2 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 69.9 % 70.5 % 72.6 % (0.6 ) (2.1 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 64 $ 90 $ 63 66.5 % 86.7 % 59.0 % as of December 31, 2009 76 69 73.2 64.5 as of December 31, 2008 71 66.1 61 Surety and executive risk premiums declined in both 2010 and 2009, primarily due to our non renewal of many policies as we improved the quality of the financial institution portion of this book of business. Director and officer liability coverage accounted for 59.8 percent of surety and executive risk net written premiums in 2010 compared with 60.5 percent in 2009 and 63.0 percent in 2008. We have actively managed the potentially high risk of writing director and officer liability by: Marketing primarily to nonprofit organizations, which accounted for approximately 72 percent of the policies and 40 percent of the premium volume for director and officer liability new business written in 2010. Closely monitoring our for profit policyholders At year end 2010, our in force director and officer liability policies provided coverage to 13 non financial publicly traded companies, including two Fortune 1000 companies. We also provided this coverage to approximately 500 banks, savings and loans and other financial institutions. The majority of these financial institution policyholders are smaller community banks, and we believe they have no unusual exposure to credit market concerns, including subprime mortgages. Based on new policy data or information from the most recent policy renewal, only 15 of our bank and savings and loan policyholders have assets greater than $2 billion; only 23 have assets from $1 billion to $2 billion; and 54 have assets from $500 million to $1 billion. Writing on a claims made basis, which normally restricts coverage to losses reported during the policy term. Providing limits no higher than $10 million with facultative or treaty reinsurance in place in 2011 to cover losses greater than $6 million. The calendar year total loss and loss expense ratio improved during 2010 due to lower losses for accident year 2010 that were partially offset by unfavorable development on prior accident year reserves. The 2010 accident year loss and loss expense ratio improved compared with accident year 2009 due in part to a lower level of large losses. Both the calendar year and current accident year loss and loss expense ratios for 2009 were relatively high, primarily due to director and officer large losses from claims related to prior lending practices at financial institutions. To address the potential risk inherent in the financial institutions book of our surety and executive risk business line moving forward, we continue to work with our agents to limit the number of new director and officer policies for financial institutions, in addition to using credit rating and other metrics to carefully re underwrite in force policies when they are considered for renewal. Machinery and Equipment (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Machinery and equipment: Net written premiums $ 35 $ 32 $ 30 9 7 Earned premiums 33 31 29 6 7 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 9 9 11 0 (18 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (2 ) (2 ) 1 0 nm Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 7 $ 7 $ 12 0 (42 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 28.2 % 26.9 % 36.1 % 1.3 (9.2 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.3 0.9 (0.3 ) (0.6 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (6.0 ) (5.8 ) 5.5 (0.2 ) (11.3 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.3 ) 0.2 0.0 (0.5 ) 0.2 Total loss and loss expense ratio 21.9 % 21.6 % 42.5 % 0.3 (20.9 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 9 $ 7 $ 10 28.2 % 23.3 % 33.2 % as of December 31, 2009 9 10 27.2 35.6 as of December 31, 2008 11 37.0 Machinery and equipment premiums continued to rise over the three year period, reflecting our superior service, including experienced specialist who support agencies in writing this line of business. The calendar year and accident year loss and loss expense ratios were low for 2010 and 2009, although they can fluctuate substantially due to the relatively small size of this business line. 62 Commercial Lines Insurance Outlook Industrywide commercial lines written premiums are projected to increase less than 1 percent in 2011 with the industry statutory combined ratio estimated at approximately 110 percent. As discussed in Item 1, Commercial Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 12, over the past several years, renewal and new business pricing has come under steadily increasing pressure, reinforcing the need for more pricing analytics and careful risk selection. While competition remains intense, pricing changes seem to be leveling off. Despite challenging market conditions, we believe we can manage our business and execute strategic initiatives to offset market pressures to some extent and still profitably grow our commercial lines segment. We intend to continue marketing our products to a broad range of business classes with a package approach, while improving our pricing precision. We intend to maintain our underwriting selectivity and carefully manage our rate levels as well as our programs that seek to accurately match exposures with appropriate premiums. We will continue to evaluate each risk individually and to make decisions about rates, the use of three year commercial policies and other policy conditions on a case by case basis, even in lines and classes of business that are under competitive pressure. Nonetheless, we expect commercial lines profitability to remain under pressure in 2011, in part due to small average pricing declines on policies renewed during 2010 for which premiums will be earned during 2011. In Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 9, we discuss the initiatives we are implementing to achieve our corporate performance objectives. We discuss factors influencing future results of our property casualty insurance operations in the Executive Summary, Page 36. 63 Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations Overview Three Year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 721 $ 685 $ 689 5 (1 ) Fee revenues 2 1 1 100 0 Total premiums and fee revenues 723 686 690 5 (1 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 508 485 498 5 (3 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 63 106 99 (41 ) 7 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (29 ) (45 ) (51 ) 36 12 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (5 ) 5 1 nm 400 Total loss and loss expenses 537 551 547 (3 ) 1 Underwriting expenses 240 215 224 12 (4 ) Underwriting loss $ (54 ) $ (80 ) $ (81 ) 33 1 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 70.4 % 70.9 % 72.2 % (0.5 ) (1.3 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 8.8 15.4 14.4 (6.6 ) 1.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (4.1 ) (6.6 ) (7.3 ) 2.5 0.7 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.7 ) 0.7 0.1 (1.4 ) 0.6 Total loss and loss expenses 74.4 80.4 79.4 (6.0 ) 1.0 Underwriting expenses 33.3 31.4 32.5 1.9 (1.1 ) Combined ratio 107.7 % 111.8 % 111.9 % (4.1 ) (0.1 ) Combined ratio: 107.7 % 111.8 % 111.9 % (4.1 ) (0.1 ) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 4.0 9.5 7.2 (5.5 ) 2.3 Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 103.7 % 102.3 % 104.7 % 1.4 (2.4 ) Performance highlights for the personal lines segment include: Premiums Earned premiums and net written premiums increased in 2010, due to higher renewal and new business premiums that reflected improved pricing, including rate changes effective late 2009 for most states and representing a net rate increase on average. During 2009, we adjusted pricing in an effort to return to consistent profitability in our personal lines segment. Net written premiums grew slightly, driven by new business growth that included expansion into new states where we previously offered only commercial lines policies. Industry average written premium growth was estimated at approximately 3 percent in 2010, up from negative 1 percent in both 2009 and 2008. Combined ratio The combined ratio improved 4.1 percentage points in 2010, mostly due to lower weather related catastrophe losses and partly due to improved pricing. The improvement was partially offset by a higher underwriting expense ratio and a lower benefit from net favorable reserve development on prior accident years. The 2010 level of catastrophe losses, with an 8.1 percent ratio, returned to near longer term historical averages, just 0.4 percentage points below the 10 year average of 8.5 percent. The ratio for catastrophe losses in 2009, at 16.1 percent, was approximately twice the 10 year historical average but was only 1.6 percentage points higher than 2008. The current accident year loss and loss expense ratio, before catastrophe losses, improved slightly during 2010 and reflected better underwriting and pricing. For 2009, it trended up slightly, once refinements made to the IBNR reserve allocation in 2008 were taken into account. The 2008 ratio included approximately $20 million, or 2.9 percentage points, from refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year. Our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 107.1 percent in 2010, 111.4 percent in 2009 and 111.6 percent in 2008. By comparison, the estimated industry personal lines combined ratio was 99.5 percent in 2010, 100.6 percent in 2009 and 103.6 percent in 2008. Our concentration of business in areas hard hit by catastrophe events contributed to recent results that differed from the overall industry, an issue we are addressing in part through geographic expansion as noted below. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 8.1 percentage points in 2010, 16.1 percent points in 2009 and 14.5 percentage points in 2008, compared with an estimated 5.5, 4.9 and 7.5 percentage points, respectively, for the industry. 64 Personal Lines Insurance Premiums (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $ 685 $ 642 $ 672 7 (4 ) Agency new business written premiums 90 75 42 20 79 Other written premiums (25 ) (26 ) (29 ) 4 10 Net written premiums 750 691 685 9 1 Unearned premium change (29 ) (6 ) 4 (383 ) nm Earned premiums $ 721 $ 685 $ 689 5 (1 ) Personal lines insurance is a strategic component of our overall relationship with many of our agencies and an important component of our agencies relationships with their clients. We believe agents recommend Cincinnati personal insurance products for their value oriented clients who seek to balance quality and price and who are attracted by our superior claims service and the benefits of our package approach. Our personal lines policy retention and new business levels have remained at higher levels following introduction in recent years of a limited program of policy credits for personal auto and homeowner pricing in most of the states in which we operate. The program provided credits for eligible new and renewal policyholders identified as above average quality risks. Additional pricing and credit changes were implemented in early 2009, further improving pricing for the best accounts, which should help us retain and attract more of our agents preferred business. The 7 percent increase in 2010 agency renewal written premiums reflected various rate changes that were implemented beginning in October 2009. Increases for the homeowner line of business averaging approximately 5 percent, with some individual policy rate increases in the double digit range, should improve loss ratios as the increases are earned. Similar rate changes, with a slightly higher average rate increase, were implemented in the fourth quarter of 2010 for states representing the majority of our personal lines business. Rate changes for our personal auto line of business implemented during the fourth quarter of 2010 represented an average rate increase in the low single digit range. The 2010 personal auto rate changes reflected enhanced pricing precision enabled by the recent deployment of predictive models. Predictive modeling tools also influenced policy pricing and various rate changes during 2008 through 2010 for our homeowner line of business. In 2010, our personal lines new business premiums written by our agencies grew 20 percent. We believe the main drivers for the growth were more attractive pricing, plus ease of use and efficiency gained by agencies from the new version of our Diamond personal lines policy processing system deployed in early 2010. New business also rose strongly in 2009 as the number of agency locations writing our personal lines rose by 133, or 14.4 percent, following an increase of 136 agency locations in 2008. Since early 2008, we have worked to improve our geographic diversification by expanding our personal lines operation to several states less prone to catastrophes. Seven states where we began writing business or significantly expanded our personal lines product offerings and automation capabilities, beginning in 2008, accounted for $13 million of the 2009 increase in our personal lines new business written premiums. Those seven states are Arizona, Idaho, Maryland, Montana, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Utah. For the three year period, other written premiums, primarily premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and that lower our net written premiums, remained relatively stable. Additional premiums ceded to reinsurers to reinstate our catastrophe reinsurance treaty contributed $9 million to other written premiums in 2008. Personal Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the three year highlights table above on Page 64 are for the respective current accident years, and reserve development on prior accident years is shown separately. Since approximately two thirds of our personal lines current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represent net paid losses, the remaining one third represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 86.3 percent accident year 2009 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2009, developed favorably by 1.8 percentage points to 84.5 percent due to settling claims for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2010. Accident years 2009 and 2008 for the personal lines segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 571 $ 579 $ 562 79.2 % 84.5 % 81.5 % as of December 31, 2009 591 575 86.3 83.4 as of December 31, 2008 597 86.6 65 Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49, explain some of the movement in accident year loss and loss expense ratios among the years 2008 through 2010. Catastrophe losses added 8.8 percentage points for 2010, 15.4 points for 2009 and 14.4 points for 2008 to the respective personal lines accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. Catastrophe losses were unusually high during 2009 and 2008, and also are inherently volatile, as discussed above and in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 49. The trend for our personal lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years reflected normal loss cost inflation, better risk selection and improved pricing, as discussed above in Personal Lines Insurance Premiums. Higher non catastrophe weather related losses also affected trends, particularly for 2008 and 2009, and large losses described below also were a factor. In addition, previously discussed refinements made to the allocation of IBNR reserves by accident year increased the 2008 ratio. Personal lines reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2010, as $34 million was recognized, somewhat lower than $40 million in 2009 and $50 million in 2008. Most of the personal lines reserve development on prior accident years for years 2008 through 2010 occurred in our other personal line of business, primarily for personal umbrella liability coverage. Development by line of business and other trends for personal lines loss and loss expenses and the related ratios are further analyzed in Personal Lines of Business Analysis, beginning on Page 67, and in Personal Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 87. Personal Lines Insurance Losses by Size (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 0 0 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 20 17 16 18 8 New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 41 48 44 (15 ) 7 Case reserve development above $250,000 11 19 16 (42 ) 25 Total large losses incurred 77 89 81 (13 ) 10 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 336 281 295 20 (4 ) Catastrophe losses 58 111 100 (48 ) 10 Total losses incurred $ 471 $ 481 $ 476 (2 ) 1 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: New losses greater than $4,000,000 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.7 % 0.0 0.0 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 2.8 2.5 2.3 0.3 0.2 New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 5.7 6.9 6.4 (1.2 ) 0.5 Case reserve development above $250,000 1.6 2.8 2.3 (1.2 ) 0.5 Total large losses incurred 10.8 12.9 11.7 (2.1 ) 1.2 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 46.5 41.1 42.8 5.4 (1.7 ) Catastrophe losses 8.1 16.2 14.5 (8.1 ) 1.7 Total loss ratio 65.4 % 70.2 % 69.0 % (4.8 ) 1.2 In 2010, total large losses incurred decreased by $12 million or 13 percent, helping to lower the corresponding ratio by 2.1 percentage points. The majority of the decrease was for claims related to our personal auto line of business. In 2009 the total large losses incurred ratio was higher than it was in 2008, primarily due to more homeowner fire losses. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs. Personal Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 145 $ 137 $ 137 6 0 Other underwriting expenses 95 78 87 22 (10 ) Total underwriting expenses $ 240 $ 215 $ 224 12 (4 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 20.1 % 19.9 % 19.8 % 0.2 0.1 Other underwriting expenses 13.2 11.5 12.7 1.7 (1.2 ) Total underwriting expense ratio 33.3 % 31.4 % 32.5 % 1.9 (1.1 ) Personal lines commission expense as a percent of earned premium increased slightly in 2010 and 2009, primarily due to higher agency contingent commissions. 66 Other underwriting expenses grew $17 million or 22 percent, primarily due to a first quarter 2010 provision for matters involving prior years and related to Note 16, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, Page 125. They declined in 2009 primarily due to lower depreciation expense on previously capitalized software expenditures. An unusual expense of $3 million due to a pension charge was included in the 2008 ratio. Personal Lines of Business Analysis We prefer to write personal lines coverages within accounts that include both auto and homeowner coverages as well as coverages from the other personal business line. As a result, we believe that the personal lines segment is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to summarize growth and profitability trends separately for each line. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of incurred loss and loss expenses and corresponding ratios over the most recent three accident years. Accident year data classifies losses according to the year in which the corresponding loss events occur, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, recorded or paid. For 2010, the homeowner line of business had a total loss and loss expense ratio significantly higher than desired. As discussed below, we are taking actions to improve pricing and reduce loss costs that we expect to benefit future profitability trends. Personal Auto (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Personal auto: Net written premiums $ 352 $ 324 $ 320 9 1 Earned premiums 337 319 325 6 (2 ) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 239 224 226 7 (1 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 3 3 4 0 (25 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (7 ) (6 ) (12 ) (17 ) 50 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 235 $ 221 $ 218 6 1 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 70.9 % 70.2 % 69.4 % 0.7 0.8 Current accident year catastrophe losses 1.1 1.0 1.2 0.1 (0.2 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (2.1 ) (2.0 ) (3.4 ) (0.1 ) 1.4 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.1 ) (0.2 ) 0.0 0.1 (0.2 ) Total loss and loss expense ratio 69.8 % 69.0 % 67.2 % 0.8 1.8 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 242 $ 225 $ 225 72.0 % 70.4 % 69.2 % as of December 31, 2009 227 227 71.2 69.8 as of December 31, 2008 230 70.6 Net written premiums for personal auto increased significantly in 2010, in part due to strong new business growth. The calendar year total loss and loss expense ratio rose slightly over the three year period. In recent years, we have seen generally higher costs for liability claims, including severe injuries, and we have sought rate increases for liability coverages that partially offset price decreases for physical damage coverages. Pricing precision is being improved through use of the recently deployed predictive modeling tool. In addition to using the tool as part of rate changes implemented in the fourth quarter of 2010, we expect another round of rate changes, representing another net increase in rates on average, effective late 2011. The 2010 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses deteriorated slightly compared with accident year 2009, primarily due to earned pricing changes. 67 Homeowner (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Homeowner: Net written premiums $ 299 $ 275 $ 277 9 (1 ) Earned premiums 289 276 277 5 0 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 208 202 194 3 4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 56 96 89 (42 ) 8 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (2 ) (5 ) (9 ) 60 44 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (4 ) 5 1 nm 400 Total loss and loss expenses $ 258 $ 298 $ 275 (13 ) 8 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 72.0 % 73.0 % 69.9 % (1.0 ) 3.1 Current accident year catastrophe losses 19.3 34.7 32.1 (15.4 ) 2.6 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (0.9 ) (1.6 ) (3.2 ) 0.7 1.6 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (1.4 ) 1.7 0.4 (3.1 ) 1.3 Total loss and loss expense ratio 89.0 % 107.8 % 99.2 % (18.8 ) 8.6 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 264 $ 295 $ 279 91.3 % 106.9 % 100.5 % as of December 31, 2009 298 281 107.7 101.5 as of December 31, 2008 283 102.0 Net written premiums for homeowner increased significantly in 2010, in part due to strong new business growth. Premiums ceded for reinsurance, which reduce premium revenue, were $18 million in 2010, $22 million in 2009, and $26 million in 2008, including a 2008 reinstatement premium of $8 million. The pricing changes of the past several years have had a positive effect on policyholder retention and new business activity. We continue to monitor and modify selected rates and credits to address our competitive position and to achieve long term profitability. Implementation of predictive modeling has provided additional pricing points to target profitability. Various rate changes were implemented in both late October 2010 and 2009, including rate increases that respond in part to weather related loss trends as well as other trends in loss costs. The 2009 increases for the homeowner line of business averaged approximately 6 percent in affected states and 5 percent overall, although some individual policies experienced renewal increases in the double digit range. The average effect of the 2010 rate changes were approximately the same as 2009 and should lower loss ratios as the rate increases are earned. We also continue our gradual geographic diversification into states less prone to catastrophe losses, which we believe will reduce variability in the long term future catastrophe loss ratio. These actions are important steps we are taking to improve homeowner results. The calendar year total loss and loss expense ratio over the past three years fluctuated with catastrophe losses, non catastrophe weather related losses and other large losses. A $5 million increase in 2010 large losses, compared with 2009, contributed 1.7 percentage points to the homeowner loss ratio. The 2010 catastrophe loss effect of 17.9 percentage points returned to a level near historical averages. In 2008 and 2009, our catastrophe loss ratio averaged 34.5 percent, compared with a 10 year average through 2007 of 17.4 percent. The current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses remained high in 2010, in part due to the same non catastrophe weather related losses and other large losses that affected the calendar year result. 68 Other Personal (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Other personal: Net written premiums $ 99 $ 92 $ 88 8 5 Earned premiums 95 90 87 6 3 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 61 60 79 2 (24 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 4 7 6 (43 ) 17 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (20 ) (34 ) (30 ) 41 (13 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (1 ) 0 (1 ) nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $ 44 $ 33 $ 54 33 (39 ) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 64.1 % 66.9 % 89.9 % (2.8 ) (23.0 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 3.8 7.7 6.9 (3.9 ) 0.8 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (20.8 ) (38.3 ) (34.4 ) 17.5 (3.9 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.5 ) 0.6 (0.2 ) (1.1 ) 0.8 Total loss and loss expense ratio 46.6 % 36.9 % 62.2 % 9.7 (25.3 ) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 65 $ 59 $ 58 67.9 % 65.9 % 67.1 % as of December 31, 2009 67 67 74.6 76.8 as of December 31, 2008 85 96.8 Other personal premiums increased in 2010 and 2009, generally tracking with the growth in our personal auto and homeowner lines before the effects of reinsurance. Most of our other personal coverages are endorsed to homeowner or auto policies. The calendar year and accident year loss and loss expense ratio for other personal continued to improve in 2010 and has been at a very profitable level the past two years. Reserve development on prior accident years can fluctuate significantly for this business line because personal umbrella liability coverage is a major component of other personal losses. Personal Lines Insurance Outlook A.M. Best projects industrywide personal lines written premiums may rise approximately 3 percent in 2011, with an industry statutory combined ratio estimated at 98.5 percent. With our improvement in new business levels and our strong policy retention rate, along with rate increases effected in late 2010, we expect our growth rate to be higher than the industry projection for 2011. In Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 9, we discuss the initiatives we are implementing to address the unsatisfactory performance of our personal lines segment, in particular the homeowner line of business. We also describe steps to enhance our response to the changing marketplace. Our personal lines pricing and loss activity are at levels that could put achievement of our corporate financial objectives at risk if those trends continue. We discuss our overall outlook for our property casualty insurance operations in the Executive Summary, Page 36. 69 Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations Overview Three Year Highlights (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 49 $ 27 $ 5 81 440 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 41 21 5 95 320 Current accident year catastrophe losses 1 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (1 ) (1 ) 0 nm Prior accident years catastrophe losses nm nm Total loss and loss expenses 41 20 5 105 300 Underwriting expenses 16 22 7 (27 ) 214 Underwriting loss $ (8 ) $ (15 ) $ (7 ) 47 nm Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 83.8 % 75.4 % 109.1 % 8.4 (33.7 ) Current accident year catastrophe losses 1.2 0.2 0.4 1.0 (0.2 ) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (1.3 ) (0.9 ) 0.0 (0.4 ) (0.9 ) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expenses 83.7 74.7 109.5 9.0 (34.8 ) Underwriting expenses 31.7 80.2 156.5 (48.5 ) (76.3 ) Combined ratio 115.4 % 154.9 % 266.0 % (39.5 ) (111.1 ) Combined ratio: 115.4 % 154.9 % 266.0 % (39.5 ) (111.1 ) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (0.1 ) (0.7 ) 0.4 0.6 (1.1 ) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 115.5 % 155.6 % 265.6 % (40.1 ) (110.0 ) Performance highlights for the excess and surplus lines segment include: Premiums Higher earned premiums in 2010 reflected very strong net written premium growth during 2009, the second full year of operations for our excess and surplus lines segment. Net written premiums grew in 2010 primarily due to more initial opportunities to renew accounts that were written for the first time as new business during the previous year. The 2010 volume of those initial opportunities to renew nearly doubled the volume of 2009 because new business written premiums in 2009 approximately doubled new business premiums written in 2008. New business written premiums grew modestly in 2010, at a much slower rate than in 2009, partly due to increased competition in the excess and surplus lines market, including standard market companies writing policies for risks that were formerly insurable only in the excess and surplus lines market. Combined ratio The combined ratio improved in 2010, primarily due to lower underwriting expenses. The total loss and loss expense ratio increased primarily due to higher large losses, claims exceeding $250,000 of insured loss, that outpaced growth in earned premiums. Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Premiums (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Renewal written premiums $ 29 $ 10 $ 190 nm New business written premiums 35 32 14 9 129 Other written premiums (6 ) (3 ) (100 ) nm Net written premiums 58 39 14 49 179 Unearned premium change (9 ) (12 ) (9 ) 25 (33 ) Earned premiums $ 49 $ 27 $ 5 81 440 The $19 million increase in renewal premiums in 2010 was primarily a result of the opportunity to renew more policies that represented new business in 2009, when new business written premiums grew by $18 million. Renewal pricing changes also accounted for some of the increase, as our excess and surplus lines policies averaged estimated price increases that were flat to slightly up in the second half of 2010. We measure average changes in excess and surplus lines renewal pricing as the rate of change in renewal premium for the new policy period compared with the premium for the expiring policy period, assuming no change in the level of insured exposures or policy coverage between those periods for respective policies. New business written premium growth in 2009 was largely a result of introducing new coverages, and also increased understanding by agencies representing The Cincinnati Insurance Companies of competitive advantages described in Excess and Surplus Lines Property Casualty Insurance Segment, Page 16. For most 70 of 2008, only general liability coverages were available. In late 2008, property and professional liability coverages were first offered, followed by excess liability in late 2009. Other written premiums are primarily premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and that lower our net written premiums. Changes in ceded premium volume tend to follow a pattern similar to changes in the total of renewal and new business written premiums. Competition for new business increased during 2010 as we observed more instances of business being written by standard market commercial lines insurers seeking additional growth opportunities. In many cases we saw policy terms and conditions being offered that were less restrictive than those we observed in the past for similar risks, without a corresponding premium for the broadened insurance coverage. As a result, we declined to write many of those new business and some renewal business opportunities, leading to a significantly slower rate of new business growth for 2010 at 9 percent compared with 129 percent in 2009. Excess and Surplus Lines Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the three year highlights table above on Page 70 are for the respective current accident years, and reserve development on prior accident years is shown separately. Since less than 20 percent of our 2010 excess and surplus lines current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid losses, a large majority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 75.6 percent accident year 2009 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2009, developed favorably by 2.1 percentage points to 73.5 percent due to settling claims for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2010. Accident years 2009 and 2008 for the excess and surplus lines segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2010 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 as of December 31, 2010 $ 42 $ 20 $ 4 85.0 % 73.5 % 102.8 % as of December 31, 2009 20 5 75.6 104.5 as of December 31, 2008 5 109.5 Catastrophe losses partially explain some of the accident year loss and loss expenses trend for years 2008 through 2010. Catastrophe losses added 1.2 percentage points for 2010, 0.2 for 2009 and 0.4 percentage points for 2008 to the respective excess and surplus lines accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. The 2010 increase of 8.4 percentage points in the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses was driven by higher large losses. New losses of $250,000 or more per claim totaled $12 million in 2010, compared with less than $1 million in 2009, and accounted for 23.5 percentage points of the ratio. No unexpected concentration of these losses was indicated from our analysis by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. Our first excess and surplus lines policies were written in 2008 and reserves for estimated unpaid losses and loss expenses were $5 million as of December 31, 2008, for losses that occurred in 2008. As of December 31, 2010, an estimated $2 million remained unpaid for those same loss events that occurred in 2008. Due to the limited history of settled claims for our excess and surplus lines business it is difficult to draw meaningful inferences about claim settlement patterns or trends in loss and loss expense experience based on data in the table above. Excess and surplus lines reserve development on prior accident years netted to a favorable amount in 2010, $1 million, resulting in a loss and loss expenses ratio effect similar to 2009. Development trends are further analyzed in Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 89. We believe the adequacy of loss and loss expenses reserves for our excess and surplus lines business is strong. We establish case reserves in a manner consistent with standard lines coverages, despite the more restrictive terms and conditions for excess and surplus lines policies. 71 Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Commission expenses $ 8 $ 5 $ 1 60 400 Other underwriting expenses 8 17 6 (53 ) 183 Total underwriting expenses $ 16 $ 22 $ 7 (27 ) 214 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 16.5 % 18.0 % 16.8 % (1.5 ) 1.2 Other underwriting expenses 15.2 62.2 139.7 (47.0 ) (77.5 ) Total underwriting expense ratio 31.7 % 80.2 % 156.5 % (48.5 ) (76.3 ) Excess and surplus lines commission expense at 16.5 percent of earned premiums for 2010 is expected to remain near that level in the future. Non commission underwriting expenses declined in 2010 primarily due to the reduction of various start up costs during 2008 and 2009 as our excess and surplus lines began operations in 2008. The primary category of expense reduction was development costs for our rating and policy administration system. Excess and Surplus Lines Outlook The general trends of 2010 for the excess and surplus lines markets are expected to continue in 2011, according to several industry reports. Competition is expected to remain strong, in part due to standard market insurance companies insuring businesses that previously were written by excess and surplus lines insurers. Soft market conditions for commercial lines business overall is the driver of this trend, and industry observers generally expect little change in the foreseeable future. The slowly recovering U.S. economy, another major factor in demand for insurance products, is also expected to contribute to modestly declining or relatively flat premium volume during 2011 for the excess and surplus lines industry. Industry reports suggest that opportunities for managing profitability and growth exist through greater use of technology. Technology and data are also being used by excess and surplus lines insurance companies to identify new exposures in emerging businesses that need insurance protection or other value added services. Our strategy of providing superior service is expected to continue to grow our excess and surplus lines segment and achieve profitability despite challenging market conditions. We intend to continue carefully selecting and pricing risks, providing prompt delivery of insurance quotes and policies and outstanding claims and loss control service from local field representatives who also handle the standard lines business for their assigned agencies. These local representatives are supported by headquarters underwriters and claims managers who specialize in excess and surplus lines. 72 Life Insurance Results of Operations Overview Three Year Highlights (In millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Earned premiums $ 158 $ 143 $ 126 10 13 Separate account investment management fees 1 2 nm (100 ) Total revenues 159 143 128 11 12 Contract holders benefits incurred 170 160 142 6 13 Investment interest credited to contract holders (79 ) (69 ) (63 ) (14 ) (10 ) Operating expenses incurred 61 50 45 22 11 Total benefits and expenses 152 141 124 8 14 Life insurance segment profit $ 7 $ 2 $ 4 250 (50 ) Performance highlights for the life insurance segment include: Revenues Driven by higher term life insurance premiums, earned premiums have grown at a double digit rate the past two years. Gross in force policy face amounts increased to $74.124 billion at year end 2010 from $69.815 billion at year end 2009 and $65.888 billion at year end 2008. Profitability The life insurance segment frequently reports only a small profit or loss because most of its investment income is included in investment segment results. We include only investment income credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations) in life insurance segment results. The segment reported a $7 million profit in 2010. Life Insurance Premiums (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Term life insurance $ 96 $ 86 $ 76 12 13 Universal life insurance 35 28 24 25 17 Other life insurance, annuity, and disability income products 27 29 26 (7 ) 12 Net earned premiums $ 158 $ 143 $ 126 10 13 We market term, whole and universal life products, fixed annuities and disability income products. In addition, we offer term, whole and universal life and disability insurance to employees at their worksite. These products provide our property casualty agency force with excellent cross serving opportunities for both commercial and personal accounts. Earned premiums increased in 2010 largely because of growth in our term and universal life insurance business. Earned premiums from term insurance grew $10 million, or 12 percent, and earned premiums from universal life insurance grew $7 million, or 25 percent. Separate account investment management fee income contributed $1 million to total revenue in 2010, compared with less than $1 million contribution in 2009 and $2 million in 2008. These fees increased primarily because of the net realized capital gain and loss sharing agreement between the separate account and the general account. Over the past several years, we have worked to maintain a portfolio of simple, yet competitive products, primarily under the LifeHorizons banner. Our product development efforts emphasize death benefit protection and guarantees. Distribution expansion within our property casualty insurance agencies remains a high priority. In the past several years, we have added life field marketing representatives for the western, southeastern and northeastern states. Our 31 life field marketing representatives work in partnership with our 117 property casualty field marketing representatives. Approximately 69 percent of our term and other life insurance product premiums were generated through our property casualty insurance agency relationships. Life Insurance Profitability Although we exclude most of our life insurance company investment income from investment segment results, we recognize that assets under management, capital appreciation and investment income are integral to evaluation of the success of the life insurance segment because of the long duration of life products. On a basis that includes investment income and realized gains or losses from life insurance related invested assets, the life insurance company reported a net profit of $39 million in 2010, compared with a net profit of $22 million in 2009 and a net loss of $19 million in 2008. The life insurance company portfolio had after tax net realized investment gains of $2 million in 2010, compared with after tax net realized investment losses of $13 million in 2009, which included $15 million in OTTI charges. Net realized investment losses were $58 million in 2008, including $66 million in OTTI charges. Realized investment gains and losses are discussed under Investment Results of Operations, Page 75. 73 Life segment expenses consist principally of: Contract holders benefits incurred, related to traditional life and interest sensitive products, accounted for 73.6 percent of 2010 total benefits and expenses compared with 76.4 percent in 2009 and 75.7 percent in 2008. Total contract holders benefits rose due to net death claims that increased but remained within our range of pricing expectations. Operating expenses incurred, net of deferred acquisition costs, accounted for 26.4 percent of 2010 total benefits and expenses compared with 23.6 percent in 2009 and 24.3 percent in 2008. Unlocking of actuarial assumptions for our universal life contracts was the primary reason for increased operating expenses in 2010. Expenses in 2010 were also up from increased commissions due to growth in term life insurance and fixed annuities. Life segment profitability depends largely on premium levels, the adequacy of product pricing, underwriting skill and operating efficiencies. Life segment results include only investment interest credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). The remaining investment income is reported in the investment segment results. The life investment portfolio is managed to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and rates credited to policyholders. We consider the value of assets under management and investment income for the life investment portfolio as key performance indicators for the life insurance segment. We seek to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to benefits paid and reserve increases by consistently achieving better than average claims experience due to skilled underwriting. Commissions paid by the life insurance operation are on par with industry averages. During the past several years, we have invested in imaging and workflow technology and have significantly improved application processing. We have achieved process efficiencies while improving our service. These efficiencies have played a significant role in cost containment and in our ability to increase total premiums and policy count over the past 10 years with minimal headcount additions. Life Insurance Outlook During 2010, the life insurance market continued to stabilize from the turmoil it experienced during the financial crisis. Of particular interest to us, 2010 saw decreased rate volatility for term insurance as the cost of reserve financing moderated, albeit at rates substantially higher than before the financial crisis. This higher cost of reserve financing has led a number of large term writers to replace their term portfolios with term like universal life products. These companies have sacrificed a simple design and the high redundant reserve requirement with a much more complex design and a lower reserve requirement. We believe this offers us a competitive advantage, and we expect to see continued growth in our term business because of our commitment to offering our distribution the most straight forward products possible, at a reliable and competitive rate. Our property casualty agencies remain the main distribution system for our life insurance segment, and we continue to emphasize securing an increasing share of the life insurance premium produced by these agencies. While other life insurers continue to expand nontraditional distribution channels such as direct sales, we intend to market through agencies affiliated with our property casualty insurance operations or independent life only agencies. In 2010, our property casualty agencies produced 69 percent and our life only agencies 31 percent of our life insurance premium. Term insurance continues to fit well with the sales goals of both our property casualty and life only agencies and remains our largest product line. We continue to emphasize the cross serving opportunities of our worksite products for our property casualty agencies commercial accounts, and in 2010 we introduced a new worksite term product with a return of premium feature. Also in 2010, we introduced a second to die universal life product. We believe this product helps satisfy an important need that is heightened by an aging boomer population and a fluctuating federal estate tax situation. We expect annuity sales to moderate somewhat in 2011 as we introduce a new product with a lower guaranteed rate of interest. Such a product affords us more protection during prolonged periods of low interest rates. New annuity suitability regulations also are a headwind on annuity sales due to the added burden on the agent and the resulting increased acquisition costs. We made good progress in improving our operational technology in 2010. We remain on track to complete a major administration system consolidation project in 2011. Online illustrations were introduced and are already contributing to savings. Finally, we have other initiatives underway that will make it easier for our agents to do business with us, from flexible compensation arrangements to electronic applications. We fully expect all of these initiatives to contribute additional revenue and or reduced expenses in 2012 and beyond. 74 Investment Results of Operations Overview Three Year Highlights Investment Results (In millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Total investment income, net of expenses, pre tax $ 518 $ 501 $ 537 3 (7 ) Investment interest credited to contract holders (79 ) (69 ) (63 ) (14 ) (10 ) Realized investment gains and losses summary: Realized investment gains and losses 185 440 686 (58 ) (36 ) Change in fair value of securities with embedded derivatives 10 27 (38 ) (63 ) nm Other than temporary impairment charges (36 ) (131 ) (510 ) 73 74 Total realized investment gains and losses 159 336 138 (53 ) 143 Investment operations profit $ 598 $ 768 $ 612 (22 ) 25 The investment segment contributes investment income and realized gains and losses to results of operations. Investments provide our primary source of pretax and after tax profits. Investment income Pretax investment income increased 3 percent in 2010, primarily because of additional net purchases in our fixed maturity portfolio that offset declining yields. Pretax investment income declined 7 percent in 2009, primarily because of prior year dividend cuts in our common stock portfolio. After tax investment income increased 2 percent in 2010 compared with a decrease of 11 percent in 2009. The steeper decline in 2009 after tax investment income, compared with the pretax basis, was primarily due to a change in mix of investment income as dividends have tax advantages relative to interest on corporate bonds. Realized investment gains and losses We reported realized investment gains in all three years, largely due to investment sales that were discretionary in timing and amount. Those sales were somewhat offset by OTTI charges. The $510 million impairment for the write down of 126 securities in 2008 largely offset gains from investment sales. Investment Income The primary drivers of investment income were: Interest income rose 5 percent in 2010 primarily due to investing our typical allocation of net cash flow from operations in fixed maturity securities. It increased significantly in 2009 as we increased our allocation of investments to fixed maturity securities. Dividend income declined 1 percent in 2010 after declining 51 percent in 2009. In early 2009, we reduced the size of our preferred stock portfolio, which generally provides higher yields, in response to the market conditions related to the banking crisis. During 2008, we reduced the size of our common stock portfolio by more than 50 percent in response to actual or anticipated dividend reductions as well as for the implementation of a risk management program. In 2010, we continued to invest available cash flow in both fixed income and equity securities in a manner that we believe balances current income needs with longer term invested assets growth goals. (In millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Investment income: Interest $ 423 $ 402 $ 326 5 23 Dividends 99 100 204 (1 ) (51 ) Other 4 7 14 (43 ) (50 ) Investment expenses (8 ) (8 ) (7 ) 0 (14 ) Total investment income, net of expenses, pre tax 518 501 537 3 (7 ) Income taxes (126 ) (118 ) (106 ) (7 ) (11 ) Total investment income, net of expenses, after tax $ 392 $ 383 $ 431 2 (11 ) Effective tax rate 24.4 % 23.6 % 19.7 % Average invested assets plus cash and cash equivalents $ 11,547 $ 10,550 $ 11,193 Average yield pre tax 4.5 % 4.7 % 4.8 % Average yield after tax 3.4 % 3.6 % 3.9 % Net Realized Investment Gains and Losses Net realized investment gains and losses are made up of realized investment gains and losses on the sale of securities, changes in the valuation of embedded derivatives within certain convertible securities and OTTI charges. These three areas are discussed below. 75 Investment gains or losses are recognized upon the sales of investments or as otherwise required under GAAP. The timing of realized gains or losses from sales can have a material effect on results in any given period. However, such gains or losses usually have little, if any, effect on total shareholders equity because most equity and fixed maturity investments are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gain or loss included as a component of other comprehensive income. At year end 2010, the fixed maturities fair value was 106.3 percent of book value compared with 104.5 percent at year end 2009. Realized Investment Gains and Losses As appropriate, we buy, hold or sell both fixed maturity and equity securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve our portfolio objectives. Pretax realized investment gains in the past three years largely were due to the sale of equity holdings. Net realized investment gains and losses totaling $185 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, reflected: $174 million in realized gains from equity sales, including $128 million from the sale of Verisk Analytics Inc. (NYSE: VRSK). $13 million in net gains from fixed maturity sales and calls. $10 million in gains from changes in fair value of securities with embedded derivatives. $36 million in OTTI charges to write down holdings of equities and fixed maturities. The $13 million in net gains from fixed maturity sales included a $1 million gain in short term investments due to the final receipt from the Reserve Primary Fund that exceeded the impaired basis. The net gains also included $12 million in losses due to sales of all of the remaining holdings of collateralized mortgage obligations, which occurred during the first quarter of 2010. The $440 million net realized investment gain in 2009, was primarily due to $624 million from sales of various equity holdings, including Pfizer Inc. (NYSE: PFE), Exxon Mobil Corporation (NYSE: XOM), The Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE: PG), Fifth Third Bancorp (NASDAQ: FITB), and Piedmont Natural Gas Company Inc. (NYSE: PNY). Realized losses of $162 million from the sale of several equity securities partially offset realized investment gains. In 2008, most of the gain was due to sales of holdings of common and preferred stocks of financial services issuers, to reduce our historical weighting in financial sector securities. The majority of these holdings were sold following reductions or elimination of their cash dividends to shareholders. Because of our low cost basis, we were able to record gains on many of these sales despite the decline in overall stock market values during 2008. We generally purchase fixed income securities with the intention to hold until maturity. Securities that no longer meet our investment criteria, usually due to a change in credit fundamentals, are divested. Change in the Valuation of Securities with Embedded Derivatives We have a small portfolio of convertible preferred stocks and bonds, which have an embedded derivative component. In 2010 we recorded $10 million in fair value realized gains compared with $27 million in 2009 and a $38 million fair value decline for 2008. These changes in fair value were due to the application of ASC 815 15 25, which allows us to account for the entire hybrid financial instrument at fair value, with changes recognized in realized investment gains and losses. The changes in fair values are recognized in net income in the period they occur. See the discussion of Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 105, for details on the accounting for convertible security embedded options. Other than temporary Impairment Charges In 2010, we recorded $36 million in write downs of 15 securities that we deemed had experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value compared with $131 million for 50 securities in 2009 and $510 million for 126 securities in 2008. The factors we consider when evaluating impairments are discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 44. The OTTI charges in 2010 were less than 1 percent of our investment portfolio at year end compared with 1 percent for 2009 and 5 percent for 2008. OTTI charges also include unrealized losses of holdings that we intend to sell but have not yet completed a transaction. 76 OTTI charges from the investment portfolio by the asset class we described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 19, are summarized below: (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Taxable fixed maturities: Impairment amount $ (1 ) $ (61 ) $ (162 ) New book value $ 9 $ 81 $ 187 Percent to total book value owned 0 % 2 % 6 % Number of securities impaired 5 37 86 Percent to number of securities owned 0 % 3 % 10 % Tax exempt fixed maturities: Impairment amount $ (2 ) $ (1 ) $ (1 ) New book value $ 5 $ 3 $ 1 Percent to total book value owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Number of securities impaired 4 2 1 Percent to number of securities owned 0 % 0 % 0 % Common equities: Impairment amount $ (33 ) $ (59 ) $ (214 ) New book value $ 120 $ 48 $ 87 Percent to total book value owned 5 % 2 % 5 % Number of securities impaired 4 8 9 Percent to number of securities owned 6 % 16 % 18 % Preferred equities: Impairment amount $ 0 $ (10 ) $ (133 ) New book value $ 0 $ 5 $ 98 Percent to total book value owned 0 % 7 % 52 % Number of securities impaired 2 3 30 Percent to number of securities owned 8 % 12 % 86 % Total: Impairment amount $ (36 ) $ (131 ) $ (510 ) New book value $ 134 $ 137 $ 373 Percent to total book value owned 1 % 1 % 5 % Number of securities impaired 15 50 126 Percent to number of securities owned 1 % 2 % 6 % OTTI charges from the investment portfolio by industry are summarized as follows: (In millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Fixed maturities: Financial $ 0 $ (30 ) $ (72 ) Services cyclical 0 (14 ) (17 ) Real estate (1 ) (11 ) (49 ) Consumer cyclical 0 (5 ) (14 ) Other (2 ) (2 ) (11 ) Total fixed maturities (3 ) (62 ) (163 ) Common equities: Industrials 0 (35 ) 0 Consumer discretionary 0 (10 ) 0 Material 0 (8 ) 0 Health (21 ) (6 ) (30 ) Financial 0 0 (184 ) Information technology (12 ) 0 0 Total common equities (33 ) (59 ) (214 ) Preferred equities: Financial 0 (10 ) (132 ) Other 0 0 (1 ) Total preferred equities 0 (10 ) (133 ) Total $ (36 ) $ (131 ) $ (510 ) The decrease in OTTI charges for both 2010 and 2009 was largely due to the improvement in values as asset markets rebounded. The higher level of OTTI charges in 2008 was largely due to write downs of holdings of 77 bonds and common and preferred stocks of financial services issuers, reflecting our historical weighting in this sector and the decline in overall stock market values during 2008. Investments Outlook We continue to focus on portfolio strategies to balance near term income generation and long term book value growth. In 2011, we expect to continue to allocate a portion of cash available for investment to equity securities, taking into consideration corporate liquidity and income requirements, as well as insurance department regulations and rating agency comments. We discuss our portfolio strategies in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 19. We believe that a weak or prolonged recovery from current economic conditions could heighten the risk of renewed pressure on securities markets, which could lead to additional OTTI charges. Our asset impairment committee continues to monitor the investment portfolio. The current asset impairment policy is described in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 44. Other Revenues in 2010 for our Other businesses nearly equaled 2009. Other includes non investment operations of the parent company and its subsidiary, CFC Investment Company, and former subsidiary CinFin Capital Management Company. Losses before income taxes for Other were largely driven by interest expense from debt of the parent company. (In millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2009 2008 2010 2009 2008 Change % Change % Interest and fees on loans and leases $ 7 $ 7 $ 8 0 (13 ) Money management fees 2 nm (100 ) Other revenues 1 2 (2 ) (50 ) nm Total revenues 8 9 8 (11 ) 13 Interest expense 54 55 53 (2 ) 4 Operating expenses 11 14 15 (21 ) (7 ) Total expenses 65 69 68 (6 ) 1 Other loss $ (57 ) $ (60 ) $ (60 ) 5 0 Taxes We had $124 million of income tax expense in 2010 compared with $150 million in 2009 and $111 million in 2008. The effective tax rate for 2010 was 24.8 percent compared with 25.7 percent in 2009 and 20.7 percent in 2008. The change in our effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in pretax income from underwriting results, changes in investment income and the amount of realized investment gains and losses. Changes to tax exempt interest and the dividend received deduction in the current year compared with prior years also contributed to the change. Historically, we have pursued a strategy of investing some portion of cash flow in tax advantaged fixed maturity and equity securities to minimize our overall tax liability and maximize after tax earnings. See Tax Exempt Fixed Maturities, Page 21 for further discussion on municipal bond purchases in our fixed maturity investment portfolio. For our insurance subsidiaries, approximately 85 percent of income from tax advantaged fixed maturity investments is exempt from federal tax. Our non insurance companies own an immaterial amount of tax advantaged fixed maturity investments. For our insurance subsidiaries, the dividend received deduction, after the dividend proration of the 1986 Tax Reform Act, exempts approximately 60 percent of dividends from qualified equities from federal tax. For our non insurance subsidiaries, the dividend received deduction exempts 70 percent of dividends from qualified equities. Details about our effective tax rate are found on Note 11, Income Taxes, Page 120. Liquidity and Capital Resources We seek to maintain prudent levels of liquidity and financial strength for the protection of our policyholders, creditors and shareholders. We manage liquidity at two levels to meet the short and long term cash requirements of business obligations and growth needs. The first is the liquidity of the parent company. The second is the liquidity of our insurance subsidiary. The management of liquidity at both levels is essential because each has different funding needs and sources, and each is subject to certain regulatory guidelines and requirements. 78 Parent Company Liquidity The parent companys primary means of meeting liquidity requirements are dividends from our insurance subsidiary, investment income and sale proceeds from investments held at the parent company level. The parent companys primary contractual obligations are interest and principal payments on long and short term debt as described under Contractual Obligations, Page 81. Other uses of parent company cash include dividends to shareholders, common stock repurchases and general operating expenses described under Other Commitments, Page 81. As of December 31, 2010, the parent company had $1.042 billion in cash and marketable securities, providing strong liquidity to fund uses of cash. The table below shows a summary, by the direct method, of the major sources and uses of liquidity by the parent company. Dividends received in 2010 from our insurance subsidiary returned to a level near the average of recent years. No dividends were received from our insurance subsidiary in 2009, in order to maintain strong statutory surplus and financial strength ratings. We expect sources of liquidity to increase in 2011 and beyond, primarily from improved profitability from our property casualty operations, funding a potentially larger dividend to the parent company. The majority of expenditures for the parent company have been consistent during the last three years, and we expect future expenditures to remain fairly stable. Share repurchases are discretionary, depending on cash availability and capital management decisions. (In millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Sources of liquidity: Insurance subsidiary dividends received $ 270 $ 0 $ 220 Other operating subsidiaries dividends received 0 0 10 Investment income received 41 41 81 Uses of liquidity: Debt interest payments $ 52 $ 52 $ 53 Pension payments 25 34 34 Shareholders dividend payments 252 249 250 Purchase (issuance) of treasury shares 10 (1 ) 138 Insurance Subsidiary Liquidity Our insurance subsidiarys primary means of meeting liquidity requirements are collection of premiums, investment income, and sale proceeds from investments held at the subsidiary level. Property casualty insurance premiums generally are received before losses are paid under the policies purchased with those premiums. Our insurance subsidiarys expenditures are property casualty loss and loss expenses, commissions, salaries and other ongoing operating expenses. Over the past three years, cash receipts from property casualty along with investment income, have been more than sufficient to pay claims and operating expenses. Excess cash flow was partially used to pay dividends to the parent company. We are not aware of any known trends that would materially change historical cash flow results. We discuss the factors that affected insurance operations in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 54 and Page 64. This table shows a summary of operating cash flow for property casualty insurance (direct method): (In millions) Years ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Premiums collected $ 2,971 $ 2,957 $ 3,060 Loss and loss expenses paid (1,858 ) (1,910 ) (1,947 ) Commissions and other underwriting expenses paid (954 ) (951 ) (988 ) Insurance subsidiary cash flow from underwriting 159 96 125 Investment income received less investment expense paid 350 317 360 Insurance operating cash flow $ 509 $ 413 $ 485 Additional Sources of Liquidity Investment income is a primary source of liquidity for both the parent company and our insurance subsidiary operations. For both, cash in excess of operating requirements and dividends are invested in fixed maturity and equity securities. Equity securities provide the potential for future increases in dividend income and for capital appreciation. In Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 19, we discuss our investment strategy, portfolio allocation and quality. Income from our investments is the most important investment contribution to cash flow. While we have never sold investments to make claim payments, the sale of investments could provide an additional source of liquidity at either the parent company or insurance subsidiary level, if required, although we follow a buy and hold investment philosophy, seeking to compound cash flows over the long term. In addition to possible sales of investments, proceeds of call or maturities of fixed maturities also can provide liquidity. During the next five years, $2.804 billion, or 35.4 percent, of our fixed maturity portfolio will mature. At year end 2010, total unrealized gains in the investment portfolio, before deferred income taxes, were $1.250 billion. Further, 79 financial resources of the parent company also could be made available to our insurance subsidiaries, if circumstances required. This flexibility would include our ability to access the capital markets and short term bank borrowings. We had $790 million of long term debt and $49 million in borrowings on our short term lines of credit at year end 2010. We generally have minimized our reliance on debt financing although we may use lines of credit to fund short term cash needs. Long Term Debt We provide details of our three long term notes in Item 8, Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 118. None of the notes are encumbered by rating triggers: $391 million aggregate principal amount of 6.92% senior debentures due 2028. $28 million aggregate principal amount of 6.9% senior debentures due 2028. $374 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior debentures due 2034. The companys senior debt is rated investment grade by independent rating firms. On July 19, 2010, Standard & Poors lowered counterparty credit rating for our senior debt from BBB+ to BBB. Three other rating agencies made no changes to our debt ratings in 2010. Our debt ratings from the other rating agencies are: a from A.M. Best, BBB+ from Fitch Ratings and A3 from Moodys Investors Service. Short Term Debt At December 31, 2010, we had two lines of credit with commercial banks amounting to $225 million, with $49 million borrowed. There was no change in the amount of the $49 million short term debt during 2010 or 2009. Access to these lines of credit requires compliance with various covenants, including maintaining a minimum consolidated net worth and not exceeding a 20 percent debt to capital ratio. As of December 31, 2010, we were well within compliance with all of the covenants under the credit agreements and believe we will remain in compliance. Our $75 million unsecured line of credit with PNC Bank, N.A. was established more than five years ago and was renewed effective August 30, 2010, for a one year term to expire on August 28, 2011. CFC Investment Company also is a borrower under this line of credit. PNC Bank is a subsidiary of The PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (NYSE:PNC). The second line of credit is an unsecured $150 million revolving line of credit administered by The Huntington National Bank. It was established in 2007 and will mature in 2012. CFC Investment Company also is a borrower under this line of credit. At year end 2010, there was $49 million outstanding on this line of credit. The Huntington National Bank, a subsidiary of Huntington Bancshares Inc. (NASDAQ:HBAN), is the lead participant with a $75 million share. U.S. Bancorp (NYSE:USB), Bank of America Corporation (NYSE:BAC) and Northern Trust Corporation (NASDAQ:NTRS) also participate, each providing $25 million of capacity. This line of credit includes a swing line sub facility for same day borrowing in the amount of $35 million. The credit agreement provides alternative interest charges based on the type of borrowing and our debt rating. The interest rate charged for an advancement is adjusted LIBOR plus the applicable margin. Based on our debt ratings at year end 2010, interest for Eurodollar rate advances is adjusted LIBOR plus 33 basis points, and for floating rate advances is adjusted LIBOR. Utilization and commitment fees based on Cincinnati Financial Corporations year end 2010 debt rating are 5 basis points and 8 basis points, respectively. Capital Resources Capital resources represent our overall financial strength to support writing and growing our insurance businesses. At December 31, 2010, we had total shareholders equity of $5.032 billion, an increase of $272 million, or 6 percent, from the prior year. Our total debt was $839 million, unchanged from a year ago. We seek to maintain a solid financial position and provide capital flexibility by keeping our ratio of debt to total capital moderate. We target a ratio below 20 percent. At year end 2010, the ratio was 14.3 percent compared with 15.0 percent at year end 2009. The decrease in the debt to total capital ratio was due entirely to the increase in shareholders equity at year end 2010. At the discretion of the board of directors, the company can return cash directly to shareholders: Dividends to shareholders The ability of the company to continue paying cash dividends is subject to factors the board of directors may deem relevant. While the board and management believe there is merit to sustaining the companys record of dividend increases, our first priority is the companys financial strength. Over the past 10 years, the company has paid an average of 46.9 percent of net income as dividends. Through 2010, the board had increased our cash dividend for 50 consecutive years. The board decision in August 2010 to increase the dividend demonstrated confidence in the companys strong capital, liquidity, financial flexibility and initiatives to improve earnings performance. 80 Common stock repurchase Generally, our board believes that share repurchases can help fulfill our commitment to enhancing shareholder value. Consequently, the board has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares, giving management discretion to purchase shares at reasonable prices in light of circumstances at the time of purchase, pursuant to U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations. Consistent with our approach since mid 2008, we chose to preserve capital and repurchased a minimal amount of shares. Recent repurchases have been intended to partially offset the issuance of shares through equity compensation plans, primarily due to vesting of service based restricted stock units of equity awards granted in the past. During the first half of 2008, we repurchased 3.8 million shares. In the past, repurchases have occurred when we believed that stock prices on the open market were favorable for such repurchases. Our corporate Code of Conduct restricts repurchases during certain time periods. The details of the repurchase authorizations and activity are described in Item 5, Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, Page 31. Obligations We pay obligations to customers, suppliers and associates in the normal course of our business operations. Some are contractual obligations that define the amount, circumstances and or timing of payments. We have other commitments for business expenditures; however, the amount, circumstances and or timing of our other commitments are not dictated by contractual arrangements. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2010, we estimate our future contractual obligations as follows: (In millions) Year Years Years There Payment due by period 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 after Total Gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments $ 1,306 $ 1,325 $ 583 $ 923 $ 4,137 Gross life policyholder obligations 108 160 212 3,368 3,848 Interest on long term debt 52 104 104 786 1,046 Long term debt 0 0 0 793 793 Short term debt 49 0 0 0 49 Profit sharing commissions 77 0 0 0 77 Capital lease obligations 11 7 1 0 19 Computer hardware and software 21 24 5 0 50 Other invested assets 4 5 0 0 9 Total $ 1,628 $ 1,625 $ 905 $ 5,870 $ 10,028 Our two most significant contractual obligations are discussed in conjunction with related insurance reserves in Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments and Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations beginning on Pages 82 and 89, respectively. Other future contractual obligations include: Interest on long and short term debt We expect total interest expense to be approximately $52 million in 2011. We discuss outstanding debt in Additional Sources of Liquidity, Page 79. Property casualty profit sharing commissions Profit sharing, or contingent, commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account agency profitability and other factors. We estimate 2011 contingent commission payments of approximately $77 million. We discuss commission expense trends in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 54 and Page 64, respectively. Computer hardware and software We expect to spend $45 million over the next three years for current material commitments for computer hardware and software, including maintenance contracts on hardware and other known obligations. We discuss below the non contractual expenses we anticipate for computer hardware and software in 2011. Other Commitments As of December 31, 2010, we believe our most significant other commitments are: Qualified pension plan In 2011, we made a voluntary cash contribution of $35 million to our qualified pension plan. We currently estimate a $13 million net pension expense and a $8 million expense for company 401(k) contributions. Going forward, we anticipate a lower cash pension contribution. Commissions We expect commission payments to generally track with written premiums. Other operating expenses Many of our operating expenses are not contractual obligations but reflect the ongoing expenses of our business. In addition to contractual obligations for hardware and software discussed above, we anticipate capitalizing approximately $8 million in spending for key technology initiatives in 2011. Capitalized development costs related to key technology initiatives totaled $7 million in 2010, $28 million in 2009 and $38 million in 2008. These activities are conducted at our discretion, and we have no material contractual obligations for activities planned as part of these projects. 81 Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook A long term perspective governs our liquidity and capital resources decisions, with the goal of benefiting our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates over time. While our insurance results for 2010 and 2009 did not meet our combined ratio objective of being consistently below 100 percent, our improved capital position since year end 2008 provided adequate cushion. We have taken the necessary steps to protect our capital and are confident in our strategies to return our insurance operations to growth and profitability. Our consistent cash flows and prudent cash balances continue to create strong liquidity. As of December 31, 2010, we had $385 million in cash and cash equivalents. That strong liquidity and our consistent cash flows gives us the flexibility to meet current obligations and commitments while building value by prudently investing where we see potential for both current income and long term return. In any year, we consider the most likely source of pressure on liquidity would be an unusually high level of catastrophe loss payments within a short period of time. There could also be additional obligations for our insurance operations due to increasing severity or frequency of non catastrophe claims. To address the risk of unusual insurance loss obligations including catastrophe events, we maintain property casualty reinsurance contracts with highly rated reinsurers, as discussed under 2011 Reinsurance Programs, Page 90. We also monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers because an insolvency could place in jeopardy a portion of our $572 million in outstanding reinsurance recoverables as of December 31, 2010. Continued economic weakness also has the potential to affect our liquidity and capital resources in a number of different ways, including: delinquent payments from agencies, defaults on interest payments by fixed maturity holdings in our portfolio, dividend reductions by holdings in our equity portfolio or declines in the market value of holdings in our portfolio. Further, parent company liquidity could be constrained by State of Ohio regulatory requirements that restrict the dividends insurance subsidiaries can pay. During 2011, total dividends that our insurance subsidiary can pay to our parent company without regulatory approval are approximately $378 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not use any special purpose financing vehicles or have any undisclosed off balance sheet arrangements (as that term is defined in applicable SEC rules) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the companys financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Similarly, the company holds no fair value contracts for which a lack of marketplace quotations would necessitate the use of fair value techniques. Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments Our estimate of future gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments of $4.137 billion is lower than loss and loss expense reserves of $4.200 billion as of year end 2010. The $63 million difference is due to life and health loss reserves, as discussed in Item 8, Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 117. While we believe that historical performance of property casualty and life loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claim payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. We believe that we could meet our obligations under a significant and unexpected change in the timing of these payments because of the liquidity of our invested assets, strong financial position and access to lines of credit. Our estimates of gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments do not include reinsurance receivables or ceded losses. As discussed in 2011 Reinsurance Programs, Page 90, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our property casualty risk exposure. Ceded property casualty reinsurance unpaid receivables of $326 million at year end 2010 are an offset to our gross property casualty loss and loss expense obligations. Our reinsurance program mitigates the liquidity risk of a single large loss or an unexpected rise in claim severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover losses under our reinsurance agreements depends on the financial viability of the reinsurers. We direct our associates and agencies to settle claims and pay losses as quickly as is practical and we made $1.865 billion of net claim payments during 2010. At year end 2010, net property casualty reserves reflected $2.076 billion in unpaid amounts on reported claims (case reserves), $877 million in loss expense reserves and $858 million in estimates of claims that were incurred but had not yet been reported (IBNR). The specific amounts and timing of obligations related to case reserves and associated loss expenses are not set contractually. The amounts and timing of obligations for IBNR claims and related loss expenses are unknown. We discuss our methods of establishing loss and loss expense reserves and our belief that reserves are 82 adequate in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 82. The historical pattern of using premium receipts for the payment of loss and loss expenses has enabled us to extend slightly the maturities of our investment portfolio beyond the estimated settlement date of the loss reserves. The effective duration of our consolidated fixed maturity portfolio was 5.0 years at year end 2010. By contrast, the duration of our loss and loss expense reserves was approximately three and one half years. We believe this difference in duration does not affect our ability to meet current obligations because cash flow from operations is sufficient to meet these obligations. In addition, investment holdings could be sold, if necessary, to meet higher than anticipated loss and loss expenses. Range of Reasonable Reserves The company established a reasonably likely range for net loss and loss expense reserves of $3.571 billion to $3.952 billion at year end 2010, with the company carrying net reserves of $3.811 billion. The likely range was $3.459 billion to $3.774 billion at year end 2009, with the company carrying net reserves of $3.661 billion. Our loss and loss expense reserves are not discounted for the time value of money, but we have reduced the reserves by an estimate of the amount of salvage and subrogation payments we expect to recover. We provide a reconciliation of the property casualty reserves with the loss and loss expense reserve as shown on the balance sheet in Item 8, Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 117. The low point of each years range corresponds to approximately one standard error below each years mean reserve estimate, while the high point corresponds to approximately one standard error above each years mean reserve estimate. We discussed managements reasons for basing reasonably likely reserve ranges on standard errors in Critical Accounting Estimates, Reserve Estimate Variability, Page 43. The ranges reflect our assessment of the most likely unpaid loss and loss expenses at year end 2010 and 2009. However, actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges. Managements best estimate of total loss and loss expense reserves as of year end 2010 was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate. Managements best estimate of total loss and loss expense reserves as of year end 2009 also was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate. Development of Reserves for Loss and Loss Expenses We reconcile the beginning and ending balances of our reserves for loss and loss expenses at December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, in Item 8, Note 5 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 117. The reconciliation of our year end 2009 reserve balance to net incurred losses one year later recognizes approximately $304 million of favorable reserve development. The table on the following page shows the development of estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses for the past 10 years. Section A shows our total property casualty loss and loss expense reserves recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated calendar years on a gross and net basis. Those reserves represent the estimated amount of unpaid loss and loss expenses for claims arising in the indicated calendar year and all prior accident years at the balance sheet date, including losses that were incurred but not yet reported to the company. Section B shows the cumulative net amount paid with respect to the previously recorded reserve as of the end of each succeeding year. For example, as of December 31, 2010, we had paid $1.797 billion of loss and loss expenses in calendar years 2001 through 2010 for losses that occurred in accident years 2000 and prior. An estimated $237 million of losses remained unpaid as of year end 2010 (net re estimated reserves of $2.034 billion from Section C less cumulative net paid loss and loss expenses of $1.797 billion). Section C shows the re estimated amount of the previously reported reserves based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as we learn more about the development of the related claims. Section D, cumulative net reserve development, represents the aggregate change in the estimates for all years subsequent to the year the reserves were initially established. For example, reserves established at December 31, 2000, had developed favorably by $148 million over 10 years, net of reinsurance, which was reflected in income over the 10 years. The table shows favorable reserve development as a negative number. Favorable reserve development on prior accident years, which represents a negative expense, is favorable to income. The One year later line in the table shows the effects on income before income taxes in 2010, 2009 and 2008 of changes in estimates of the reserves for loss and loss expenses for all accident years. The effect was favorable to pretax income for those three years by $304 million, $188 million, and $323 million, respectively. Our annual review has led us to add to income in each of the past 22 years due to favorable development of reserves on prior accident years. 83 In evaluating the development of our estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses for the past 10 years, note that each amount includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior periods. For example, payments or reserve adjustments related to losses settled in 2010 but incurred in 2004 are included in the cumulative deficiency or redundancy amount for 2004 and each subsequent year. In addition, this table presents calendar year data, not accident or policy year development data, which readers may be more accustomed to analyzing. Conditions and trends that affected development of reserves in the past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to extrapolate future reserve development based on this data. Differences between the property casualty reserves reported in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets (prepared in accordance with GAAP) and those same reserves reported in the annual statements (filed with state insurance departments in accordance with statutory accounting practices SAP), relate principally to the reporting of reinsurance recoverables, which are recognized as receivables for GAAP and as an offset to reserves for SAP. Development of Estimated Reserves for Loss and Loss Expenses (In millions) Calendar year ended December 31, 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 A. Originally reported reserves for unpaid loss and loss expenses: Gross of reinsurance $ 2,401 $ 2,865 $ 3,150 $ 3,386 $ 3,514 $ 3,629 $ 3,860 $ 3,925 $ 4,040 $ 4,096 $ 4,137 Reinsurance recoverable 219 513 542 541 537 518 504 528 542 435 326 Net of reinsurance $ 2,182 $ 2,352 $ 2,608 $ 2,845 $ 2,977 $ 3,111 $ 3,356 $ 3,397 $ 3,498 $ 3,661 $ 3,811 B. Cumulative net paid as of: One year later $ 697 $ 758 $ 799 $ 817 $ 907 $ 944 $ 1,006 $ 979 $ 994 $ 926 Two years later 1,116 1,194 1,235 1,293 1,426 1,502 1,547 1,523 1,529 Three years later 1,378 1,455 1,519 1,626 1,758 1,845 1,896 1,857 Four years later 1,526 1,614 1,716 1,823 1,963 2,059 2,096 Five years later 1,623 1,717 1,823 1,945 2,096 2,176 Six years later 1,680 1,778 1,889 2,031 2,163 Seven years later 1,717 1,819 1,940 2,077 Eight years later 1,750 1,855 1,973 Nine years later 1,778 1,879 Ten years later 1,797 C. Net reserves re estimated as of: One year later $ 2,120 $ 2,307 $ 2,528 $ 2,649 $ 2,817 $ 2,995 $ 3,112 $ 3,074 $ 3,310 $ 3,357 Two years later 2,083 2,263 2,377 2,546 2,743 2,871 2,893 3,042 3,197 Three years later 2,052 2,178 2,336 2,489 2,657 2,724 2,898 3,005 Four years later 2,010 2,153 2,299 2,452 2,578 2,776 2,907 Five years later 1,999 2,127 2,276 2,414 2,645 2,788 Six years later 1,992 2,122 2,259 2,469 2,662 Seven years later 1,994 2,111 2,298 2,491 Eight years later 1,986 2,147 2,318 Nine years later 2,018 2,165 Ten years later 2,034 D. Cumulative net redundancy as of: One year later $ (62 ) $ (45 ) $ (80 ) $ (196 ) $ (160 ) $ (116 ) $ (244 ) $ (323 ) $ (188 ) $ (304 ) Two years later (99 ) (89 ) (231 ) (299 ) (234 ) (240 ) (463 ) (355 ) (301 ) Three years later (130 ) (174 ) (272 ) (356 ) (320 ) (387 ) (458 ) (392 ) Four years later (172 ) (199 ) (309 ) (393 ) (399 ) (335 ) (449 ) Five years later (183 ) (225 ) (332 ) (431 ) (332 ) (323 ) Six years later (190 ) (230 ) (349 ) (376 ) (315 ) Seven years later (188 ) (241 ) (310 ) (354 ) Eight years later (196 ) (205 ) (290 ) Nine years later (164 ) (187 ) Ten years later (148 ) Net reserves re estimatedlatest $ 2,034 $ 2,165 $ 2,318 $ 2,491 $ 2,662 $ 2,788 $ 2,907 $ 3,005 $ 3,197 $ 3,357 Re estimated recoverablelatest 250 482 514 495 514 478 471 457 489 393 Gross liability re estimatedlatest $ 2,284 $ 2,647 $ 2,832 $ 2,986 $ 3,176 $ 3,266 $ 3,378 $ 3,462 $ 3,686 $ 3,750 Cumulative gross redundancy $ (117 ) $ (218 ) $ (318 ) $ (400 ) $ (338 ) $ (363 ) $ (482 ) $ (463 ) $ (354 ) $ (346 ) Asbestos and Environmental Reserves We carried $134 million of net loss and loss expense reserves for asbestos and environmental claims as of year end 2010, compared with $118 million for such claims as of year end 2009. These amounts constitute 3.5 percent and 3.2 percent of total loss and loss expense reserves as of these year end dates. We believe our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims is limited, largely because our reinsurance retention was $500,000 or below prior to 1987. We also predominantly were a personal lines company in the 1960s and 1970s when asbestos and pollution exclusions were not widely used. During the 1980s and early 84 1990s, commercial lines grew as a percentage of our overall business and our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims grew accordingly. Over that period, we endorsed to or included in most policies an asbestos and environmental exclusion. Additionally, since 2002, we have revised policy terms where permitted by state regulation to limit our exposure to mold claims prospectively and further reduce our exposure to other environmental claims generally. Finally, we have not engaged in any mergers or acquisitions through which such a liability could have been assumed. We continue to monitor our claims for evidence of material exposure to other mass tort classes such as silicosis, but we have found no such credible evidence to date. Reserving data for asbestos and environmental claims has characteristics that limit the usefulness of the methods and models used to analyze loss and loss expense reserves for other claims. Specifically, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expenses for different accident years do not emerge independently of one another as loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods assume. In addition, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expense data available to date does not reflect a well defined tail, greatly complicating the identification of an appropriate probabilistic trend family model. Due to these considerations, our actuarial staff elected to use a paid survival ratio method to estimate reserves for incurred but not yet reported asbestos and environmental claims. Although highly uncertain, reserve estimates obtained via this method have developed in a reasonably stable fashion since 2004. Since our exposure to such claims is limited, we believe the paid survival ratio method is sufficient. Reserves for asbestos and environmental claims increased in 2010 as a result of changes in the identification of asbestos and environmental losses and is not related to new or additional asbestos and environmental exposures. Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves For the business lines in the commercial lines insurance segment, the following table shows the components of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. Total gross reserves for the segment in total grew less than 1 percent from year end 2009. (In millions) Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2010 Commercial casualty $ 966 $ 321 $ 533 $ 1,820 48.8 % Commercial property 130 13 32 175 4.7 Commercial auto 258 41 60 359 9.6 Workers compensation 476 465 147 1,088 29.2 Specialty packages 80 2 10 92 2.5 Surety and executive risk 130 2 57 189 5.1 Machinery and equipment 1 3 1 5 0.1 Total $ 2,041 $ 847 $ 840 $ 3,728 100.0 % At December 31, 2009 Commercial casualty $ 1,044 $ 309 $ 540 $ 1,893 50.8 % Commercial property 84 15 31 130 3.5 Commercial auto 266 47 65 378 10.1 Workers compensation 452 458 143 1,053 28.3 Specialty packages 68 5 10 83 2.2 Surety and executive risk 128 (2 ) 55 181 4.9 Machinery and equipment 2 3 1 6 0.2 Total $ 2,044 $ 835 $ 845 $ 3,724 100.0 % 85 The following table shows net reserve changes at year end 2010, 2009 and 2008 by commercial line of business and accident year: (In millions) Commercial Commercial Commercial Workers Specialty Surety & Machinery & casualty property auto compensation packages exec risk equipment Totals As of December 31, 2010 2009 accident year $ (105 ) $ (8 ) $ (22 ) $ (54 ) $ 0 $ 14 $ (1 ) $ (176 ) 2008 accident year (51 ) 0 (9 ) 5 0 (6 ) (1 ) (62 ) 2007 accident year (33 ) (1 ) (5 ) (1 ) (2 ) (1 ) 0 (43 ) 2006 accident year (5 ) 0 3 5 0 (3 ) 0 0 2005 accident year 0 (1 ) (1 ) (5 ) (1 ) (1 ) 0 (9 ) 2004 accident year (4 ) 0 1 0 1 0 0 (2 ) 2003 and prior accident years 12 0 0 11 0 0 0 23 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (186 ) $ (10 ) $ (33 ) $ (39 ) $ (2 ) $ 3 $ (2 ) $ (269 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2009 $ 1,605 $ 115 $ 374 $ 975 $ 81 $ 153 $ 5 $ 3,308 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2010 1,419 105 341 936 79 156 3 3,039 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (186 ) $ (10 ) $ (33 ) $ (39 ) $ (2 ) $ 3 $ (2 ) $ (269 ) As of December 31, 2009 2008 accident year $ (89 ) $ (15 ) $ (13 ) $ (11 ) $ (4 ) $ (2 ) $ 0 $ (134 ) 2007 accident year (36 ) 0 (5 ) 5 2 9 (1 ) (26 ) 2006 accident year (33 ) 4 (4 ) 2 0 (3 ) (1 ) (35 ) 2005 accident year (17 ) (1 ) 1 6 2 (5 ) 0 (14 ) 2004 accident year 3 (2 ) 0 6 1 0 0 8 2003 accident year 9 (1 ) 1 6 0 0 0 15 2002 and prior accident years 9 (1 ) 0 34 (1 ) (2 ) 0 39 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (154 ) $ (16 ) $ (20 ) $ 48 $ 0 $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ (147 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2008 $ 1,559 $ 136 $ 385 $ 842 $ 82 $ 130 $ 7 $ 3,141 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2009 1,405 120 365 890 82 127 5 2,994 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (154 ) $ (16 ) $ (20 ) $ 48 $ 0 $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ (147 ) As of December 31, 2008 2007 accident year $ (93 ) $ 0 $ (7 ) $ (21 ) $ 1 $ 14 $ 0 $ (106 ) 2006 accident year (55 ) (7 ) 5 0 (1 ) (2 ) 1 (59 ) 2005 accident year (48 ) (2 ) (1 ) 5 (2 ) (2 ) 0 (50 ) 2004 accident year (27 ) 1 (4 ) 4 (2 ) (3 ) 0 (31 ) 2003 accident year (19 ) 0 1 6 0 (1 ) 0 (13 ) 2002 accident year (4 ) 0 (2 ) 1 0 1 0 (4 ) 2001 and prior accident years (11 ) (2 ) 0 3 0 0 0 (10 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (257 ) $ (10 ) $ (8 ) $ (2 ) $ (4 ) $ 7 $ 1 $ (273 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2007 $ 1,565 $ 121 $ 383 $ 777 $ 76 $ 94 $ 8 $ 3,024 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2008 1,308 111 375 775 72 101 9 2,751 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (257 ) $ (10 ) $ (8 ) $ (2 ) $ (4 ) $ 7 $ 1 $ (273 ) Overall favorable development for commercial lines reserves of $269 million in 2010 illustrated the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially for long tail lines such as commercial casualty and workers compensation. Favorable reserve development of $186 million for the commercial casualty line accounted for approximately 70 percent of the segment total in 2010, while favorable reserve development of $39 million for the workers compensation line accounted for approximately 15 percent of the segment total in 2010. Drivers of significant reserve development are discussed below. Moderation in commercial casualty trend selections We saw moderating loss cost trends continue in several commercial casualty coverages, most notably for umbrella coverage. A number of factors seem to have played a role, including a slow economic recovery, favorable court decisions, policy form restrictions, and claims department initiatives. Accordingly, it is not entirely clear whether these moderating loss cost trends will persist, and our actuaries have responded cautiously to these changes, electing to recognize improvements in trends used for estimating reserves in a progressive, incremental fashion. Commercial casualty loss emergence As in 2009, commercial multiple peril liability coverages contributed to favorable reserve development because both paid loss and reported loss emergence deviated favorably from projections. Actual paid losses in calendar year 2010 fell short of the amount projected at year end 2009 by more than $20 million. Reported losses for accident years 2007 through 2009 also developed more favorably than expected, while reported loss development related to other accident years aligned more closely with expectations. Commercial auto loss emergence Similar to commercial casualty, commercial auto liability contributed to favorable development because both paid and reported loss emergence during calendar year 2010 was substantially less than expected. As of December 31, 2009 we expected reported loss emergence in the next 12 calendar months to be approximately $26 million; actual emergence was $17 million. Paid loss emergence was approximately 15 percent lower than expected at the prior year end. 86 Workers compensation trends and initiatives Favorable calendar year development was $39 million. Accident year 2009 contributed $54 million in favorable development while accident years 2003 and prior developed adversely by $11 million. Higher than anticipated trend continues to plague the older accident years causing us to raise our paid loss trend estimate for the second year in a row. However, projections of ultimate loss for accident years 2004 2008 held steady. The improvement in accident year 2009 is likely an early manifestation of several claims initiatives begun in the first part of 2010, as discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Commercial Lines of Business Analysis, Page 58. An examination of factors contributing to the remaining $9 million of commercial lines favorable reserve development, not accounted for by the commercial casualty, commercial auto and workers compensation lines, did not turn up any abnormal or unexpected variations. As noted in Critical Accounting Estimates, Key Assumptions Loss Reserving, Page 43, our models predict that actual loss and loss expense emergence will differ from projections, and we do not attempt to monitor or identify such normal variations. Personal Lines Insurance Segment Reserves For the business lines in the personal lines insurance segment, the following table shows the components of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. Total gross reserves for the segment in total were fairly stable, up approximately 1 percent from year end 2009. (In millions) Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2010 Personal auto $ 126 $ (1 ) $ 28 $ 153 43.4 % Homeowner 73 21 17 111 31.4 Other personal 37 43 9 89 25.2 Total $ 236 $ 63 $ 54 $ 353 100.0 % At December 31, 2009 Personal auto $ 130 $ (4 ) $ 28 $ 154 44.2 % Homeowner 56 26 17 99 28.4 Other personal 45 42 9 96 27.4 Total $ 231 $ 64 $ 54 $ 349 100.0 % 87 The following table shows net reserve changes at year end 2010, 2009 and 2008 by personal line of business and accident year: (In millions) Personal Other auto Homeowner personal Totals As of December 31, 2010 2009 accident year $ (2 ) $ (3 ) $ (8 ) $ (13 ) 2008 accident year (2 ) (3 ) (8 ) (13 ) 2007 accident year 1 0 (3 ) (2 ) 2006 accident year (1 ) 0 (2 ) (3 ) 2005 accident year (1 ) 0 2 1 2004 accident year (1 ) 0 (1 ) (2 ) 2003 and prior accident years (1 ) 0 (1 ) (2 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (7 ) $ (6 ) $ (21 ) $ (34 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2009 $ 154 $ 89 $ 89 $ 332 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2010 147 83 68 298 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (7 ) $ (6 ) $ (21 ) $ (34 ) As of December 31, 2009 2008 accident year $ (3 ) $ (2 ) $ (17 ) $ (22 ) 2007 accident year (3 ) 3 (12 ) (12 ) 2006 accident year (1 ) 0 (10 ) (11 ) 2005 accident year 1 0 (1 ) 0 2004 accident year 0 0 5 5 2003 accident year 0 (1 ) 2 1 2002 and prior accident years 0 0 (1 ) (1 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (6 ) $ 0 $ (34 ) $ (40 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2008 $ 165 $ 82 $ 106 $ 353 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2009 159 82 72 313 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (6 ) $ 0 $ (34 ) $ (40 ) As of December 31, 2008 2007 accident year $ 11 $ (1 ) $ (8 ) $ 2 2006 accident year (4 ) (3 ) (5 ) (12 ) 2005 accident year (9 ) (1 ) (8 ) (18 ) 2004 accident year (5 ) (2 ) (3 ) (10 ) 2003 accident year (3 ) (1 ) (4 ) (8 ) 2002 accident year (1 ) 0 (1 ) (2 ) 2001 and prior accident years (1 ) 0 (1 ) (2 ) Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (12 ) $ (8 ) $ (30 ) $ (50 ) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2007 $ 189 $ 77 $ 107 $ 373 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2008 177 69 77 323 Deficiency/(redundancy) $ (12 ) $ (8 ) $ (30 ) $ (50 ) Favorable development for personal lines segment reserves illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. Several factors discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Reserves, Page 85, that contributed to commercial lines segment reserve development in 2010 also contributed to personal lines favorable reserve development, most notably the factors related to umbrella coverage in the other personal line of business. In consideration of the datas credibility, we analyze commercial and personal umbrella liability reserves together and then allocate the derived total reserve estimate to the commercial and personal coverages. Consequently, all of the umbrella factors that contributed to commercial lines reserve development also contributed to personal lines reserve development through the other personal line, of which personal umbrella coverages are a part. 88 Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Segment Reserves For the excess and surplus lines insurance segment, the following table shows the components of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. Total gross reserves were up from year end 2009 primarily due to the increase in premiums and exposures for this segment, as we discussed in Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 70. Favorable development during 2010 of $1 million for excess and surplus lines insurance segment reserves illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. Factors affecting the modest favorable reserve development included the lack of a sufficiently long experience period on which to base reserve estimates. (In millions) Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense Gross reserves reserves reserves Reserves At December 31, 2010 Excess and surplus lines $ 29 $ 10 $ 17 $ 56 At December 31, 2009 Excess and surplus lines $ 10 $ 5 $ 7 $ 22 Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations and Reserves Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations Our estimates of life, annuity and disability policyholder obligations reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders for future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and separate account liabilities. These estimates include death and disability income claims, policy surrenders, policy maturities, annuity payments, minimum guarantees on separate account products, commissions and premium taxes offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in force contracts. Our estimates of gross life, annuity and disability obligations do not reflect net recoveries from reinsurance agreements. Ceded life reinsurance receivables were $228 million at year end 2010. As discussed in 2011 Reinsurance Programs, Page 90, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our life insurance risk exposure. At year end 2010, ceded death benefits represented approximately 47.2 percent of our total policy face amounts in force. These estimated cash outflows are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows for all years of $3.848 billion (total of life insurance obligations) exceeds the liabilities recorded in life policy reserves and separate accounts for future policy benefits and claims of $2.692 billion (total of life insurance policy reserves and separate account policy reserves). Separate account policy reserves make up all but $3 million of separate accounts liabilities. We have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these policies and contracts that include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates and interest crediting rates. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the amounts presented could materially differ from actual results. Life Insurance Reserves Gross life policy reserves were $2.034 billion at year end 2010, compared with $1.783 billion at year end 2009. The increase was primarily due to reserves for deferred annuities. We establish reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions. We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments. We regularly review our life insurance business to ensure that any deferred acquisition cost associated with the business is recoverable and that our actuarial liabilities (life insurance segment reserves) make sufficient provision for future benefits and related expenses. 89 2011 Reinsurance Programs A single large loss or an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event could present us with a liquidity risk. In an effort to control such losses, we avoid marketing property casualty insurance in specific geographic areas and monitor our exposure in certain coastal regions. An example of this would be our recent depopulation of homeowner policies in the southeastern coastal region. This area was identified as a major contributor to our catastrophe probable maximum loss estimates and has subsequently been greatly reduced. We also continually review aggregate exposures to huge disasters and purchase reinsurance protection to cover these exposures. We use the Risk Management Solutions (RMS) and Applied Insurance Research (AIR) models to evaluate exposures to a once in a 100 year and a once in a 250 year event to help determine appropriate reinsurance coverage programs. In conjunction with these activities, we also continue to evaluate information provided by our reinsurance broker. These various sources explore and analyze credible scientific evidence, including the impact of global climate change, which may affect our exposure under insurance policies. To help determine appropriate reinsurance coverage for hurricane, earthquake, and tornado/hail exposures, we use the RMS and AIR models to estimate the probable maximum loss from a single event occurring in a oneyear period. The models are proprietary in nature, and the vendors that provide them periodically update the models, sometimes resulting in significant changes to their estimate of probable maximum loss. As of the end of 2010, both models indicated a hurricane event represents our largest amount of exposure to losses. The table below summarizes estimated probabilities and the corresponding probable maximum loss from a single event occurring in a oneyear period for that exposure, and indicates the effect of such losses on consolidated shareholders equity as of December 31, 2010. Net losses are net of reinsurance and income taxes. The modeled losses according to RMS in the table are based on their RiskLink version 10.0 catastrophe model and utilize a nearterm storm catalog methodology. The near term storm catalog theory is a more conservative approach and places a higher weighting on the increased hurricane activity of the past several years, thus producing higher probable maximum loss projections than a longer term view. The modeled losses according to AIR in the table are based on their AIR Clasic/2 version 12 catastrophe model and utilize a long term methodology. The AIR storm catalog includes decades of documented weather events used in simulations for probably maximum loss projections. (Dollars in millions) RMS AIR Percent Percent Gross Net of total Gross Net of total Probability Losses Losses equity Losses Losses equity 2.0% of a 1 in 50 year event $ 369 $ 53 1.0 % $ 329 $ 51 1.0 % 1.0% of a 1 in 100 year event 548 89 1.8 514 67 1.3 0.4% of a 1 in 250 year event 882 306 6.1 842 280 5.6 0.2% of a 1 in 500 year event 1,195 509 10.1 1,031 402 8.0 Reinsurance mitigates the risk of highly uncertain exposures and limits the maximum net loss that can arise from large risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure. Managements decisions about the appropriate level of risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in our underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover for losses covered under any reinsurance agreement depends on the financial viability of the reinsurer. Currently participating on our standard market property and casualty per risk and per occurrence programs are Hannover Reinsurance Company, Munich Reinsurance America, Partner Reinsurance Company of the U.S. and Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation, all of which have A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings of A (Excellent) or A+ (Superior). Our property catastrophe program is subscribed through a broker by reinsurers from the United States, Bermuda, London and the European markets. Primary components of the 2011 property and casualty reinsurance program include: Property per risk treaty The primary purpose of the property treaty is to provide capacity up to $25 million, adequate for the majority of the risks we write. It also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $6 million of each loss. Losses between $6 million and $25 million are reinsured at 100 percent. The ceded premium is estimated at $32 million for 2011, compared with $36 million in 2010 and $35 million in 2009. The lower ceded premium for 2011 compared with 2010 is largely due to raising our loss retention of each loss from $5 million to $6 million. Casualty per occurrence treaty The casualty treaty provides capacity up to $25 million. Similar to the property treaty, it provides sufficient capacity to cover the vast majority of casualty accounts we insure and also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $6 million of each loss. Losses between $6 million and $25 million are reinsured at 100 percent. The ceded 90 premium is estimated at $37 million in 2011, similar to the $37 million paid in 2010 and $38 million in 2009. Casualty excess treaties We purchase a casualty reinsurance treaty that provides an additional $25 million in protection for certain casualty losses. This treaty, along with the casualty per occurrence treaty, provides a total of $50 million of protection for workers compensation, extra contractual liability coverage and clash coverage losses, which would apply when a single occurrence involves multiple policyholders of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies or multiple coverages for one insured. The ceded premium is estimated at approximately $2 million in 2011, similar to the premium we paid in 2010 and 2009. We purchase a second casualty excess treaty, which provides an additional $20 million in casualty loss coverage. This treaty also provides catastrophic coverage for workers compensation and extra contractual liability coverage losses. The ceded premium is estimated at approximately $1 million for 2011, similar to the premium we paid in 2010 and 2009. Property catastrophe treaty To protect against catastrophic events such as wind and hail, hurricanes or earthquakes, we purchase property catastrophe reinsurance with a limit up to $500 million. For the 2011 treaty, ceded premiums are estimated at $49 million, similar to the $49 million in 2010 and $50 million in 2009. We retain the first $45 million of any loss and varying shares of losses up to $500 million: o 38.5 percent of losses between $45 million and $70 million o 17.6 percent of losses between $70 million and $105 million o 5.0 percent of losses between $105 million and $200 million o 11.3 percent of losses between $200 million and $300 million o 6.5 percent of losses between $300 million and $400 million o 5.0 percent of losses between $400 million and $500 million After reinsurance, our maximum exposure to a catastrophic event that caused $500 million in covered losses would be $88 million compared with $104 million in 2010. The largest catastrophe loss in our history was Hurricane Ike in September 2008, which was estimated to be $142 million before reinsurance at December 31, 2010. The treaty contains one reinstatement provision. Individual risks with insured values in excess of $25 million, as identified in the policy, are handled through a different reinsurance mechanism. We typically reinsure property coverage for individual risks with insured values between $25 million and $65 million under an automatic facultative agreement. For risks with property values exceeding $65 million, we negotiate the purchase of facultative coverage on an individual certificate basis. For casualty coverage on individual risks with limits exceeding $25 million, facultative reinsurance coverage is placed on an individual certificate basis. For risks with property or casualty limits which are between $25 million and $27 million, we sometimes forego facultative reinsurance and retain an additional $2 million of loss exposure. Terrorism coverage at various levels has been secured in most of our reinsurance agreements. The broadest coverage for this peril is found in the property and casualty working treaties, the property per risk treaty and the casualty per occurrence treaty, which provide coverage for commercial and personal risks. Our property catastrophe treaty provides terrorism coverage for personal risks, and coverage for commercial risks with total insured values of $10 million or less. For insured values between $10 million and $25 million, there also may be coverage in the property working treaty. A form of reinsurance is also provided through The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA). TRIA was originally signed into law on November 26, 2002, and extended on December 22, 2005, in a revised form, and extended again on December 26, 2007. TRIA provides a temporary federal backstop for losses related to the writing of the terrorism peril in property casualty insurance policies. TRIA now is scheduled to expire December 31, 2014. Under regulations promulgated under this statute, insurers are required to offer terrorism coverage for certain lines of property casualty insurance, including property, commercial multi peril, fire, ocean marine, inland marine, liability, aircraft and workers compensation. In the event of a terrorism event defined by TRIA, the federal government would reimburse terrorism claim payments subject to the insurers deductible. The deductible is calculated as a percentage of subject written premiums for the preceding calendar year. Our deductible in 2010 was $369 million (20 percent of 2009 subject premiums), and we estimate it is $366 million (20 percent of 2010 subject premiums) in 2011. Reinsurance protection for the companys surety business is covered under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. 91 The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, which began issuing insurance policies in 2008, has separate property and casualty reinsurance treaties for 2011 through The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Primary components of the treaties include: Property per risk treaty The property treaty provides limits up to $5 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. It also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company retains the first $1 million of any policy loss. Losses between $1 million and $5 million are reinsured at 100 percent by The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Casualty treaties The casualty treaty is written on an excess of loss basis and provide limits up to $6 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. A second treaty layer of $5 million excess of $6 million is written to provide coverage for extra contractual obligations or clash exposures. The maximum retention for any one casualty loss is $1 million by The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company. Losses between $1 million and $11 million are reinsured at 100 percent by The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Basket retention The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company has purchased this coverage to limit our retention to $1 million in the event that the same occurrence results in both a property and a casualty loss. Property catastrophe treaty As a subsidiary of The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company has been added as a named insured under our corporate property catastrophe treaty. All terms and conditions of this treaty apply to policies underwritten by The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company. For property risks with limits exceeding $5 million or casualty risks with limits exceeding $6 million, underwriters place facultative reinsurance coverage on an individual certificate basis. Cincinnati Life, our life insurance subsidiary, purchases reinsurance under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. In 2005, we modified our reinsurance protection for our term life insurance business due to changes in the marketplace that affected the cost and availability of reinsurance for term life insurance. We are retaining no more than a $500,000 exposure, ceding the balance using excess over retention mortality coverage, and retaining the policy reserve. Retaining the policy reserve has no direct impact on GAAP results. However, because of the conservative nature of statutory reserving principles, retaining the policy reserve unduly depresses our statutory earnings and requires a large commitment of our capital. We also have catastrophe reinsurance coverage on our life insurance operations that reimburses us for covered net losses in excess of $9 million. Our recovery is capped at $75 million for losses involving our associates. For term life insurance business written prior to 2005, we retain 10 percent to 25 percent of each term policy, not to exceed $500,000, ceding the balance of mortality risk and policy reserve. Safe Harbor Statement This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 24. Although we often review or update our forward looking statements when events warrant, we caution our readers that we undertake no obligation to do so. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to risk concentrations, changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes Increased frequency and or severity of claims Inadequate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates Recession or other economic conditions resulting in lower demand for insurance products or increased payment delinquencies Delays in adoption and implementation of underwriting and pricing methods that could increase our pricing accuracy, underwriting profit and competitiveness Inability to defer policy acquisition costs for any business segment if pricing and loss trends would lead management to conclude that segment could not achieve sustainable profitability Declines in overall stock market values negatively affecting the companys equity portfolio and book value Events, such as the credit crisis, followed by prolonged periods of economic instability or recession, that lead to: o Significant or prolonged decline in the value of a particular security or group of securities and impairment of the asset(s) o Significant decline in investment income due to reduced or eliminated dividend payouts from a particular security or group of securities o Significant rise in losses from surety and director and officer policies written for financial institutions 92 Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the companys ability to generate growth in investment income or interest rate fluctuations that result in declining values of fixed maturity investments, including declines in accounts in which we hold bank owned life insurance contract assets Increased competition that could result in a significant reduction in the companys premium volume Changing consumer insurance buying habits and consolidation of independent insurance agencies that could alter our competitive advantages Inability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased, financial strength of reinsurers and the potential for non payment or delay in payment by reinsurers Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the companys relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the companys opportunities for growth, such as: o Downgrades of the companys financial strength ratings o Concerns that doing business with the company is too difficult o Perceptions that the companys level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace o Delays or inadequacies in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements Actions of insurance departments, state attorneys general or other regulatory agencies, including a change to a federal system of regulation from a state based system, that: o Restrict our ability to exit or reduce writings of unprofitable coverages or lines of business o Place the insurance industry under greater regulatory scrutiny or result in new statutes, rules and regulations o Add assessments for guaranty funds, other insurance related assessments or mandatory reinsurance arrangements; or that impair our ability to recover such assessments through future surcharges or other rate changes o Increase our provision for federal income taxes due to changes in tax law o Increase our other expenses o Limit our ability to set fair, adequate and reasonable rates o Place us at a disadvantage in the marketplace o Restrict our ability to execute our business model, including the way we compensate agents Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings Events or actions, including unauthorized intentional circumvention of controls, that reduce the companys future ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 Unforeseen departure of certain executive officers or other key employees due to retirement, health or other causes that could interrupt progress toward important strategic goals or diminish the effectiveness of certain longstanding relationships with insurance agents and others Events, such as an epidemic, natural catastrophe or terrorism, that could hamper our ability to assemble our workforce at our headquarters location Difficulties with technology or data security breaches that could negatively affect our ability to conduct business and our relationships with agents, policyholders and others Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Introduction Market risk is the potential for a decrease in securities value resulting from broad yet uncontrollable forces such as: inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions or other widespread unpredictable events. It is comprised of many individual risks that, when combined, create a macroeconomic impact. The company accepts and manages risks in the investment portfolio as part of the means of achieving portfolio objectives. Some of the risks are: Political the potential for a decrease in value due to the real or perceived impact of governmental policies or conditions 93 Regulatory the potential for a decrease in value due to the impact of legislative proposals or changes in laws or regulations Economic the potential for a decrease in value due to changes in general economic factors (recession, inflation, deflation, etc.) Revaluation the potential for a decrease in value due to a change in relative value (change in market multiple) of the market brought on by general economic factors Interest rate the potential for a decrease in value of a security or portfolio due to its sensitivity to changes (increases or decreases) in the general level of interest rates Company specific risk the potential for a particular issuer to experience a decline in value due to the impact of sector or market risk on the holding or because of issues specific to the firm Fraud the potential for a negative impact on an issuers performance due to actual or alleged illegal or improper activity of individuals it employs Credit the potential for deterioration in an issuers financial profile due to specific company issues, problems it faces in the course of its operations or industry related issues Default the possibility that an issuer will not make a required payment (interest payment or return of principal) on its debt. Generally this occurs after its financial profile has deteriorated (credit risk) and it no longer has the means to make its payments The investment committee of the board of directors monitors the investment risk management process primarily through its executive oversight of our investment activities. We take an active approach to managing market and other investment risks, including the accountabilities and controls over these activities. Actively managing these market risks is integral to our operations and could require us to change the character of future investments purchased or sold or require us to shift the existing asset portfolios to manage exposure to market risk within acceptable ranges. Sector risk is the potential for a negative impact on a particular industry due to its sensitivity to factors that make up market risk. Market risk affects general supply/demand factors for an industry and affects companies within that industry to varying degrees. Risks associated with the five asset classes described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 19, can be summarized as follows (H high, A average, L low): Taxable fixed maturities Tax exempt fixed maturities Common equities Preferred equities Short term investments Political A H A A L Regulatory A A A A L Economic A A H A L Revaluation A A H A L Interest rate H H A H L Fraud A L A A L Credit A L A A L Default A L A A L Fixed Maturity Investments For investment grade corporate bonds, the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices leads to falling bond values during periods of increasing interest rates. We address this risk by attempting to construct a generally laddered maturity schedule that allows us to reinvest cash flows at prevailing rates. Although the potential for a worsening financial condition, and ultimately default, does exist with investment grade corporate bonds, we address this risk by performing credit analysis and monitoring as well as maintaining a diverse portfolio of holdings. The primary risk related to high yield corporate bonds is credit risk or the potential for a deteriorating financial structure. A weak financial profile can lead to rating downgrades from the credit rating agencies, which can put further downward pressure on bond prices. Interest rate risk, while significant, is less of a factor with high yield corporate bonds, as valuation is related more directly to underlying operating performance than to general interest rates. This puts more emphasis on the financial results achieved by the issuer rather than on general economic trends or statistics within the marketplace. We address this concern by analyzing issuer and industry specific financial results and by closely monitoring holdings within this asset class. The primary risks related to tax exempt bonds are interest rate risk and political risk associated with the specific economic environment within the political boundaries of the issuing municipal entity. We address these concerns by focusing on municipalities general obligation debt and on essential service bonds. Essential service bonds derive a revenue stream from municipal services that are vital to the people living in 94 the area (water service, sewer service, etc.). Another risk related to tax exempt bonds is regulatory risk or the potential for legislative changes that would negate the benefit of owning tax exempt bonds. We monitor regulatory activity for situations that may negatively affect current holdings and our ongoing strategy for investing in these securities. The final, less significant risk is our exposure to credit risk for a portion of the tax exempt portfolio that has support from corporate entities. Examples are bonds insured by corporate bond insurers or bonds with interest payments made by a corporate entity through a municipal conduit/authority. Our decisions regarding these investments primarily consider the underlying municipal situation. The existence of third party insurance is intended to reduce risk in the event of default. In circumstances in which the municipality is unable to meet its obligations, risk would be increased if the insuring entity were experiencing financial duress. Because of our diverse exposure and selection of higher rated entities with strong financial profiles, we do not believe this is a material concern as we discuss in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 19. Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Because of our strong surplus, long term investment horizon and ability to hold most fixed maturity investments to maturity, we believe the company is well positioned if interest rates were to rise. A higher rate environment would provide the opportunity to invest cash flow in higher yielding securities, while reducing the likelihood of untimely redemptions of currently callable securities. While higher interest rates would be expected to increase the number of fixed maturity holdings trading below 100 percent of book value, we believe lower fixed maturity security values due solely to interest rate changes would not signal a decline in credit quality. Our dynamic financial planning model uses analytical tools to assess market risks. As part of this model, the effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio is continually monitored by our investment department to evaluate the theoretical impact of interest rate movements. The table below summarizes the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates on the fixed maturity portfolio: (In millions) Interest Rate Shift in Basis Points 200 100 0 100 200 At December 31, 2010 $ 9,260 $ 8,814 $ 8,383 $ 7,964 $ 7,568 At December 31, 2009 $ 8,705 $ 8,279 $ 7,855 $ 7,428 $ 7,024 The effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio was 5.0 years at year end 2010, compared with 5.3 years at year end 2009. A 100 basis point movement in interest rates would result in an approximately 5.0 percent change in the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio. Generally speaking, the higher a bond is rated, the more directly correlated movements in its fair value are to changes in the general level of interest rates, exclusive of call features. The fair values of average to lower rated corporate bonds are additionally influenced by the expansion or contraction of credit spreads. In the dynamic financial planning model, the selected interest rate change of 100 to 200 basis points represents our views of a shift in rates that is quite possible over a one year period. The rates modeled should not be considered a prediction of future events as interest rates may be much more volatile in the future. The analysis is not intended to provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in rates on our results or financial condition, nor does it take into account any actions that we might take to reduce exposure to such risks. Equity Investments Common stocks are subject to a variety of risk factors encompassed under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying industries and companies within those industries. As we saw in 2008, a downturn in the economy can have a negative effect on an equity portfolio. Industry and company specific risks also have the potential to substantially affect the value of our portfolio. We implemented new investment guidelines in 2008 to help address these risks by diversifying the portfolio and establishing parameters to help manage exposures. Our equity holdings represented $3.041 billion in fair value and accounted for approximately 60 percent of the unrealized appreciation of the entire portfolio at year end 2010. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 19, for additional details on our holdings. The primary risks related to preferred stocks are similar to those related to investment grade corporate bonds. Rising interest rates adversely affect market values due to the normal inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices. Credit risk exists due to the subordinate position of preferred stocks in the capital structure. We minimize this risk by primarily purchasing investment grade preferred stocks of issuers with a strong history of paying a common stock dividend. 95 Short Term Investments Our short term investments historically consisted primarily of commercial paper, demand notes or bonds purchased within one year of maturity. In 2009, we made short term investments primarily with funds to be used to make upcoming cash payments, such as taxes. Application of Asset Impairment Policy As discussed in Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 44, our fixed maturity and equity investment portfolios are evaluated differently for other than temporary impairments. The companys asset impairment committee monitors a number of significant factors for indications that the value of investments trading below the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of our impairment policy resulted in OTTI charges that reduced our income before income taxes by $36 million in 2010, $131 million in 2009 and $510 million in 2008. Impairments are discussed in Item 7, Investment Results of Operations, Page 75. We expect the number of securities trading below 100 percent of book value to fluctuate as interest rates rise or fall and credit spreads expand or contract due to prevailing economic conditions. Further, book values for some securities have been revised due to impairment charges recognized in prior periods. At year end 2010, 316 of the 2,671 securities we owned were trading below 100 percent of book value compared with 355 of the 2,505 securities we owned at year end 2009 and 944 of the 2,233 securities we owned at year end 2008. The 316 holdings trading below book value at year end 2010 represented 10.6 percent of invested assets and $49 million in unrealized losses. 312 of these holdings were trading between 90 percent and 100 percent of book value. The value of these securities fluctuates primarily because of changes in interest rates. The fair value of these 312 securities was $1.124 billion at year end 2010, and they accounted for $26 million in unrealized losses. 4 of these holdings were trading between 70 percent and 90 percent of book value. The fair value of these holdings was $101 million, and they accounted for $23 million in unrealized losses. These securities, which are being closely monitored, have been affected by a combination of factors including wider credit spreads driven primarily by the distress in the mortgage market, slumping real estate valuations, the effects of a slowing economy and the effects of higher interest rates on longer duration instruments. The majority of these securities are in the financial related sectors. No securities were trading below 70 percent of book value at year end 2010. The following table summarizes the length of time securities in the investment portfolio have been in a continuous unrealized gain or loss position. (In millions) Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses Fair value Unrealized losses At December 31, 2010 Fixed maturities: States, municipalities and political subdivisions $ 325 $ 9 $ 9 $ 1 $ 334 $ 10 Government sponsored enterprises 133 1 133 1 Corporate securities 354 6 39 3 393 9 Subtotal 812 16 48 4 860 20 Equity securities: Common equities 337 28 337 28 Preferred equities 5 23 1 28 1 Subtotal 342 28 23 1 365 29 Total $ 1,154 $ 44 $ 71 $ 5 $ 1,225 $ 49 At December 31, 2009 Fixed maturities: States, municipalities and political subdivisions $ 196 $ 4 $ 29 $ 2 $ 225 $ 6 Government sponsored enterprises 347 7 347 7 Short term investments 1 1 Collateralized mortgage obligations 27 6 27 6 Corporate bonds 397 19 309 17 706 36 Total 941 30 365 25 1,306 55 Equity securities 65 3 415 26 480 29 Total $ 1,006 $ 33 $ 780 $ 51 $ 1,786 $ 84 96 The following table summarizes the investment portfolio: (Dollars in millions) Number of issues Book value Fair value Gross unrealized gain/loss Gross investment income At December 31, 2010 Taxable fixed maturities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 $ 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 207 694 680 (14 ) 14 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,118 4,445 4,853 408 267 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 23 Total 1,325 5,139 5,533 394 304 Tax exempt fixed maturities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 100 186 180 (6 ) 8 Trading at 100% and above of book value 1,153 2,563 2,670 107 111 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 3 Total 1,253 2,749 2,850 101 122 Common equities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 5 365 337 (28 ) 14 Trading at 100% and above of book value 64 1,846 2,603 757 75 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 1 Total 69 2,211 2,940 729 90 Preferred equities: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 4 29 28 (1 ) 2 Trading at 100% and above of book value 20 46 73 27 4 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 0 Total 24 75 101 26 6 Short term investments: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 100% and above of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 0 Total 0 0 0 0 0 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 0 0 0 0 0 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 316 1,274 1,225 (49 ) 38 Trading at 100% and above of book value 2,355 8,900 10,199 1,299 457 Investment income on securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 27 Total 2,671 $ 10,174 $ 11,424 $ 1,250 $ 522 At December 31, 2009 Portfolio summary: Trading below 70% of book value 9 $ 8 $ 5 $ (3 ) $ 1 Trading at 70% to less than 100% of book value 346 1,862 1,781 (81 ) 79 Trading at 100% and above of book value 2,150 7,666 8,776 1,110 391 Investment income on securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 31 Total 2,505 $ 9,536 $ 10,562 $ 1,026 $ 502 97 
 
