Item 7.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Introduction The purpose of Managements Discussion and Analysis is to provide an understanding of Cincinnati Financial Corporations consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Our Managements Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 6, Selected Financial Data, Pages 37, and Item 8, Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes, beginning on Page 114. We present per share data on a diluted basis unless otherwise noted, adjusting those amounts for all stock splits and stock dividends. We begin with an executive summary of our results of operations and outlook, as well as details on critical accounting policies and estimates. Periodically, we refer to estimated industry data so that we can give information on our performance within the context of the overall insurance industry. Unless otherwise noted, the industry data is prepared by A.M. Best Co., a leading insurance industry statistical, analytical and financial strength rating organization. Information from A.M. Best is presented on a statutory accounting basis. When we provide our results on a comparable statutory accounting basis, we label it as such; all other company data is presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). Executive Summary Through The Cincinnati Insurance Company, Cincinnati Financial Corporation is one of the 25 largest property casualty insurers in the nation, based on 2010 written premium volume for approximately 2,000 U.S. stock and mutual insurer groups. We market our insurance products through a select group of independent insurance agencies in 39 states as discussed in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Page 3. Although recent years have been difficult for our economy, our industry and our company, our long term perspective lets us address the immediate challenges while focusing on the major decisions that best position the company for success through all market cycles. We believe that this forward looking view has consistently benefited our shareholders, agents, policyholders and associates. To measure our progress, we have defined a measure of value creation that we believe captures the contribution of our insurance operations, the success of our investment strategy and the importance we place on paying cash dividends to shareholders. We refer to this measure as our value creation ratio, or VCR, and it is made up of two primary components: (1) our rate of growth in book value per share plus (2) the ratio of dividends declared per share to beginning book value per share. For the period 2010 through 2014, an annual value creation ratio averaging 12 percent to 15 percent is our primary performance target. Management believes this non GAAP measure is a useful supplement to GAAP information. With the continuation of economic and market uncertainty since 2008, we believe the long term nature of this ratio is an appropriate way to measure our long term progress in creating shareholder value. VCR trends and a reconciliation of the non GAAP measure to comparable GAAP measures are shown in the tables below. One Three year Five year year % average % average Value creation ratio as of December 31, 2011 6.0% 12.3% 1.5% as of December 31, 2010 11.1 2.4 3.7 as of December 31, 2009 19.7 (3.2) 1.7 Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2009 Value creation ratio End of year book value $31.16 $30.91 $29.25 Less beginning of year book value 30.91 29.25 25.75 Change in book value 0.25 1.66 3.50 Dividend declared to shareholders 1.605 1.59 1.57 Total contribution to value creation ratio $1.86 $3.25 $5.07 Contribution to value creation ratio from change in book value* 0.8% 5.7% 13.6% Contribution to value creation ratio from dividends declared to shareholders** 5.2 5.4 6.1 Value creation ratio 6.0% 11.1% 19.7% In 2011, our value creation ratio of 6.0 percent was well below our target annual average of 12 percent to 15 percent for the period 2010 through 2014. The three year average at year end 2011 was within the target range. In 2010, it was slightly below our target and the ratio exceeded our target in 2009, as discussed in Corporate Financial Highlights below. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 38 When looking at our longer term objectives, we see three performance drivers: &middot;Premium growth &ndash; We believe over any five year period our agency relationships and initiatives can lead to a property casualty written premium growth rate that exceeds the industry average. Our long term target for profitable premium growth, for our property casualty and life insurance segments in aggregate, is to reach $5 billion of annual direct written premiums by the end of 2015. In 2011, our direct written premiums totaled $3.534 billion. The compound annual growth rate of our net written premiums was negative 0.5 percent over the five year period 2007 through 2011, slightly lower than the negative 0.4 percent estimated growth rate for the property casualty insurance industry, excluding the mortgage and financial guaranty segments. &middot;Combined ratio &ndash; We believe our underwriting philosophy and initiatives can drive performance to achieve our underwriting profitability target of a GAAP combined ratio over any five year period that is consistently within the range of 95 percent to 100 percent. Our GAAP combined ratio has averaged 101.3 percent over the five year period 2007 through 2011. Our combined ratio was below 100 percent in 2007, but above 100 percent for 2008 through 2011, when our average catastrophe loss ratio of 7.7 percentage points was 3.8 points higher than the average for the 10 year period prior to 2008. Performance as measured by the combined ratio is discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51. Our statutory combined ratio averaged 101.2 percent over the five year period 2007 through 2011 compared with an estimated 100.8 percent for the property casualty industry, excluding the mortgage and financial guaranty segments. &middot;Investment contribution We believe our investment philosophy and initiatives can drive investment income growth and lead to a total return on our equity investment portfolio over a five year period that exceeds the five year return of the Standard & Poors 500 Index. oInvestment income growth, on a before tax basis, had a compound annual rate of negative 1.6 percent over the five year period 2007 through 2011. It grew in each year except 2008 and 2009, when we experienced a dramatic reduction in dividend payouts by financial services companies held in our equity portfolio, a risk we addressed aggressively during 2008, completing that effort in early 2009. oOver the five years ended December 31, 2011, our compound annual equity portfolio return was a negative 4.7 percent compared with a compound annual total return of 0.3 percent for the Index. Our equity portfolio underperformed the market for the five year period primarily because of the 2008 decline in the market value of our previously large holdings in the financial services sector. For the year 2011, our compound annual equity portfolio return was 6.1 percent, compared with 2.1 percent for the Index, as the large cap, dividend paying stocks that we prefer outpaced the broader equity market. The board of directors is committed to rewarding shareholders directly through cash dividends and through authorizing share repurchases. The board also has periodically declared stock dividends and splits. Through 2011, the company has increased the indicated annual cash dividend rate for 51 consecutive years, a record we believe is matched by only nine other publicly traded companies. The board regularly evaluates relevant factors in dividend related decisions, and the increase reflects confidence in our strong capital, liquidity and financial flexibility, as well as progress through our initiatives to improve earnings performance. We discuss our financial position in more detail in Liquidity and Capital Resources, Page 85. Strategic Initiatives Highlights Management has worked to identify a strategy that can lead to long term success, with concurrence by the board of directors. Our strategy is intended to position us to compete successfully in the markets we have targeted while appropriately managing risk. We discuss our long term, proven strategy in Item 1, Our Business and Our Strategy, Page 3. We believe successful implementation of initiatives that support our strategy will help us better serve our agent customers and reduce volatility in our financial results while we also grow earnings and book value over the long term, successfully navigating challenging economic, market or industry pricing cycles. &middot;Improve insurance profitability &ndash; Implementation of these initiatives is intended to improve pricing capabilities for our property casualty business and increase our ability to manage our business while also enhancing our efficiency. Improved pricing capabilities through the use of technology and analytics can lead to better profit margins. Improved internal processes with additional performance metrics can help us be more efficient and effective. These initiatives also support the ability of the agencies that represent us to grow profitably by allowing them to serve clients faster and to more efficiently manage agency expenses. &middot;Drive premium growth &ndash; Implementation of these initiatives is intended to further penetrate each market we serve through our independent agency network. Strategies aimed at specific market opportunities, along with service enhancements, can help our agents grow and increase our share of their business. Diversified growth also may reduce variability of losses from weather related catastrophes. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 39 We discuss these strategic initiatives, along with related metrics to assess progress, in Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 10. Below is a review of highlights of our financial results for the past three years. Detailed discussion of these topics appears in Results of Operations, Page 50, and Liquidity and Capital Resources, Page 85. Corporate Financial Highlights The value creation ratio discussed in the Executive Summary, Page 38, was 6.0 percent in 2011, 11.1 percent in 2010 and 19.7 percent in 2009. The book value per share growth component of the value creation ratio was 0.8 percent during 2011 and 5.7 percent during 2010. The 2011 ratio was depressed primarily due to unusually high catastrophe losses that lowered the ratio by 3.3 percentage points compared with 2010, and also drove a 56 percent decline in net income. Higher valuations for our investment portfolio benefited the value creation ratio in addition to earnings. Realized capital gains plus the net change in unrealized capital gains contributed 3.8, 5.2 and 14.5 percentage points for the years 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Net income declined 13 percent in 2010 after growing 1 percent in 2009, reflecting lower realized investment gains. Cash dividends declared per share rose approximately 1 percent during each of the years during 2009 through 2011. Balance Sheet Data At December 31, At December 31, (Dollars in millions except share data) 2011 2010 Balance sheet data Invested assets $11,801 $11,508 Total assets 15,668 15,095 Short term debt 104 49 Long term debt 790 790 Shareholders equity 5,055 5,032 Book value per share 31.16 30.91 Debt to total capital ratio 15.0% 14.3% Invested assets grew 3 percent during 2011 on a fair value basis, with market gains slightly outpacing an increase in the cost basis of invested assets of approximately 1 percent. Entering 2012, the portfolio continues to be well diversified, and we believe it is well positioned to withstand short term fluctuations. We discuss our investment strategy in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 20, and results for the segment in Investment Results of Operations, Page 81. Short term debt rose $55 million, primarily to fund share repurchases using our relatively low cost source of borrowing. Our ratio of debt to total capital (debt plus shareholders equity) increased somewhat in 2011 but remains comfortably within our target range. Income Statement and Per Share Data Twelve months ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions except share data) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Income statement data Earned premiums $3,194 $3,082 $3,054 4 1 Investment income, net of expenses (pretax) 525 518 501 1 3 Realized investment gains and losses (pretax) 70 159 336 (56) (53) Total revenues 3,803 3,772 3,903 1 (3) Net income 166 377 432 (56) (13) Per share data Net income diluted $1.02 $2.31 $2.65 (56) (13) Cash dividends declared 1.605 1.59 1.57 1 1 Weighted average shares outstanding 163,259,222 163,274,491 162,866,863 0 0 Net income in 2011 declined $211 million or 56 percent compared with 2010, due primarily to the after tax effects of property casualty underwriting results that were $149 million lower, including $165 million from higher natural catastrophe losses, and net realized investment gains that were $58 million lower. Net income decreased $55 million in 2010, reflecting the after tax net effect of three major contributing items: a $114 million decline in net realized investment gains, partially offset by a $53 million improvement from property casualty underwriting results plus $9 million of growth in investment income. As discussed in Investment Results of Operations, Page 81, security sales led to realized investment gains in all three years. Realized and unrealized investment gains and losses are integral to our financial results over the long term. We have substantial discretion in the timing of investment sales and, therefore, the gains or losses that are recognized in any period. That discretion generally is independent of the insurance underwriting process. Also, applicable accounting standards require us to recognize gains and losses from certain changes in fair values of securities and for securities with embedded derivatives without actual realization of those gains and losses. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 40 Higher dividend income was largely responsible for 1 percent growth in 2011 pretax investment income, while higher interest income drove 3 percent growth in 2010. The primary reason for the 2011 increase in dividend income was a higher average dividend payment rates for common stocks in our equity portfolio. Contribution from Insurance Operations (Dollars in millions) Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 Consolidated property casualty highlights 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Net written premiums $3,098 $2,963 $2,911 5 2 Earned premiums 3,029 2,924 2,911 4 0 Underwriting loss (276) (47) (128) nm nm Pt. Change Pt. Change GAAP combined ratio 109.2% 101.7% 104.5% 7.5 (2.8) Statutory combined ratio 108.9 101.8 104.4 7.1 (2.6) Written premium to statutory surplus 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.0 0.0 Property casualty net written premiums grew 5 percent in 2011 and earned premiums grew 4 percent, largely due to higher pricing and improving insured exposure level comparatives from the slowly improving economy. Trends and related factors discussed in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations, beginning on Page 57, Page 69 and Page 75, respectively. Our property casualty insurance operations reported an underwriting loss in each of the last three years. The $229 million change for 2011, compared with 2010, was driven by a $254 million rise in losses from natural catastrophe events. We measure property casualty underwriting profitability primarily by the combined ratio. Our combined ratio measures the percentage of each earned premium dollar spent on claims plus all expenses related to our property casualty operations. A lower ratio indicates more favorable results and better underlying performance. Our combined ratio was over 100 percent in each of the last three years. Higher losses from natural catastrophes drove the 2011 ratio increase. Initiatives to improve our combined ratio are discussed in Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 10. In 2011, 2010 and 2009, favorable development on reserves for claims that occurred in prior accident years helped offset other incurred loss and loss expenses. Reserve development is discussed further in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, beginning on Page 88. Losses from weather related catastrophes are another important item influencing the combined ratio and are discussed along with other factors in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations, beginning on Page 57, Page 69 and Page 75, respectively. Our life insurance segment reported a small loss because most of its investment income is included in our investments segment results. We discuss results for the segment in Life Insurance Results of Operations, Page 79. In addition to investment income, realized investment gains from the life insurance investment portfolio are also included in our investments segment results. Factors Influencing Our Future Performance Our view of the value we can create over the next five years relies largely on two assumptions about the external environment. First, we anticipate continued firming of commercial insurance pricing throughout 2012. Second, we assume that the economy can maintain a growth track during 2012. If those assumptions prove to be inaccurate, we may not be able to achieve our performance targets even if we accomplish our strategic objectives. Other factors that could influence our ability to achieve our target include: &middot;We expect the insurance marketplace to remain competitive, which is likely to cause carriers to pursue strategies that they believe could lead to economies of scale, market share gains or the potential for an improved competitive posture. &middot;We expect the independent insurance agency system to remain strong, with continued agency consolidation. If soft insurance market conditions return in 2012, it will create additional risk for agencies. &middot;We expect initiatives that make it easier for agents to do business with us will continue to be a significant factor in agency relationships, with technology being a major driver. Policyholders will increasingly demand online services and access from agents or carriers. We discuss in our Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 26, many potential risks to our business and our ability to achieve our qualitative and quantitative objectives. These are real risks, but their probability of occurring may not be high. We also believe that our risk management programs generally could mitigate their potential effects, in the event they would occur. We continue to study emerging risks, including climate change risk and its potential financial effects on our results of operation and those we insure. These effects include deterioration in credit quality of our municipal or corporate bond portfolios and increased losses without sufficient corresponding increases in premiums. As with any risk, we seek to identify the extent of the risk exposure and possible actions to mitigate potential negative effects of risk, at an enterprise level. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 41 We have formal risk management programs overseen by an executive officer and supported by a team of representatives from business areas. The team provides reports to our chairman, our president and chief executive officer and our board of directors, as appropriate, on risk assessments, risk metrics and risk plans. Our use of operational audits, strategic plans and departmental business plans, as well as our culture of open communications and our fundamental respect for our Code of Conduct, continue to help us manage risks on an ongoing basis. For the year 2012, we believe our value creation ratio may be below our long term target for several reasons. &middot;The rally in financial markets during 2009 and 2010 had a favorable impact on our value creation ratio, offsetting much of the unfavorable impact of the sharp decline in financial markets during 2008. Financial markets continued to display volatility during 2011, and some predict more turbulence in 2012 from effects of events such as the sovereign debt crisis in several European countries. Should financial markets decline during 2012, which could occur as part of typical market volatility patterns, the related component of our 2012 value creation ratio could also register a weak or negative result. &middot;Lingering effects of soft insurance market pricing in recent years could significantly affect growth rates and earned premium levels into 2012 and for some time into the future, depending on insurance market conditions. After several years of market conditions that weakened loss ratios and hampered near term profitability, conditions affecting property casualty markets largely began to improve in the second half of 2011. In the future, economic factors, including inflation, may increase our claims and settlement expenses related to medical care, litigation and construction. &middot;The slowly recovering economy helped increase the value of business and personal insurable assets owned by policyholders in 2011. If the economy falters, we may experience low or no premium growth for the property casualty industry. Property casualty written premium growth also may lag as some of our growth initiatives require more time to reach their full contribution. &middot;We will incur the cost of continued investment in our business, including technology, recent entry in new states and process initiatives to create long term value. In addition, we will not see the full advantage of some of these investments for several years. Critical Accounting Estimates Cincinnati Financial Corporations financial statements are prepared using GAAP. These principles require management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. The significant accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements are discussed in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 114 In conjunction with that discussion, material implications of uncertainties associated with the methods, assumptions and estimates underlying the companys critical accounting policies are discussed below. The audit committee of the board of directors reviews the annual financial statements with management and the independent registered public accounting firm. These discussions cover the quality of earnings, review of reserves and accruals, reconsideration of the suitability of accounting principles, review of highly judgmental areas including critical accounting policies, audit adjustments and such other inquiries as may be appropriate. Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves We establish loss and loss expense reserves for our property casualty insurance business as balance sheet liabilities. These reserves account for unpaid loss and loss expenses as of a financial statement date. Unpaid loss and loss expenses are the estimated amounts necessary to pay for and settle all outstanding insured claims, including incurred but not reported (IBNR) claims, as of that date. For some lines of business that we write, a considerable and uncertain amount of time can elapse between the occurrence, reporting and payment of insured claims. The amount we will actually have to pay for such claims also can be highly uncertain. This uncertainty, together with the size of our reserves, makes the loss and loss expense reserves our most significant estimate. Gross loss and loss expense reserves were $4.280 billion at year end 2011 compared with $4.137 billion at year end 2010. How Reserves Are Established Our field claims representatives establish case reserves when claims are reported to the company to provide for our unpaid loss and loss expense obligation associated with individual claims. Field claims managers supervise and review all claims with case reserves less than $35,000. Experienced headquarters claims supervisors review individual case reserves greater than $35,000 that were established by field claims representatives. Headquarters claims managers also review case reserves greater than $100,000. Our claims representatives base their case reserve estimates primarily upon case by case evaluations that consider: &middot;type of claim involved Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 42 &middot;circumstances surrounding each claim &middot;policy provisions pertaining to each claim &middot;potential for subrogation or salvage recoverable &middot;general insurance reserving practices Case reserves of all sizes are subject to review on a 90 day cycle, or more frequently if new information about a loss becomes available. As part of the review process, we monitor industry trends, cost trends, relevant court cases, legislative activity and other current events in an effort to ascertain new or additional loss exposures. We also establish IBNR reserves to provide for all unpaid loss and loss expenses not accounted for by case reserves: &middot;For weather events designated as catastrophes, we calculate IBNR reserves directly as a result of an estimated IBNR claim count and an estimated average claim amount for each event. Once case reserves are established for a weather event, we reduce the IBNR reserves. Our claims department management coordinates the assessment of these events and prepares the related IBNR reserve estimates. Such an assessment involves a comprehensive analysis of the nature of the event, of policyholder exposures within the affected geographic area and of available claims intelligence. Depending on the nature of the event, available claims intelligence could include surveys of field claims associates within the affected geographic area, feedback from a catastrophe claims team sent into the area, as well as data on claims reported as of the financial statement date. To determine whether an event is designated as a catastrophe, we generally use the catastrophe definition provided by Property Claims Service (PCS), a division of Insurance Services Office (ISO). PCS defines a catastrophe as an event that causes countrywide damage of $25 million or more in insured property losses and affects a significant number of policyholders and insureds. &middot;For asbestos and environmental claims, we calculate IBNR reserves by deriving an actuarially based estimate of total unpaid loss and loss expenses. We then reduce the estimate by total case reserves. We discuss the reserve analysis that applies to asbestos and environmental reserves in Asbestos and Environmental Reserves, Page 89. &middot;For loss expenses that pertain primarily to salaries and other costs related to our claims department associates, also referred to as adjusting and other expense or AOE for statutory accounting purposes, we calculate reserves based on an analysis of the relationship between paid losses and paid AOE. &middot;For all other claims and events, IBNR reserves are calculated as the difference between an actuarial estimate of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred reduced by the sum of total loss and loss expense payments and total case reserves estimated for individual claims. We discuss below the development of actuarially based estimates of the ultimate cost of total loss and loss expenses incurred. Our actuarial staff applies significant judgment in selecting models and estimating model parameters when preparing reserve analyses. In addition, unpaid loss and loss expenses are inherently uncertain as to timing and amount. Uncertainties relating to model appropriateness, parameter estimates and actual loss and loss expense amounts are referred to as model, parameter and process uncertainty, respectively. Our management and actuarial staff address these uncertainties in the reserving process in a variety of ways. Our actuarial staff bases its IBNR reserve estimates for these losses primarily on the indications of methods and models that analyze accident year data. Accident year is the year in which an insured claim, loss, or loss expense occurred. The specific methods and models that our actuaries have used for the past several years are: &middot;paid and reported loss development methods &middot;paid and reported loss Bornhuetter Ferguson methods &middot;individual and multiple probabilistic trend family models Our actuarial staff uses diagnostics provided by stochastic reserving software to evaluate the appropriateness of the models and methods listed above. The softwares diagnostics have indicated that the appropriateness of these models and methods for estimating IBNR reserves for our lines of business tends to depend on a lines tail. Tail refers to the time interval between a typical claims occurrence and its settlement. For our long tail lines such as workers compensation and commercial casualty, models from the probabilistic trend family tend to provide superior fits and to validate well compared with models underlying the loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods. The loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods, particularly the reported loss variations, tend to produce the more appropriate IBNR reserve estimates for our short tail lines such as homeowner and commercial property. For our mid tail lines such as personal and commercial auto liability, all models and methods provide useful insights. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 43 Our actuarial staff also devotes significant time and effort to the estimation of model and method parameters. The loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods require the estimation of numerous loss development factors. The Bornhuetter Ferguson methods also involve the estimation of numerous ultimate loss ratios by accident year. Models from the probabilistic trend family require the estimation of development trends, calendar year inflation trends and exposure levels. Consequently, our actuarial staff monitors a number of trends and measures to gain key business insights necessary for exercising appropriate judgment when estimating the parameters mentioned. These trends and measures include: &middot;company and industry pricing &middot;company and industry exposure &middot;company and industry loss frequency and severity &middot;past large loss events such as hurricanes &middot;company and industry premium &middot;company in force policy count These trends and measures also support the estimation of ultimate accident year loss ratios needed for applying the Bornhuetter Ferguson methods and for assessing the reasonability of all IBNR reserve estimates computed. Our actuarial staff reviews these trends and measures quarterly, updating parameters derived from them as necessary. Quarterly, our actuarial staff summarizes its reserve analysis by preparing an actuarial best estimate and a range of reasonable IBNR reserves intended to reflect the uncertainty of the estimate. An inter departmental committee that includes our actuarial management team reviews the results of each quarterly reserve analysis. The committee establishes managements best estimate of IBNR reserves, which is the amount that is included in each periods financial statements. In addition to the information provided by actuarial staff, the committee also considers factors such as the following: &middot;large loss activity and trends in large losses &middot;new business activity &middot;judicial decisions &middot;general economic trends such as inflation &middot;trends in litigiousness and legal expenses &middot;product and underwriting changes &middot;changes in claims practices The determination of managements best estimate, like the preparation of the reserve analysis that supports it, involves considerable judgment. Changes in reserving data or the trends and factors that influence reserving data may signal fundamental shifts or may simply reflect single period anomalies. Even if a change reflects a fundamental shift, the full extent of the change may not become evident until years later. Moreover, since our methods and models do not explicitly relate many of the factors we consider directly to reserve levels, we typically cannot quantify the precise impact of such factors on the adequacy of reserves prospectively or retrospectively. Due to the uncertainties described above, our ultimate loss experience could prove better or worse than our carried reserves reflect. To the extent that reserves are inadequate and increased, the amount of the increase is a charge in the period that the deficiency is recognized, raising our loss and loss expense ratio and reducing earnings. To the extent that reserves are redundant and released, the amount of the release is a credit in the period that the redundancy is recognized, reducing our loss and loss expense ratio and increasing earnings. Key Assumptions Loss Reserving Our actuarial staff makes a number of key assumptions when using their methods and models to derive IBNR reserve estimates. Appropriate reliance on these key assumptions essentially entails determinations of the likelihood that statistically significant patterns in historical data may extend into the future. The four most significant of the key assumptions used by our actuarial staff and approved by management are: &middot;Emergence of loss and defense and cost containment expenses on an accident year basis. Historical paid loss, reported loss and paid defense and cost containment expense data for the business lines we analyze contain patterns that reflect how unpaid losses, unreported losses and unpaid defense and cost containment expenses as of a financial statement date will emerge in the future on an accident year basis. Unless our actuarial staff or management identifies reasons or factors that invalidate the extension of historical patterns into the future, these patterns can be used to make projections necessary for estimating IBNR reserves. Our actuaries significantly rely on this assumption in the application of all methods and models mentioned above. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 44 &middot;Calendar year inflation. For long tail and mid tail business lines, calendar year inflation trends for future paid losses and paid defense and cost containment expenses will not vary significantly from a stable, long term average. Our actuaries base reserve estimates derived from probabilistic trend family models on this assumption. &middot;Exposure levels. Historical earned premiums, when adjusted to reflect common levels of product pricing and loss cost inflation, can serve as a proxy for historical exposures. Our actuaries require this assumption to estimate expected loss ratios and expected defense and cost containment expense ratios used by the Bornhuetter Ferguson reserving methods. They may also use this assumption to establish exposure levels for recent accident years, characterized by green or immature data, when working with probabilistic trend family models. &middot;Claims having atypical emergence patterns. Characteristics of certain subsets of claims, such as high frequency, high severity, or mass tort claims, have the potential to distort patterns contained in historical paid loss, reported loss and paid defense and cost containment expense data. When testing indicates this to be the case for a particular subset of claims, our actuaries segregate these claims from the data and analyze them separately. Subsets of claims that could fall into this category include hurricane claims or claims for other weather events where total losses we incurred were very large, individual large claims and asbestos and environmental claims. These key assumptions have not changed since 2005, when our actuarial staff began using probabilistic trend family models to estimate IBNR reserves. Paid losses, reported losses and paid defense and cost containment expenses are subject to random as well as systematic influences. As a result, actual paid losses, reported losses and paid defense and cost containment expenses are virtually certain to differ from projections. Such differences are consistent with what specific models for our business lines predict and with the related patterns in the historical data used to develop these models. As a result, management does not closely monitor statistically insignificant differences between actual and projected data. Reserve Estimate Variability Management believes that the standard error of a reserve estimate, a measure of the estimates variability, provides the most appropriate measure of the estimates sensitivity. The reserves we establish depend on the models we use and the related parameters we estimate in the course of conducting reserve analyses. However, the actual amount required to settle all outstanding insured claims, including IBNR claims, as of a financial statement date depends on stochastic, or random, elements as well as the systematic elements captured by our models and estimated model parameters. For the lines of business we write, process uncertainty &ndash; the inherent variability of loss and loss expense payments &ndash; typically contributes more to the imprecision of a reserve estimate than parameter uncertainty. Consequently, a sensitivity measure that ignores process uncertainty would provide an incomplete picture of the reserve estimates sensitivity. Since a reserve estimates standard error accounts for both process and parameter uncertainty, it reflects the estimates full sensitivity to a range of reasonably likely scenarios. The table below provides standard errors and reserve ranges by major property casualty lines of business and in total for loss and loss expense reserves as well as the potential effects on our net income, assuming a 35 percent federal tax rate. Standard errors and reserve ranges for assorted groupings of these lines of business cannot be computed by simply adding the standard errors and reserve ranges of the component lines of business, since such an approach would ignore the effects of product diversification. See Range of Reasonable Reserves, Page 90, for more details on our total reserve range. While the table reflects our assessment of the most likely range within which each lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses may fall, one or more lines actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 45 Net loss and loss expense range of reserves Carried Low High Standard Net income (In millions) reserves point point error effect At December 31, 2011 Total $3,905 $3,677 $4,056 Commercial casualty $1,613 $1,432 $1,750 $159 $103 Commercial property 209 175 229 27 18 Commercial auto 349 333 365 16 10 Workers compensation 966 875 1,056 90 59 Personal auto 176 168 184 8 5 Homeowners 121 107 129 11 7 At December 31, 2010 Total $3,811 $3,571 $3,952 Commercial casualty $1,644 $1,455 $1,781 $163 $106 Commercial property 155 136 176 20 13 Commercial auto 356 336 376 20 13 Workers compensation 1,010 906 1,079 87 57 Personal auto 153 145 161 8 5 Homeowners 105 95 114 9 6 If actual unpaid loss and loss expenses fall within these ranges, our cash flow and fixed maturity investments should provide sufficient liquidity to make the subsequent payments. To date, our cash flow has covered our loss and loss expense payments, and we have never had to sell investments to make these payments. If this were to become necessary, however, our fixed maturity investments should provide us with ample liquidity. At year end 2011, consolidated fixed maturity investments exceeded total insurance reserves (including life policy reserves) by $2.226 billion. Life Insurance Policy Reserves We establish the reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions. We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments. Asset Impairment Our fixed maturity and equity investment portfolios are our largest assets. The companys asset impairment committee continually monitors the holdings in these portfolios and all other assets for signs of other than temporary or permanent impairment. The committee monitors decreases in the fair value of invested assets; an accumulation of costs in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset; uncollectability of all receivable assets, or other factors such as bankruptcy, deterioration of creditworthiness, failure to pay interest or dividends; signs indicating that the carrying amount may not be recoverable; and changes in legal factors or in the business climate. The application of our impairment policy resulted in other than temporary impairment (OTTI) charges that reduced our income before income taxes by $57 million in 2011, $36 million in 2010 and $131 million in 2009. Impairment charges are recorded for other than temporary declines in value, if, in the asset impairment committees judgment, the value is not expected to be recouped within a designated recovery period. OTTI losses represent non cash charges to income and are reported as realized investment losses. Our internal investment portfolio managers monitor their assigned portfolios. If a security is valued below cost or amortized cost, the portfolio managers undertake additional reviews. Such declines often occur in conjunction with events taking place in the overall economy and market, combined with events specific to the industry or operations of the issuing organization. Managers review quantitative measurements such as a declining trend in fair value, the extent of the fair value decline and the length of time the value of the security has been depressed, as well as qualitative measures such as pending events, credit ratings and issuer liquidity. We are even more proactive when these declines in valuation are greater than might be anticipated when viewed in the context of overall economic and market conditions. We provide information about valuation of our invested assets in Item 8, Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 120. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 46 All securities valued below 100 percent of cost or amortized cost are reported to the asset impairment committee for evaluation. Securities valued between 95 percent and 100 percent of cost or amortized cost are reviewed but not monitored separately by the committee. When evaluating for OTTI, the committee considers the companys intent and ability to retain a security for a period adequate to recover its cost. Because of the companys financial strength and other factors discussed below, management may not impair certain securities even when they are fair valued below cost or amortized cost. Securities that have previously been other than temporarily impaired are evaluated based on their adjusted cost or amortized cost and further written down, if deemed appropriate. We provide detailed information about securities fair valued in a continuous loss position at year end 2011 in Item 7A, Application of Asset Impairment Policy, Page 104. An other than temporary decline in the fair value of a security is recognized in net income as a realized investment loss. When determining OTTI charges for our fixed maturity portfolio, management places significant emphasis on whether issuers of debt are current on contractual payments and whether future contractual amounts are likely to be paid. Our fixed maturity invested asset impairment policy states that OTTI is considered to have occurred (1) if we intend to sell the impaired fixed maturity security; (2) if it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the fixed maturity security before recovery of its amortized cost basis; or (3) the present value of the expected cash flows is not sufficient to recover the entire amortized cost basis. If we intend to sell or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell, the amortized cost of any such securities is reduced to fair value as the new amortized cost basis, and a realized loss is recorded in the quarter in which it is recognized. When we believe that full collection of interest and or principal is not likely, we determine the net present value of future cash flows by using the effective interest rate implicit in the security at the date of acquisition as the discount rate and compare that amount to the amortized cost and fair value of the security. The difference between the net present value of the expected future cash flows and amortized cost of the security is considered a credit loss and recognized as a realized loss in the quarter in which it occurred. The difference between the fair value and the net present value of the cash flows of the security, the non credit loss, is recognized in other comprehensive income as an unrealized loss. When determining OTTI charges for our equity portfolio, our invested asset impairment policy considers qualitative and quantitative factors, including facts and circumstances specific to individual securities, asset classes, the financial condition of the issuer, changes in dividend payment, the length of time fair value had been less than cost, the severity of the decline in fair value below cost, the volatility of the security and our ability and intent to hold each position until its forecasted recovery. For each of our equity securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2011, we applied the objective quantitative and qualitative criteria of our invested asset impairment policy for OTTI. Our long term equity investment philosophy, emphasizing companies with strong indications of paying and growing dividends, combined with our strong surplus, liquidity and cash flow, provide us the ability to hold these investments through what we believe to be slightly longer recovery periods occasioned by the recession and historic levels of market volatility. Based on the individual qualitative and quantitative factors, as discussed above, we evaluate and determine an expected recovery period for each security. A change in the condition of a security can warrant impairment before the expected recovery period. If the security has not recovered cost within the expected recovery period, the security is other than temporarily impaired. Securities considered to have a temporary decline would be expected to recover their cost or amortized cost, which may be at maturity. Under the same accounting treatment as fair value gains, temporary declines (changes in the fair value of these securities) are reflected in shareholders equity on our balance sheet in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI), net of tax, and have no impact on net income. Fair Value Measurements Valuation of Financial Instruments Valuation of financial instruments, primarily securities held in our investment portfolio, is a critical component of our year end financial statement preparation. Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820 10, defines fair value as the exit price or the amount that would be (1) received to sell an asset or (2) paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between marketplace participants at the measurement date. When determining an exit price, we must, whenever possible, rely upon observable market data. In accordance with ASC 820 10, we have categorized our financial instruments, based on the priority of the inputs to the valuation technique, into a three level fair value hierarchy. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). If the inputs used to measure the financial instruments fall within different levels of the hierarchy, the categorization is based on the lowest level that is significant to the fair value measurement of the instrument. While we consider pricing data from outside services, we ultimately determine whether the data or inputs used by these outside services are observable or unobservable. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 47 Financial assets and liabilities recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets are categorized based on the inputs to the valuation techniques as described in Item 8, Note 3, Fair Value Measurements, Page 123. Level 1 and Level 2 Valuation Techniques Over 99 percent of the $11.735 billion of securities in our investment portfolio, measured at fair value, are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Financial assets that fall within Level 1 and Level 2 are priced according to observable data from identical or similar securities that have traded in the marketplace. Also within Level 2 are securities that are valued by outside services or brokers where we have evaluated the pricing methodology and determined that the inputs are observable. Level 3 Valuation Techniques Financial assets that fall within the Level 3 hierarchy are valued based upon unobservable market inputs, normally because they are not actively traded on a public market. Pricing for each Level 3 security is based upon inputs that are market driven, including third party reviews provided to the issuer or broker quotes. We placed in the Level 3 hierarchy securities for which we were unable to obtain the pricing methodology or we could not consider the price provided as binding. Pricing for securities classified as Level 3 could not be corroborated by similar securities priced using observable inputs. Management ultimately determined the pricing for each Level 3 security that we considered to be the best exit price valuation. As of December 31, 2011, total Level 3 assets were less than 1 percent of our investment portfolio measured at fair value. Broker quotes are obtained for thinly traded securities that subsequently fall within the Level 3 hierarchy. We have generally obtained two non binding quotes from brokers and, after evaluating, our investment professionals typically selected the lower quote as the fair value. Employee Benefit Pension Plan We have a defined benefit pension plan that was modified during 2008; refer to Item 8, Note 13 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 130, for additional information. Contributions and pension costs are developed from annual actuarial valuations. These valuations involve key assumptions including discount rates, expected return on plan assets and compensation increase rates, which are updated annually. Any adjustments to these assumptions are based on considerations of current market conditions. Therefore, changes in the related pension costs or credits may occur in the future due to changes in assumptions. Key assumptions used in developing the 2011 benefit obligation for our qualified plan were a 5.10 percent discount rate and rates of compensation increases ranging from 3.50 percent to 5.50 percent. To determine the discount rate, a hypothetical diversified portfolio of actual domestic Aa rated bonds was chosen to provide payments approximately matching the plans expected benefit payments. A single interest rate was determined based on the anticipated yield of the constructed portfolio. Key assumptions used in developing the 2011 net pension expense for our qualified plan were a 5.85 percent discount rate, a 7.50 percent expected return on plan assets and rates of compensation increases ranging from 3.50 percent to 5.50 percent. See Note 13, Page 130 for additional information on assumptions. In 2011, the net pension expense was $13 million. In 2012, we expect the net pension expense to be $18 million. Holding all other assumptions constant, a 0.5 percentage point decrease in the discount rate would decrease our 2012 income before income taxes by $1 million. A 0.5 percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would decrease our 2012 income before income taxes by $1 million. The fair value of the plan assets was $20 million less than the accumulated benefit obligation at year end 2011 and $30 million less at year end 2010. The fair value of the plan assets was $65 million less than the projected plan benefit obligation at year end 2011 and $62 million less at year end 2010. Market conditions and interest rates significantly affect future assets and liabilities of the pension plan. On February 1, 2011, we contributed $35 million to our qualified plan. We expect to contribute $14 million to our qualified plan during 2012. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 48 Deferred Acquisition Costs We establish a deferred asset for costs that vary with, and are primarily related to, issuing property casualty and life insurance policies. Underlying assumptions are updated periodically to reflect actual experience, and we evaluate our deferred acquisition cost recoverability. For property casualty policies, deferred acquisition costs are amortized over the terms of the policies. These costs are principally agent commissions, premium taxes and certain underwriting costs, which are deferred and amortized into net income as premiums are earned. We assess recoverability of deferred acquisition costs at the segment level, consistent with the ways we acquire, service, manage and measure profitability. Deferred acquisition costs track with the change in premiums. Our property casualty insurance operations consist of three segments, commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus lines. For life insurance policies, acquisition costs are amortized into income either over the premium paying period of the policies or the life of the policy, depending on the policy type. These costs are principally agent commissions and certain underwriting costs. We analyze our acquisition cost assumptions periodically to reflect actual experience; we evaluate our deferred acquisition cost for recoverability; and we regularly conduct reviews for potential premium deficiencies or loss recognition. Changes in the amounts or timing of estimated future profits could result in adjustments to the accumulated amortization of these costs. Profit Sharing Commission Accrual We establish an accrual for property casualty profit sharing commissions. We base the profit sharing commission accrual estimate on property casualty underwriting results. Profit sharing commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account agency profitability over one year and three year periods, premium volume and other factors, including allocations of various expenses. Due to the complexity of the calculation and the variety of allocation factors that can affect profit sharing commissions for an individual agency, the amount accrued can differ from the actual profit sharing commissions paid. The profit sharing commission accrual of $68 million in 2011 contributed 2.3 percentage points to the property casualty combined ratio. If profit sharing commissions paid were to vary from that amount by 5 percent, it would affect 2012 net income by $2 million (after tax), or 1 cent per share, and the combined ratio by approximately 0.1 percentage points. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Information about recent accounting pronouncements is provided in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 114. We have determined that recent accounting pronouncements have not had nor are they expected to have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 49 Results of Operations Consolidated financial results primarily reflect the results of our five reporting segments. These segments are defined based on financial information we use to evaluate performance and to determine the allocation of assets. &middot;Commercial lines property casualty insurance &middot;Personal lines property casualty insurance &middot;Excess and surplus lines property casualty insurance &middot;Life insurance &middot;Investments We report as Other the non investment operations of the parent company and its non insurer subsidiary, CFC Investment Company. We measure profit or loss for our commercial lines, personal lines and excess and surplus property casualty and life insurance segments based upon underwriting results (profit or loss), which represent net earned premium less loss and loss expenses and underwriting expenses on a pretax basis. We also frequently evaluate results for our consolidated property casualty insurance operations, which is the total of our commercial, personal, and excess and surplus insurance results. Underwriting results and segment pretax operating income are not substitutes for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. For our consolidated property casualty insurance operations as well as the insurance segments, statutory accounting data and ratios are key performance indicators that we use to assess business trends and to make comparisons to industry results, since GAAP based industry data generally is not as readily available. Investments held by the parent company and the investment portfolios for the insurance subsidiaries are managed and reported as the investments segment, separate from the underwriting businesses. Net investment income and net realized investment gains and losses for our investment portfolios are discussed in the Investment Results of Operations. The calculations of segment data are described in more detail in Item 8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 136. The following sections review results of operations for each of the five segments. Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 57, Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 69, Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 75, Life Insurance Results of Operations begins on Page 79, and Investment Results of Operations begins on Page 81. We begin with an overview of our consolidated property casualty operations. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 50 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations Earned and net written premiums for our consolidated property casualty operations grew in 2011, reflecting improving pricing, strategic initiatives for targeted growth and the effects of slowly improving economic conditions. A key measure of property casualty profitability is underwriting profit or loss. Our underwriting loss rose by $229 million, driven by a $254 million increase in natural catastrophe losses, mostly from severe weather. Underwriting results before catastrophe losses improved, evidence of benefits from various recent year profit improvement and premium growth initiatives. The table below highlights property casualty results of operations, with analysis and discussion in the sections that follow. Analysis and discussion by property casualty segment can be found in Commercial Lines, Personal Lines and Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations, beginning on Page 57, Page 69 and Page 75, respectively. Overview &ndash; Three Year Highlights Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Earned premiums $3,029 $2,924 $2,911 4 0 Fee revenues 4 4 3 0 33 Total revenues 3,033 2,928 2,914 4 0 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 2,213 2,154 2,102 3 2 Current accident year catastrophe losses 407 165 172 147 (4) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (280) (287) (181) 2 (59) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (5) (17) (7) 71 (143) Total loss and loss expenses 2,335 2,015 2,086 16 (3) Underwriting expenses 974 960 956 1 0 Underwriting loss $(276) $(47) $(128) nm 63 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 73.0% 73.6% 72.2% (0.6) 1.4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 13.4 5.6 5.9 7.8 (0.3) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (9.3) (9.8) (6.2) 0.5 (3.6) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.1) (0.5) (0.2) 0.4 (0.3) Total loss and loss expenses 77.0 68.9 71.7 8.1 (2.8) Underwriting expenses 32.2 32.8 32.8 (0.6) 0.0 Combined ratio 109.2% 101.7% 104.5% 7.5 (2.8) Combined ratio: 109.2% 101.7% 104.5% 7.5 (2.8) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 4.0 (4.7) (0.5) 8.7 (4.2) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 105.2% 106.4% 105.0% (1.2) 1.4 Performance highlights for consolidated property casualty operations include: &middot; Premiums &ndash; Solid growth in 2011 renewal and new business written premiums drove the increase in earned premiums and net written premiums, offsetting additional ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty. The rate of growth for earned and net written premiums exceeded that of 2010 as each of our property casualty segments experienced significant increases in 2011 premiums. Improving pricing during 2011 occurred in each of those segments and is further discussed in the results of operations sections below by segment. A fourth straight year of higher new business premiums reflected our premium growth initiatives from recent years that continue to favorably affect current year growth, particularly as newer agency relationships mature over time. Agents appointed during 2010 or 2011 produced an increase in standard lines new business of $31 million during 2011, compared with 2010. Improving insured exposure level comparatives from the slow economic recovery also favorably affected premium growth, primarily in our commercial lines segment. The contributions to premiums from audits, which are significantly affected by economic trends, are further discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations beginning on Page 57. Other written premiums &ndash; primarily premiums ceded to our reinsurers as part of our reinsurance program &ndash; contributed negative $63 million to the $135 million of growth in 2011 net written premiums. The change in other written premiums was primarily due to $42 million of ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty. During the second quarter of 2011, we purchased reinsurance to replenish coverage for certain layers of our property catastrophe treaty that were used by the first half 2011 catastrophe events discussed below. This coverage, also known as third and fourth event cover, added $26 million of ceded premiums for 2011. There were no material ceded premium effects during 2010 or 2009 from unusual items such as reinstatement premiums or the third and fourth event cover. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 51 The table below analyzes premium revenue components and trends. Premium trends by segment are further discussed beginning on Page 58, Page 69 and Page 75, for the respective property casualty segments. Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $2,867 $2,692 $2,665 7 1 Agency new business written premiums 437 414 405 6 2 Other written premiums (206) (143) (159) (44) 10 Net written premiums 3,098 2,963 2,911 5 2 Unearned premium change (69) (39) 0 (77) nm Earned premiums $3,029 $2,924 $2,911 4 0 &middot; Combined ratio &ndash; The 2011 combined ratio rose 7.5 percentage points compared with 2010, primarily due to an 8.2 percentage point increase in the ratio for catastrophe losses. The ratio effect of additional ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty contributed 1.4 percentage points to the 7.5 point rise in the 2011 ratio. The combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior year reserve development improved in 2011, in part benefiting from recent year initiatives to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices. Our statutory combined ratio was 108.9 percent in 2011 compared with 101.8 percent in 2010 and 104.4 percent in 2009. The estimated property casualty industry, excluding mortgage and financial guaranty segments, was 107.5 percent in 2011, 101.0 percent in 2010 and 99.5 percent in 2009. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our statutory combined ratio was 13.3 percentage points in 2011, 5.1 percentage points in 2010 and 5.7 percentage points in 2009, compared with an estimated 10.1, 4.6 and 3.4 percentage points, respectively, for the industry. Components of the combined ratio are discussed below, followed by additional discussion by segment. Catastrophe losses trends are an important factor in assessing trends for overall underwriting results. Incurred losses from a May 20 27, 2011, storm system that included Joplin, Missouri represent the single largest catastrophe event in our companys history. The gross amount for that event is estimated at $239 million, including significant losses from hail in the Dayton, Ohio, area. The total gross amount of our losses incurred for all catastrophe events during the year 2011 is estimated at $658 million. Our 10 year historical annual average contribution of catastrophe losses to the combined ratio was 5.4 percentage points as of December 31, 2011. The 2011 ratio of catastrophe losses included 0.4 percentage points from losses of $11 million for our participation in assumed reinsurance treaties that spread the risk of very high catastrophe losses among many insurers. The majority of the assumed reinsurance losses were for the first quarter 2011 earthquake in Japan. The only assumed reinsurance treaty for which we had a material exposure has been reserved at the $7 million policy limit for the Japan earthquake event. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 52 The following table shows catastrophe losses incurred, net of reinsurance, for the past three years, as well as the effect of loss development on prior period catastrophe reserves. Catastrophe Losses Incurred (In millions, net of reinsurance) Excess Commercial Personal and surplus Dates Event Region lines lines lines Total 2011 Jan. 31 Feb. 3 Freezing, wind South, Midwest $4 $3 $ $7 Feb. 21 Earthquake New Zealand 4 4 Feb. 27 28 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest 3 6 9 Mar. 11 Earthquake Japan 7 7 Mar. 26 28 Hail, wind South 1 6 7 Apr. 3 5 Hail, wind, tornado South, Midwest 15 23 38 Apr. 8 11 Hail, wind, tornado South, Midwest 11 8 19 Apr. 14 16 Hail, wind, tornado South, Midwest 10 4 14 Apr. 19 20 Hail, wind South, Midwest 13 11 24 Apr. 22 28 Hail, wind, tornado South, Midwest 45 31 76 May 20 27 Hail, wind, tornado South, Midwest 42 51 93 May 29 Jun. 1 Hail, wind, tornado East, Midwest 2 1 3 Jun. 16 22 Hail, wind, tornado South, Midwest 7 6 13 Jul. 1 4 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest 3 2 5 Jul. 10 14 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest, West 4 6 10 Aug. 18 19 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest 9 1 10 Aug. 26 28 Hurricane, wind, tornado East 22 6 28 Sep. 3 6 Tornado, wind South 9 5 14 All other 2011 catastrophes 14 11 1 26 Development on 2010 and prior catastrophes 2 (7) (5) Calendar year incurred total $227 $174 $1 $402 2010 Jan. 7 12 Freezing, wind South, Midwest $4 $1 $ $5 Feb. 9 11 Freezing, wind East, Midwest 4 1 5 Apr. 4 6 Hail, wind, tornado South, Midwest 4 6 10 Apr. 30 May 3 Hail, wind, tornado South 21 6 27 May 7 8 Hail, wind, tornado East, Midwest 2 12 14 May 12 16 Hail, wind, tornado South, Midwest 7 2 9 Jun. 4 6 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest 2 2 1 5 Jun. 17 20 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest, West 5 3 8 Jun. 21 24 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest 2 3 5 Jun. 25 28 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest 3 5 8 Jun. 30 Jul. 1 Hail, wind West 4 4 8 Jul. 20 23 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest 12 4 16 Oct. 4 6 Hail, wind South 6 1 7 Oct. 26 28 Hail, wind, tornado Midwest 6 4 10 All other 2010 catastrophes 19 9 28 Development on 2009 and prior catastrophes (12) (5) (17) Calendar year incurred total $89 $58 $1 $148 2009 Jan. 26 28 Freezing South, Midwest $5 $14 $ $19 Feb. 10 13 Hail, wind South, Midwest 13 25 38 Feb. 18 19 Hail, wind South 1 8 9 Apr. 9 11 Hail, wind South, Midwest 13 21 34 May 7 9 Hail, wind South, Midwest 9 13 22 Jun. 2 6 Hail, wind South, Midwest 3 4 7 Jun. 10 18 Hail, wind South, Midwest 7 4 11 Sep. 18 22 Hail, wind South 3 4 7 All other 2009 catastrophes 12 13 25 Development on 2008 and prior catastrophes (12) 5 (7) Calendar year incurred total $54 $111 $ $165 Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 53 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the three year highlights table on Page 51 are for the respective current accident years, and reserve development on prior accident years is shown separately. Since less than half of our consolidated property casualty current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid losses, the majority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 79.2 percent accident year 2010 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2010, developed favorably by 6.0 percentage points to 73.2 percent due to settling claims for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2011. Accident years 2010 and 2009 have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $2,620 $2,140 $2,050 86.4% 73.2% 70.4% as of December 31, 2010 2,319 2,084 79.2 71.6 as of December 31, 2009 2,274 78.1 Catastrophe loss trends, discussed above, drove the increase in 2011 current accident year loss and loss expenses compared with 2010. Catastrophe losses added 13.4 percentage points for 2011, 5.6 points for 2010 and 5.9 points for 2009 to the respective consolidated property casualty accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. The trend for our current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years included unique items for 2011 discussed below, in addition to normal loss cost inflation and higher pricing. The 73.0 percent ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2011 declined 0.6 percentage points compared with the 73.6 percent accident year 2010 ratio measured as of December 31, 2010. The effect of the $42 million ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty increased the 2011 ratio by 1.0 percentage point. Large losses described below and the corresponding ratios for new losses above $250,000 caused a 1.5 percentage point increase in the 2011 ratio. A refinement to our line of business allocation process for loss expenses reduced the 2011 accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophes ratio by approximately 1.5 percentage points. We believe the remainder of the reduction is largely due to initiatives to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices, somewhat offset by normal loss cost inflation. The refined allocation had no effect on earnings or consolidated property casualty ratios reported on a calendar year basis. The allocation refinement pertained to the portion of loss expenses referred to as AOE, and is discussed in Item 8, Note 18 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 136. Discussion of AOE reserves is included in Critical Accounting Estimates, How Reserves Are Established, Page 42. Reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2011, as $285 million was recognized, 6 percent less than $304 million in 2010. Approximately 80 percent of our reserve development on prior accident years recognized during 2011 occurred in our commercial casualty and workers compensation lines of business. Development recognized during 2009 and 2010 was primarily from our commercial casualty line of business. Development by line of business is further analyzed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, Page 93, and in Personal Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, Page 95. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 54 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Losses by Size Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $56 $49 $57 14 (14) New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 173 142 147 22 (3) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 217 200 212 9 (6) Case reserve development above $250,000 210 178 265 18 (33) Total large losses incurred 656 569 681 15 (16) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 898 935 860 (4) 9 Catastrophe losses 395 148 165 167 (10) Total net losses incurred $1,949 $1,652 $1,706 18 (3) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: New losses greater than $4,000,000 1.9% 1.7% 2.0% 0.2 (0.3) New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 5.7 4.8 5.1 0.9 (0.3) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 7.2 6.8 7.3 0.4 (0.5) Case reserve development above $250,000 6.9 6.1 9.0 0.8 (2.9) Total large loss ratio 21.7 19.4 23.4 2.3 (4.0) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 29.6 32.0 29.5 (2.4) 2.5 Catastrophe losses 13.1 5.1 5.7 8.0 (0.6) Total net loss ratio 64.4% 56.5% 58.6% 7.9 (2.1) In 2011, total large losses incurred rose by $87 million or 15 percent, net of reinsurance, helping to raise the corresponding ratio by 2.3 percentage points. Large loss trends are further analyzed in the segment discussion below. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 55 Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Underwriting Expenses Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Commission expenses $565 $544 $550 4 (1) Other underwriting expenses 393 402 389 (2) 3 Policyholder dividends 16 14 17 14 (18) Total underwriting expenses $974 $960 $956 1 0 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 18.7% 18.6% 18.9% 0.1 (0.3) Other underwriting expenses 13.0 13.7 13.3 (0.7) 0.4 Policyholder dividends 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.0 (0.1) Total underwriting expense ratio 32.2% 32.8% 32.8% (0.6) 0.0 Commission expenses include our profit sharing commissions, which are primarily based on one year and three year profitability of an agencys business. The aggregate profit trend for agencies that earn these profit based commissions can differ from the aggregate profit trend for all agencies reflected in our consolidated property casualty results. In 2011, the ratio for property casualty profit sharing commissions declined slightly while the ratio for total commissions rose slightly, netting to a small increase of 0.1 percentage point. In 2011, other underwriting expenses were down $9 million or 2 percent, primarily due to a first quarter 2010 provision for matters involving prior years and related to Note 16, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, Page 134. The combined effects of a 4 percent increase in earned premiums and a 2 percent decrease in other underwriting expenses resulted in a ratio that was 0.7 percentage points lower. Salaries, benefits and payroll taxes for our associates account for approximately half of our property casualty other underwriting expenses. Most of our associates either provide direct service to the property casualty portion of our agencies business or provide support to those associates. Since the end of 2009 the total number of associates and contractors, on a consolidated basis, declined 4 percent, reflecting careful management of our non commission expenses. The total number of field associates providing direct service to agencies rose by 4 percent, reflecting our emphasis on providing excellent service. Discussions below of our property casualty insurance segments provide additional detail about our results. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 56 Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations Overview &ndash; Three Year Highlights Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Earned premiums $2,197 $2,154 $2,199 2 (2) Fee revenues 3 2 2 50 0 Total revenues 2,200 2,156 2,201 2 (2) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 1,579 1,605 1,596 (2) 1 Current accident year catastrophe losses 225 101 66 123 53 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (236) (257) (135) 8 (90) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 2 (12) (12) nm 0 Total loss and loss expenses 1,570 1,437 1,515 9 (5) Underwriting expenses 731 704 719 4 (2) Underwriting profit (loss) $(101) $15 $(33) nm nm Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 71.8% 74.5% 72.5% (2.7) 2.0 Current accident year catastrophe losses 10.3 4.7 3.0 5.6 1.7 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (10.8) (11.9) (6.1) 1.1 (5.8) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.1 (0.6) (0.5) 0.7 (0.1) Total loss and loss expenses 71.4 66.7 68.9 4.7 (2.2) Underwriting expenses 33.3 32.7 32.7 0.6 0.0 Combined ratio 104.7% 99.4% 101.6% 5.3 (2.2) Combined ratio: 104.7% 99.4% 101.6% 5.3 (2.2) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (0.4) (7.8) (3.6) 7.4 (4.2) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 105.1% 107.2% 105.2% (2.1) 2.0 Performance highlights for the commercial lines segment include: &middot; Premiums &ndash; Earned premiums and net written premiums rose in 2011, primarily due to an $85 million increase in renewal written premiums that reflected the effects of slowly improving economic conditions and improved pricing. Premium growth initiatives that helped new business written premiums grow $18 million in 2011 also contributed to earned and net written premium growth. Earned and net written premiums were up in 2011 despite the partially offsetting effect of $24 million for ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty. &middot; Combined ratio &ndash; The 2011 combined ratio was 5.3 percentage points higher than in 2010, primarily due to a 6.3 percentage point rise in the ratio for catastrophe losses. The ratio effect of additional ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty essentially offset the favorable effect of a refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses. The combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development improved in 2011, in part benefiting from recent year initiatives to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices. Initiatives to improve commercial lines underwriting profitability complement our business practices that continue to leverage the local presence of our field staff, who meet with local agencies to assess each risk, determine limits of insurance and establish appropriate terms and conditions. Our field marketing representatives continue to underwrite new business while loss control, machinery and equipment and field claims representatives continue to conduct on site inspections. Field claims representatives also assist underwriters by preparing full reports on their firsthand observations of risk quality. Our commercial lines statutory combined ratio was 104.2 percent in 2011 compared with 99.6 percent in 2010 and 101.9 percent in 2009. The estimated commercial lines combined ratios for the industry were 108.2 percent in 2011, 102.7 percent in 2010 and 103.0 percent in 2009. Industry ratios reported for 2011 and 2010 excluded the mortgage and financial guaranty segments. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our commercial lines statutory combined ratio was 10.4 percentage points in 2011, 4.1 percent points in 2010 and 2.5 percentage points in 2009, compared with an estimated 8.5, 3.5 and 1.8 percentage points, respectively, for the industry. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 57 Commercial Lines Insurance Premiums Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $2,063 $1,978 $2,013 4 (2) Agency new business written premiums 307 289 298 6 (3) Other written premiums (152) (112) (130) (36) 14 Net written premiums 2,218 2,155 2,181 3 (1) Unearned premium change (21) (1) 18 nm nm Earned premiums $2,197 $2,154 $2,199 2 (2) Due to the highly competitive commercial lines markets during the past several years, we have focused on increasing our use of predictive analytics tools to improve pricing precision while also leveraging our local relationships with agents through the efforts of our teams that work closely with them. We believe our field focus is unique and has several advantages, including providing us with quality intelligence on local market conditions. We seek to maintain appropriate pricing discipline for both new and renewal business as management emphasizes the importance of our agencies and underwriters assessing account quality to make careful decisions on a case by case basis whether to write or renew a policy. Rate credits may be used to retain renewals of quality business and to earn new business, but we do so selectively in order to avoid commercial accounts that we believe have insufficient profit margins. We began in 2009 to use a predictive modeling tool for our workers compensation line of business, working to better align individual insurance policy pricing to risk attributes. We believe such tools are improving our pricing precision. For example, for the year 2011 we achieved average renewal pricing increases three to four times higher for workers compensation rating segments indicated as lower quality in our model compared with the higher quality rating segments. During 2011, our underwriters began full use of predictive modeling tools for our other major commercial lines of business: commercial auto, general liability and commercial property coverages in our commercial package accounts. Underwriters using these tools have enhanced abilities to target profitability and to discuss pricing impacts with agency personnel. The 4 percent increase in 2011 agency renewal written premiums in part reflected improving pricing trends compared with recent years. We measure average changes in commercial lines renewal pricing as the rate of change in renewal premium for the new policy period compared with the premium for the expiring policy period, assuming no change in the level of insured exposures or policy coverage between those periods for respective policies. Our commercial lines pricing transitioned from having a negative effect on renewal written premiums in the first half of 2011 to having a positive effect in the last half. During the fourth quarter of 2011, our standard commercial lines policies averaged an estimated price change that increased in a low to mid single digit range, an improvement compared with a slightly positive price change during the third quarter of 2011 and a first half 2011 negative price change in the low single digit range. For policies renewed during both 2010 and 2009, the typical pricing change was a decline, on average in the low single digit range, representing an improvement from the mid single digit range average pricing decline experienced in 2008. Consistent with several commercial lines industry pricing surveys in recent years, our larger accounts typically experienced more pressure to lower pricing upon renewal. Our smaller accounts sometimes saw little if any premium decrease at renewal. For the last half of 2011, we estimated that 75 percent to 80 percent of our standard commercial lines policies renewed at flat or higher prices. While our commercial lines policy retention rates have remained fairly stable in recent years, agency renewal written premium trends reflected the effects of economic slowdown or recovery in various regions. Changes in the economy affect insured exposures that directly relate to premium amounts for any given policy. For commercial accounts, we usually calculate initial estimates for general liability premiums based on estimated sales or payroll volume, while we calculate workers compensation premiums based on payroll volume. A change in sales or payroll volume generally indicates a change in demand for a businesss goods or services, as well as a change in its exposure to risk. Policyholders who experience sales or payroll volume changes due to economic factors may also have other exposures requiring insurance, such as commercial auto or commercial property, in addition to general liability and workers compensation. Premium levels for these other types of coverages generally are not linked directly to sales or payroll volumes. Premiums resulting from audits of actual sales or payrolls that confirmed or adjusted initial premium estimates significantly affected premium trends in recent years. On an earned premium basis, audits contributed $46 million of the $43 million earned premiums increase in 2011 and $15 million of the $45 million earned premiums decrease in 2010. On a net written premium basis, audits contributed $34 million of the $63 million net written premiums increase in 2011 and $23 million of the $26 million net written premiums decrease in 2010. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 58 In 2011, our commercial lines new business premiums written by our agencies grew 6 percent, reversing the new business decline of 3 percent for 2010. For new business, our field associates are frequently in our agents offices helping to judge the quality of each account, emphasizing the Cincinnati value proposition, calling on sales prospects with those agents, carefully evaluating risk exposure and providing their best quotes. Some of our new business comes from accounts that are not new to the agent. We believe these seasoned accounts tend to be priced more accurately than business that may be less familiar to our agent in cases where it was recently obtained from a competing agent. As we appoint new agencies who choose to move accounts to us, we report these accounts as new business to us. New business premium volume in recent years has been significantly influenced by new agency appointments. All agencies newly appointed since the beginning of 2010 generated commercial lines new business written premiums of $34 million during 2011, up $26 million from 2010, while all other agencies contributed the remaining $273 million, which was down 3 percent. Many of the recently appointed agencies are in five states we entered since 2008: Texas, Colorado, Connecticut, Oregon and Wyoming. Those states accounted for 11 percent of the $307 million 2011 new business volume. On a net written premium basis, agencies in those states contributed $69 million of commercial lines volume during 2011, up $29 million from 2010. New states represent significant potential for long term premium growth. Based on our history of appointing new agencies, we generally earn a 10 percent share of an agencys business within 10 years of its appointment. The table below summarizes agents contribution to our commercial lines new business and net written premiums for the five states we entered since 2008. Net written premiums are earned over the term covered by insurance policies and are an important leading indicator of earned premium revenue trends. Year Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) Entered 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % New business written premiums: Texas 2008 $20 $19 $11 5 73 Colorado 2009 7 8 1 (13) 700 Connecticut 2010 2 nm nm Oregon 2010 3 nm nm Wyoming 2009 2 nm nm Subtotal 34 27 12 26 125 All other states 273 262 286 4 (8) Total $307 $289 $298 6 (3) Net written premiums: Texas 2008 $46 $30 $11 53 173 Colorado 2009 15 10 1 50 900 Connecticut 2010 2 nm nm Oregon 2010 4 nm nm Wyoming 2009 2 nm nm Subtotal 69 40 12 73 233 All other states 2,149 2,115 2,169 2 (2) Total $2,218 $2,155 $2,181 3 (1) Other written premiums, primarily premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and that lower our net written premiums, had a significantly greater unfavorable effect in 2011 compared with 2010. The $40 million change was driven by additional ceded premiums for our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty, $24 million for reinstatement premiums following two large catastrophe events during 2011 and $14 million for the third and fourth event cover that was discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51. For estimated premiums of policies in effect but not yet processed, 2011 had a less favorable adjustment and 2010 had a more favorable adjustment, both compared with the prior year. The adjustment for estimated premiums had an immaterial effect on earned premiums. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 59 Commercial Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the three year highlights table on Page 57 are for the respective current accident years, and reserve development on prior accident years is shown separately. Since less than half of our consolidated property casualty current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid losses, the majority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 79.2 percent accident year 2010 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2010, developed favorably by 6.9 percentage points to 72.3 percent due to settling claims for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2011. Accident years 2010 and 2009 for the commercial lines segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $1,804 $1,557 $1,467 82.1% 72.3% 66.7% as of December 31, 2010 1,706 1,485 79.2 67.5 as of December 31, 2009 1,662 75.5 Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51, explain much of the movement in current accident year loss and loss expense ratios among years 2009 through 2011. Catastrophe losses added 10.3 percentage points for 2011, 4.7 points for 2010 and 3.0 points for 2009 to the respective commercial lines accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. The trend for our commercial lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years included unique items for 2011 discussed below, in addition to normal loss cost inflation and higher pricing. The 71.8 percent ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2011 declined 2.7 percentage points compared with the 74.5 percent accident year 2010 ratio measured as of December 31, 2010. The effect of the $24 million ceded to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty increased the 2011 ratio by 0.8 percentage points. Large losses, described below, and the corresponding ratios for new losses above $250,000 caused a 1.9 percentage point rise in the 2011 ratio. The refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses reduced the 2011 ratio by approximately 3 percentage points. We believe the remainder of the reduction is largely due to initiatives to improve pricing precision and loss experience related to claims and loss control practices, somewhat offset by normal loss cost inflation. Commercial lines reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2011, as $234 million was recognized, somewhat lower than $269 million in 2010. More than 95 percent of our commercial lines reserve development on prior accident years recognized during 2011 occurred in our commercial casualty and workers compensation lines of business, with a slight majority occurring in the commercial casualty. Development recognized during 2009 and 2010 was mostly from our commercial casualty line of business. Development by line of business and other trends for commercial lines loss and loss expenses and the related ratios are further analyzed in Commercial Lines of Business Analysis, beginning on Page 62, and in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, Page 93. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 60 Commercial Lines Insurance Losses by Size Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $56 $44 $52 27 (15) New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 148 120 130 23 (8) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 156 148 164 5 (10) Case reserve development above $250,000 187 164 245 14 (33) Total large losses incurred 547 476 591 15 (19) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 517 587 565 (12) 4 Catastrophe losses 223 89 54 151 65 Total net losses incurred $1,287 $1,152 $1,210 12 (5) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: New losses greater than $4,000,000 2.6% 2.0% 2.4% 0.6 (0.4) New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 6.7 5.6 5.9 1.1 (0.3) New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 7.1 6.9 7.5 0.2 (0.6) Case reserve development above $250,000 8.5 7.6 11.2 0.9 (3.6) Total large loss ratio 24.9 22.1 27.0 2.8 (4.9) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 23.5 27.3 25.7 (3.8) 1.6 Catastrophe losses 10.2 4.1 2.5 6.1 1.6 Total net loss ratio 58.6% 53.5% 55.2% 5.1 (1.7) In 2011, total large losses incurred increased by $71 million or 15 percent, net of reinsurance, helping to raise the corresponding ratio by 2.8 percentage points. The majority of the increase was for higher incurred losses for fires and commercial auto claims. In 2010 the total large losses incurred ratio was lower than it was in 2009, primarily due to lower incurred losses for general liability coverages largely included in our commercial casualty line of business. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs. Commercial Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Commission expenses $415 $391 $408 6 (4) Other underwriting expenses 300 299 294 0 2 Policyholder dividends 16 14 17 14 (18) Total underwriting expenses $731 $704 $719 4 (2) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 18.9% 18.2% 18.6% 0.7 (0.4) Other underwriting expenses 13.7 13.8 13.3 (0.1) 0.5 Policyholder dividends 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.0 (0.1) Total underwriting expense ratio 33.3% 32.7% 32.7% 0.6 0.0 Commercial lines commission expenses as a percent of earned premium increased slightly during 2011, in part due to higher agency profit sharing commissions. Although the commercial lines segment had an underwriting loss in 2011, compared with a small underwriting profit in 2010, the agencies that earned profit sharing commissions for their commercial lines business did so at a higher aggregate amount in 2011. Other underwriting expenses for 2011 and the corresponding ratio was essentially flat compared with the 2010 level. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 61 Commercial Lines of Business Analysis Approximately 95 percent of our commercial lines premiums relate to accounts with coverages from more than one of our business lines. As a result, we believe that the commercial lines segment is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to analyze growth and profitability trends separately for each line. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of incurred loss and loss expenses and corresponding ratios over the most recent three accident years. Accident year data classifies losses according to the year in which the corresponding loss events occur, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, recorded or paid. For 2011, commercial casualty, our largest line of business with earned premiums representing over 30 percent of commercial lines segment earned premiums, continued to be very profitable, based on the total loss and loss expense ratio. Commercial property and specialty packages had 2011 total loss and loss expense ratios significantly higher than we desired, largely due to unusually high weather related losses in 2011. As discussed below, we are taking actions to improve pricing and reduce loss costs to benefit future profitability trends. The executive risk portion of bond and executive risk continues to experience effects from the U.S. credit crisis of 2008, as most of our prior accident year claims related to financial institution liability developed unfavorably. Since the credit crisis, many of our financial institution policies have been non renewed, reducing exposure for this portion of our bond and executive risk business. Profitability trends for workers compensation continued to improve, reflecting what we believe are the results of initiatives to improve pricing and reduce loss costs. Commercial Casualty Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Commercial casualty: Net written premiums $710 $686 $704 3 (3) Earned premiums 711 693 712 3 (3) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 496 555 542 (11) 2 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (132) (186) (154) 29 (21) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $364 $369 $388 (1) (5) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 69.7% 80.1% 76.2% (10.4) 3.9 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (18.5) (26.9) (21.6) 8.4 (5.3) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 51.2% 53.2% 54.6% (2.0) (1.4) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $496 $438 $449 69.7% 63.2% 63.1% as of December 31, 2010 555 437 80.1 61.4 as of December 31, 2009 542 76.2 Commercial casualty is our largest line of business and has in recent years maintained a very satisfactory total loss and loss expense ratio. Premium growth trends for 2011 reversed compared with 2010, largely reflecting the slowly improving economy in addition to higher pricing. As discussed in the commercial lines insurance premiums section of Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations, on Page 58, economic trends cause corresponding changes in underlying insured exposures, including general liability coverage where the premium amount is heavily influenced by economically driven measures of risk exposure such as sales volume. Slowly improving economic factors during 2011 helped increase commercial casualty net written and earned premiums, including favorable effects for premiums from audits. Also during 2011, our underwriters began full use of predictive modeling tools for general liability coverages in our commercial package accounts, and we believe such tools are improving our pricing precision. The 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio improved, primarily due to the lower current accident year losses and loss expenses and higher earned premiums. Favorable development on prior accident year reserves continued in 2011 at a significant level, reflecting favorable loss emergence trends and a further moderation in loss cost trends, particularly for umbrella liability coverage included in many commercial package accounts. Development trends are further discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, Page 93. The 2011 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses improved by 10.4 percentage points compared with accident year 2010, largely reflecting higher earned premiums from improving economic trends and pricing that offset normal loss cost inflation. In addition, the refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses reduced the 2011 ratio by approximately 4 percentage points. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 62 Commercial Property Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Commercial property: Net written premiums $512 $497 $485 3 2 Earned premiums 497 489 485 2 1 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 309 286 257 8 11 Current accident year catastrophe losses 146 75 42 95 79 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (21) (3) (5) (600) 40 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 3 (7) (11) nm 36 Total loss and loss expenses $437 $351 $283 25 24 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 62.1% 58.4% 53.1% 3.7 5.3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 29.4 15.4 8.8 14.0 6.6 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (4.1) (0.6) (1.1) (3.5) 0.5 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.7 (1.4) (2.2) 2.1 0.8 Total loss and loss expense ratio 88.1% 71.8% 58.6% 16.3 13.2 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $455 $352 $287 91.5% 72.0% 59.2% as of December 31, 2010 361 291 73.8 60.2 as of December 31, 2009 299 61.9 Commercial property net written premiums and earned premiums for 2011 rose, largely due to improving pricing trends. The 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio rose 16.3 percentage points primarily due to a 16.1 point increase in catastrophe losses. In addition, the ratio increased 5.2 percentage points from higher large losses related to fires, and it also rose from other weather related losses that were not identified as part of designated catastrophe events for the property casualty industry, typically referred to as non catastrophe weather losses. The effect of the $13 million ceded to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty increased the 2011 ratio by 2.2 percentage points. The refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses reduced the 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio by 3.5 percentage points and also had the effect of decreasing the ratio for current accident year before catastrophe losses. The 2011 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses also rose, compared with accident year 2010, largely due to higher large losses from fires and increased losses from non catastrophe weather. In 2011, we began full use of predictive modeling tools for property coverages in our commercial package accounts to improve our pricing precision. We also increased our loss control staff, including more specialization in the areas of conducting property inspections for both new and renewal business. We believe these initiatives will improve profitability over time. Commercial Auto Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Commercial auto: Net written premiums $405 $385 $388 5 (1) Earned premiums 394 384 394 3 (3) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 294 269 273 9 (1) Current accident year catastrophe losses 7 4 3 75 33 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (27) (32) (20) 16 (60) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 (1) 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $274 $240 $256 14 (6) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 74.5% 70.0% 69.2% 4.5 0.8 Current accident year catastrophe losses 1.9 1.1 0.7 0.8 0.4 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (6.9) (8.2) (5.0) 1.3 (3.2) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.2) (0.3) 0.0 0.1 (0.3) Total loss and loss expense ratio 69.3% 62.6% 64.9% 6.7 (2.3) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $301 $259 $246 76.4% 67.5% 62.5% as of December 31, 2010 273 253 71.1 64.2 as of December 31, 2009 276 69.9 Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 63 Net written premiums and earned premiums for commercial auto were up in 2011, partly from improving pricing trends. Commercial auto is one of the business lines that we renew and price annually, so market trends may be reflected for this line of business sooner than for some other commercial lines. Higher new business written premiums from agencies accounted for $7 million of the $20 million increase in net written premiums. The 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio rose 6.7 percentage points, largely due to a 3.6 point increase from higher large losses. The refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses contributed 1.7 percentage points to the 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio and also contributed to the increase in the ratio for the current accident year before catastrophe losses. The 2011 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses rose 4.5 percentage points, compared with accident year 2010, primarily due to a rise in loss cost trends that might relate to the improving economy, combined with pricing that improved more slowly. Non catastrophe weather losses also had a slight adverse effect on the ratio. Workers Compensation Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Workers compensation: Net written premiums $312 $310 $323 1 (4) Earned premiums 318 311 326 2 (5) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 307 331 355 (7) (7) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (97) (39) 48 (149) nm Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $210 $292 $403 (28) (28) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 96.6% 106.5% 108.8% (9.9) (2.3) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (30.5) (12.6) 14.7 (17.9) (27.3) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 66.1% 93.9% 123.5% (27.8) (29.6) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $307 $299 $283 96.6% 96.3% 86.7% as of December 31, 2010 331 302 106.5 92.4 as of December 31, 2009 355 108.8 Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 64 Workers compensation net written premiums and earned premiums rose in 2011 as higher pricing offset a $3 million reduction in new business written premiums that reflected particularly cautious risk selection. As discussed in the commercial lines insurance premiums section of Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations, on Page 58, economic trends cause corresponding changes in underlying insured exposures, including workers compensation coverage where the premium amount is heavily influenced by economically driven measures of risk exposure such as payroll volume. Slowly improving economic factors during 2011 helped increase net written and earned premiums, including favorable effects from premiums resulting from audits. The 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio was 27.8 percentage points lower, reflecting both higher favorable development on prior accident year reserves and lower current accident year losses and loss expenses. The refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses reduced the 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio by 11.5 percentage points and also had the effect of decreasing the ratio for current accident year before catastrophe losses. The 2011 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio declined 9.9 percentage points compared with accident year 2010, estimated as of December 31, 2010. In addition to the favorable effect of the refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses, the loss portion of the ratio improved, reflecting initiatives begun early in 2010 as discussed below. Favorable development on prior accident year reserves rose in 2011, primarily due to more favorable trends in loss payments as well as case reserves. The indicated calendar year trend for future loss payments has decreased slightly, but such decreases have a leveraged effect on less mature accident years. Development trends are further discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, Page 93. Since we pay a lower commission rate on workers compensation business, relative to our other commercial lines of business, this line has a higher calendar year loss and loss expense breakeven point than our other commercial business lines. The ratio was at an unprofitable level in recent years, and management continues to work to improve financial performance for this line. We believe various initiatives in recent years contributed to the improved profitability trend since 2009. During 2009, we began using a predictive modeling tool to improve risk selection and pricing adequacy. Predictive modeling increases precision and thereby facilitates adequate pricing so that our agents can better compete for the most desirable workers compensation business. In 2010, we also added to our staff of loss control field representatives, premium audit field representatives and field claims representatives specializing in workers compensation risks. In early 2010, we implemented direct reporting of workers compensation claims, allowing us to quickly obtain detailed information to promptly assign the appropriate level of claims handling expertise to each case. Obtaining more information sooner for specific claims allows for medical care appropriate to the nature of each injury, benefiting injured workers, employers and agents while ultimately lowering overall loss costs. The workers compensation business line includes our longest tail exposures, making initial estimates of accident year loss and loss expenses incurred more uncertain. Due to the lengthy payout period of workers compensation claims, small shifts in medical cost inflation and payout periods could have a significant effect on our potential future liability compared with our current projections. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 65 Specialty Packages Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Specialty packages: Net written premiums $137 $149 $148 (8) 1 Earned premiums 138 149 147 (7) 1 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 98 91 84 8 8 Current accident year catastrophe losses 72 22 21 227 5 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 6 2 1 200 100 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (1) (4) (1) 75 (300) Total loss and loss expenses $175 $111 $105 58 6 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 70.9% 61.1% 56.9% 9.8 4.2 Current accident year catastrophe losses 51.8 14.5 14.2 37.3 0.3 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 3.9 1.8 0.3 2.1 1.5 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.6) (2.6) (0.8) 2.0 (1.8) Total loss and loss expense ratio 126.0% 74.8% 70.6% 51.2 4.2 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $170 $114 $106 122.7% 76.7% 71.9% as of December 31, 2010 113 105 75.6 71.1 as of December 31, 2009 105 71.1 Specialty packages net written premiums and earned premiums were down in 2011, primarily due to ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty. The 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio rose 51.2 percentage points primarily due to a 39.3 point increase in catastrophe losses. It also rose from other weather related losses that were not identified as part of designated catastrophe events for the property casualty industry, typically referred to as non catastrophe weather losses. The effect of the $10 million in premiums ceded to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty increased the 2011 ratio by 8.4 percentage points. The 2011 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses also increased, compared with accident year 2010, largely due to non catastrophe weather and the effects of reinstatement premiums. In 2011 we began full use of predictive modeling tools for auto, general liability and property coverages for some commercial package accounts included in specialty packages. We believe these pricing analytics tools will improve our pricing precision and our loss ratios over time. By late 2012 we expect to be using predictive modeling tools to improve our pricing precision for certain additional business policies included in our specialty packages line of business. We also increased our loss control staff, including more specialization in the areas of conducting property inspections for both new and renewal business. We believe these initiatives will improve profitability over time. Surety and Executive Risk Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Surety and executive risk: Net written premiums $104 $93 $101 12 (8) Earned premiums 103 95 104 8 (9) Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 65 64 76 2 (16) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 34 3 (3) nm nm Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $99 $67 $73 48 (8) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 63.7% 66.5% 73.2% (2.8) (6.7) Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 33.0 3.4 (2.7) 29.6 6.1 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total loss and loss expense ratio 96.7% 69.9% 70.5% 26.8 (0.6) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $65 $85 $89 63.7% 88.5% 85.6% as of December 31, 2010 64 90 66.5 86.7 as of December 31, 2009 76 73.2 Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 66 Net written premiums and earned premiums for surety and executive risk rose in 2011, partly from a $3 million increase in new business written premiums. In addition, premiums ceded to reinsurers had less of a downward effect on net written premiums and earned premiums in 2011. Ceded premiums were reduced due to better than expected loss experience in recent years, resulting in lower rates charged by reinsurers. The 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio rose 26.8 percentage points due to a 29.6 point increase from unfavorable development on prior accident year reserves. Included in the unfavorable development was $13 million or 13.1 percentage points for the refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses. The refined allocation had a negligible effect on the ratio for the current accident year before catastrophe losses. Most of the remainder of unfavorable development on prior accident year reserves was for four claims from accident year 2008, two for director and officer liability and two for fidelity bonding due to fraud or lending practices at financial institutions. The 2011 current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses improved 2.8 percentage points, compared with accident year 2010, reflecting an improved loss climate for financial institutions. We continue to address the potential risk inherent in the financial institutions portion of our surety and executive risk business line as we work with our agents to identify the strongest financial institutions, in addition to using credit rating and other metrics to carefully re underwrite in force policies when they are considered for renewal. We have actively managed the potentially high risk of writing director and officer liability by: &middot; Marketing primarily to nonprofit organizations, which accounted for approximately 64 percent of the policies and 30 percent of the premium volume for director and officer liability new business written in 2011. &middot; Closely monitoring our for profit policyholders &ndash; At year end 2011, our director and officer liability policies in force provided coverage to 15 non financial publicly traded companies, including two Fortune 1000 companies. We also provided this coverage to approximately 500 banks, savings and loans and other financial institutions. The majority of these financial institution policyholders are smaller community banks, and we believe they have no unusual exposure to credit market concerns, including subprime mortgages. Based on new policy data or information from the most recent policy renewal, only 10 of our bank and savings and loan policyholders have assets greater than $2 billion; only 23 have assets from $1 billion to $2 billion; and 45 have assets from $500 million to $1 billion. &middot; Writing on a claims made basis, which normally restricts coverage to losses reported during the policy term. &middot; Providing limits no higher than $10 million with facultative or treaty reinsurance in place in 2012 to cover losses greater than $6 million. Machinery and Equipment Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Machinery and equipment: Net written premiums $38 $35 $32 9 9 Earned premiums 36 33 31 9 6 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 10 9 9 11 0 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 1 (2) (2) nm 0 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $11 $7 $7 57 0 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 26.9% 28.2% 26.9% (1.3) 1.3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 0.1 0.0 0.3 0.1 (0.3) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses 1.2 (6.0) (5.8) 7.2 (0.2) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.0 (0.3) 0.2 0.3 (0.5) Total loss and loss expense ratio 28.2% 21.9% 21.6% 6.3 0.3 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $10 $10 $7 27.0% 30.5% 22.7% as of December 31, 2010 9 7 28.2 23.3 as of December 31, 2009 9 27.2 Machinery and equipment premiums continued to rise over the three year period, reflecting our superior service, including experienced local specialists who support agencies in writing this line of business. The total and accident year loss and loss expense ratios remain at profitable levels, although they can fluctuate substantially due to the relatively small size of this business line. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 67 Commercial Lines Insurance Outlook Net written premiums for the commercial lines industry, excluding the mortgage and financial guaranty segments, are projected to increase approximately 4 percent in 2012 with the industry statutory combined ratio estimated at approximately 104 percent. Over the past several years, renewal and new business pricing has experienced significant competitive pressure, reinforcing the need for more pricing analytics and careful risk selection. While competition remains intense, overall commercial lines market pricing turned positive toward the end of 2011 according to several industry surveys, and average renewal pricing for our commercial lines segment also turned positive. Opinions vary, according to a variety of reports that focus on the commercial lines market, regarding the sustainability of improved pricing. According to A.M. Best, further rate firming in select commercial lines is anticipated during 2012, following pricing stabilization during 2011. Despite challenging market conditions, we believe we can manage our business and execute strategic initiatives to offset market pressures to some extent and still profitably grow our commercial lines segment. We intend to continue marketing our products to a broad range of business classes with a package approach, while improving our pricing precision. We intend to maintain our underwriting selectivity and carefully manage our rate levels as well as our programs that seek to accurately match exposures with appropriate premiums. We will continue to evaluate each risk individually and to make decisions about rates, the use of three year commercial policies and other policy conditions on a case by case basis, even in lines and classes of business that are under competitive pressure. We believe our initiatives to improve pricing precision and lower loss costs will continue to benefit commercial lines profitability during 2012, and that recent year premium growth initiatives will continue to increase commercial lines premiums. In Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 10 we discuss the initiatives we are implementing to achieve our corporate performance objectives. We discuss factors influencing future results of our property casualty insurance operations in the Executive Summary, Page 38. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 68 Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations Overview &ndash; Three Year Highlights Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Earned premiums $762 $721 $685 6 5 Fee revenues 1 2 1 (50) 100 Total revenues 763 723 686 6 5 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 584 508 485 15 5 Current accident year catastrophe losses 181 63 106 187 (41) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (35) (29) (45) (21) 36 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (7) (5) 5 (40) nm Total loss and loss expenses 723 537 551 35 (3) Underwriting expenses 221 240 215 (8) 12 Underwriting loss $(181) $(54) $(80) (235) 33 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 76.7% 70.4% 70.9% 6.3 (0.5) Current accident year catastrophe losses 23.6 8.8 15.4 14.8 (6.6) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (4.5) (4.1) (6.6) (0.4) 2.5 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.9) (0.7) 0.7 (0.2) (1.4) Total loss and loss expenses 94.9 74.4 80.4 20.5 (6.0) Underwriting expenses 29.0 33.3 31.4 (4.3) 1.9 Combined ratio 123.9% 107.7% 111.8% 16.2 (4.1) Combined ratio: 123.9% 107.7% 111.8% 16.2 (4.1) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 18.2 4.0 9.5 14.2 (5.5) Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 105.7% 103.7% 102.3% 2.0 1.4 Performance highlights for the personal lines segment include: &middot; Premiums &ndash; Earned premiums and net written premiums increased in 2011, primarily due to higher renewal written premiums that reflected improved pricing. Growth in earned and net written premiums occurred despite the partially offsetting effect of $18 million for ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty. &middot; Combined ratio &ndash; The 2011 combined ratio was 16.2 percentage points higher than in 2010, primarily due to higher catastrophe losses totaling 14.6 percentage points, plus other weather related losses that offset the favorable effects of improved pricing and a lower underwriting expense ratio. Additional ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty and the effect of a refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses also contributed to the higher 2011 combined ratio. Our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 124.2 percent in 2011, 107.1 percent in 2010 and 111.4 percent in 2009. By comparison, the estimated industry personal lines combined ratio was 107.4 percent in 2011, 100.4 percent in 2010 and 100.6 percent in 2009. Our concentration of business in areas hard hit by catastrophe events contributed to recent results that differed from the overall industry, an issue we are addressing in part through geographic expansion. Since early 2008, we have worked to improve our geographic diversification by expanding our personal lines operation to several states less prone to catastrophes, including the western states of Arizona, Idaho, Montana, and Utah. We have also non renewed approximately 2,600 homeowner policies in Florida and Alabama that we believe were the most exposed to losses from hurricane damage. The contribution of catastrophe losses to our personal lines statutory combined ratio was 22.7 percentage points in 2011, 8.1 percentage points in 2010 and 16.1 percentage points in 2009, compared with an estimated 10.5, 5.3 and 4.9 percentage points, respectively, for the industry. Personal Lines Insurance Premiums Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Agency renewal written premiums $755 $685 $642 10 7 Agency new business written premiums 95 90 75 6 20 Other written premiums (49) (25) (26) (96) 4 Net written premiums 801 750 691 7 9 Unearned premium change (39) (29) (6) (34) (383) Earned premiums $762 $721 $685 6 5 Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 69 Personal lines insurance is a strategic component of our overall relationship with most of our agencies and an important component of our agencies relationships with their clients. We believe agents recommend Cincinnati personal insurance products for their value oriented clients who seek to balance quality and price and who are attracted by our superior claims service and the benefits of our package approach. We began using predictive modeling tools for our largest personal lines of business in 2009 and 2010 to increase our pricing sophistication. We believe our efforts to continue improving pricing precision are helping us attract and retain more of our agencies preferred business, while also obtaining higher rates for more thinly priced business. For example, for the year 2011 our average renewal pricing increases were approximately 50 percent higher for homeowner insurance rating segments indicated as lower quality in our model compared with the higher quality rating segments. The 10 percent increase in 2011 agency renewal written premiums reflected various rate changes during recent years. In October 2011 we began our third round of increases for the homeowner line of business, averaging approximately 8 percent, with some individual policy rate increases lower or higher based on attributes of risk that characterize the insured exposure. That followed rate changes averaging approximately 7 percent that were implemented beginning the fourth quarter of 2010 for states representing the majority of our personal lines business. Similar rate changes averaging approximately 6 percent were implemented beginning October 2009. Beginning in the second quarter of 2012, we are implementing rate changes for our personal auto line of business in the majority of the 29 states where we market personal lines policies. The average rate change is an increase in the low single digit range, with some individual policies experiencing lower or higher rates based on enhanced pricing precision enabled by predictive models. Rate changes for personal auto implemented during the fourth quarter of 2010 also represented an average rate increase in the low single digit range. In 2011, our personal lines new business premiums written by our agencies grew 6 percent, following 2010 growth at a rate of 20 percent. A primary reason for the higher rate of growth during 2010 was agent response to a new version of our Diamond personal lines policy processing system deployed in early 2010. Other written premiums, primarily premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and that lower our net written premiums, nearly doubled in 2011 compared with 2010 and 2009. The change was driven by additional ceded premiums for our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty, including $18 million for reinstatement premiums following two large catastrophe events during 2011 and $12 million for the third and fourth event cover that was discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51. Personal Lines Insurance Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the three year highlights table on Page 69 are for the respective current accident years, and reserve development on prior accident years is shown separately. Since approximately two thirds of our personal lines current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represent net paid losses, the remaining one third represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 79.2 percent accident year 2010 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2010, developed favorably by 3.6 percentage points to 75.6 percent due to settling claims for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2011. Accident years 2010 and 2009 for the personal lines segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $765 $545 $569 100.3% 75.6% 83.0% as of December 31, 2010 571 579 79.2 84.5 as of December 31, 2009 591 86.3 Catastrophe losses, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51, explain much of the movement in current accident year loss and loss expense ratios among the years 2009 through 2011. Catastrophe losses added 23.6 percentage points for 2011, 8.8 points for 2010 and 15.4 points for 2009 to the respective personal lines accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. Catastrophe losses were unusually high during 2011 and 2009, and also are inherently volatile, as discussed above and in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51. The trend for our personal lines current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses over the past three years reflected unique unfavorable items for 2011 discussed below in addition to normal loss cost inflation and higher pricing. For 2011 the unfavorable effects offset the favorable effects of better risk selection and improved pricing discussed above in Personal Lines Insurance Premiums. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 70 The 76.7 percent ratio for current accident year loss and loss expenses before catastrophe losses for 2011 rose 6.3 percentage points compared with the 70.4 percent accident year 2010 ratio measured as of December 31, 2010. Some weather related losses not identified as part of designated catastrophe events for the property casualty industry are typically referred to as non catastrophe weather losses. For our homeowner line of business alone, non catastrophe weather losses from wind, hail and lightning were $22 million higher during 2011 compared with 2010, raising the 2011 loss ratio by 2.3 percentage points. The effect of the $18 million ceded to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty increased the 2011 ratio by 1.8 percentage points. The refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses added approximately 3 percentage points to the 2011 ratio. Large losses described below were a minor factor as the ratio for new losses above $250,000 rose by 0.4 percentage points. Personal lines reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2011, as $42 million was recognized, somewhat higher than $34 million in 2010 and $40 million in 2009. Approximately 90 percent of our personal lines reserve development on prior accident years recognized during 2011 occurred in our homeowner line of business and our other personal line of business, in nearly equal amounts for each line. Development recognized during 2009 and 2010 was mostly from our other personal line of business, primarily for personal umbrella liability coverage. Development by line of business and other trends for personal lines loss and loss expenses and the related ratios are further analyzed in Personal Lines of Business Analysis, beginning on Page 72, and in Personal Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, Page 95. Personal Lines Insurance Losses by Size Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $0 $5 $5 (100) 0 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 25 20 17 25 18 New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 48 41 48 17 (15) Case reserve development above $250,000 19 11 19 73 (42) Total large losses incurred 92 77 89 19 (13) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 365 336 281 9 20 Catastrophe losses 171 58 111 195 (48) Total net losses incurred $628 $471 $481 33 (2) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: New losses greater than $4,000,000 0.0% 0.7% 0.7% (0.7) 0.0 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 3.3 2.8 2.5 0.5 0.3 New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 6.3 5.7 6.9 0.6 (1.2) Case reserve development above $250,000 2.5 1.6 2.8 0.9 (1.2) Total large loss ratio 12.1 10.8 12.9 1.3 (2.1) Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 47.9 46.5 41.1 1.4 5.4 Catastrophe losses 22.5 8.1 16.2 14.4 (8.1) Total net loss ratio 82.5% 65.4% 70.2% 17.1 (4.8) In 2011, total large losses incurred increased by $15 million or 19 percent, net of reinsurance,contributing to the corresponding ratio increase of 1.3 percentage points. The majority of the increase was for claims related to our personal auto line of business. In 2010 the total large losses incurred ratio was lower than it was in 2009, primarily due to lower personal auto losses. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs. Personal Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Commission expenses $139 $145 $137 (4) 6 Other underwriting expenses 82 95 78 (14) 22 Total underwriting expenses $221 $240 $215 (8) 12 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 18.2% 20.1% 19.9% (1.9) 0.2 Other underwriting expenses 10.8 13.2 11.5 (2.4) 1.7 Total underwriting expense ratio 29.0% 33.3% 31.4% (4.3) 1.9 Personal lines commission expense as a percent of earned premium decreased in 2011, primarily due to lower agency profit sharing commissions. In 2010 higher agency profit sharing commission drove the increase. Other underwriting expenses decreased $13 million in 2011, primarily due to a first quarter 2010 provision for matters involving prior years and related to Note 16, Commitments and Contingent Liabilities, Page 134. The provision also accounted for the majority of the increase in 2010. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 71 Personal Lines of Business Analysis We prefer to write personal lines coverages within accounts that include both auto and homeowner coverages as well as coverages from the other personal business line. As a result, we believe that the personal lines segment is best measured and evaluated on a segment basis. However, we provide line of business data to analyze growth and profitability trends separately for each line. The accident year loss data provides current estimates of incurred loss and loss expenses and corresponding ratios over the most recent three accident years. Accident year data classifies losses according to the year in which the corresponding loss events occur, regardless of when the losses are actually reported, recorded or paid. For 2011, the homeowner line of business continued to have a total loss and loss expense ratio significantly higher than desired. As discussed in the overview section of Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 69, and below, we are taking actions to improve pricing and reduce loss costs that we expect to benefit future profitability trends. Personal Auto Years ended December 31, 2011 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Personal auto: Net written premiums $385 $352 $324 9 9 Earned premiums 368 337 319 9 6 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 282 239 224 18 7 Current accident year catastrophe losses 11 3 3 267 0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (3) (7) (6) 57 (17) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (1) 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $289 $235 $221 23 6 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 76.7% 70.9% 70.2% 5.8 0.7 Current accident year catastrophe losses 3.0 1.1 1.0 1.9 0.1 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (0.8) (2.1) (2.0) 1.3 (0.1) Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.2) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) 0.1 Total loss and loss expense ratio 78.7% 69.8% 69.0% 8.9 0.8 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $293 $241 $223 79.7% 71.6% 69.8% as of December 31, 2010 242 225 72.0 70.4 as of December 31, 2009 227 71.2 Net written premiums for personal auto increased significantly in 2011, largely due to very strong new business growth during 2010 that resulted in the opportunity to renew many accounts for the first time during 2011. Rate increases also contributed to the growth. The total loss and loss expense ratio rose 8.9 percentage points, in part due to a 1.8 point increase from catastrophe losses plus a 2.4 point increase from losses above $250,000. The refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses added another 8.5 percentage points to the 2011 total loss and loss expense ratio and also contributed to the increase in the ratio for the current accident year before catastrophe losses. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 72 Homeowner Years ended December 31, 2011 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Homeowner: Net written premiums $312 $299 $275 4 9 Earned premiums 294 289 276 2 5 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 231 208 202 11 3 Current accident year catastrophe losses 158 56 96 182 (42) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (14) (2) (5) (600) 60 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (6) (4) 5 (50) nm Total loss and loss expenses $369 $258 $298 43 (13) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 78.7% 72.0% 73.0% 6.7 (1.0) Current accident year catastrophe losses 53.6 19.3 34.7 34.3 (15.4) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (4.5) (0.9) (1.6) (3.6) 0.7 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (2.0) (1.4) 1.7 (0.6) (3.1) Total loss and loss expense ratio 125.8% 89.0% 107.8% 36.8 (18.8) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $389 $248 $289 132.3% 86.1% 104.7% as of December 31, 2010 264 295 91.3 106.9 as of December 31, 2009 298 107.7 Net written premiums for homeowner grew $13 million in 2011, reflecting higher renewal premiums that were partially offset by higher ceded premiums for reinsurance. Premiums ceded for reinsurance, which reduce premium revenue, were $40 million in 2011, $18 million in 2010, and $22 million in 2009. The total ceded premiums for 2011 included $16 million to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty and $9 million for the third and fourth event cover. We continue efforts to improve pricing precision through predictive analytics, which we believe will help to achieve long term profitability. Various rate changes should help lower loss ratios as the rate increases are earned. Those rate changes were implemented beginning in October of 2011, 2010 and 2009 and averaged approximately 8 percent, 7 percent and 6 percent, respectively. We also continued our gradual expansion into states less prone to catastrophe losses, which we believe will reduce variability in the long term future catastrophe loss ratio. In recent years we have non renewed approximately 2,600 policies in Florida and Alabama that we believe were the most exposed to losses from hurricane damage. These actions represent important steps we are taking to improve homeowner results. The total loss and loss expense ratio over the past three years largely fluctuated with catastrophe losses, non catastrophe weather related losses and other large losses. For the four year period 2008 through 2011, the homeowner catastrophe loss ratio averaged 34.7 percent, approximately double the 17.4 percent 10 year average for the years 1998 through 2007. The 36.8 percentage point increase in the ratio for 2011 included an increase of 33.7 points for catastrophe losses. Non catastrophe weather losses from wind, hail and lightning were $22 million higher during 2011, raising the 2011 loss ratio by 6.0 percentage points compared with 2010. A $4 million increase in 2011 large losses, compared with 2010, increased the homeowner loss ratio by 1.1 percentage points. The effect of the $16 million ceded premiums to reinstate coverage layers of our property catastrophe reinsurance treaty increased the 2011 ratio by 6.4 percentage points. The current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses remained high in 2011 and rose 6.7 points above the 2010 ratio, largely due to the same non catastrophe weather related losses and reinsurance reinstatement effects noted above that impacted the total loss and loss expense ratio. Favorable development on prior accident year reserves rose in 2011, primarily due to case reserve development on accident years 2009 and 2010. Development trends for are further discussed in Personal Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, Page 95. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 73 Other Personal Years ended December 31, 2011 2011 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Other personal: Net written premiums $104 $99 $92 5 8 Earned premiums 100 95 90 5 6 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 71 61 60 16 2 Current accident year catastrophe losses 12 4 7 200 (43) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (18) (20) (34) 10 41 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 (1) 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses $65 $44 $33 48 33 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 70.7% 64.1% 66.9% 6.6 (2.8) Current accident year catastrophe losses 11.7 3.8 7.7 7.9 (3.9) Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (17.9) (20.8) (38.3) 2.9 17.5 Prior accident years catastrophe losses (0.5) (0.5) 0.6 0.0 (1.1) Total loss and loss expense ratio 64.0% 46.6% 36.9% 17.4 9.7 Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $83 $56 $57 82.4% 58.0% 63.2% as of December 31, 2010 65 59 67.9 65.9 as of December 31, 2009 67 74.6 Other personal premiums increased in 2011 and 2010, generally tracking with the growth in our personal auto and homeowner lines before the effects of reinsurance. Most of our other personal coverages are endorsed to homeowner or auto policies. In addition to umbrella liability coverage, our other personal lines policies provide property oriented coverages such as dwelling fire and inland marine. While still at a profitable level, the total and current accident year loss and loss expense ratios for other personal increased in 2011, reflecting the results of higher catastrophes and non catastrophe weather. Reserve development on prior accident years recognized during 2011 was similar to 2010, although it can fluctuate significantly for this business line because personal umbrella liability coverage is a major component of other personal losses. Development trends are further discussed in Personal Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year, Page 95. Personal Lines Insurance Outlook A.M. Best projects industrywide personal lines written premiums may grow approximately 3 percent in 2012, with an industry statutory combined ratio estimated at approximately 102 percent. Due to rate increases implemented in late 2011 and a stable policy retention rate, plus the effect of an accelerated pace for recent year new agency appointments, we believe our growth rate will likely be higher than the industry projection for 2012. In Item 1, Strategic Initiatives, Page 10, and Personal Lines Results of Operations, Pages 69 through 73, we discuss various actions we are taking to address the unsatisfactory performance of our personal lines segment, in particular the homeowner line of business. We also describe steps to enhance our response to the changing marketplace. Our personal lines pricing trends need to exceed loss trends to improve personal lines profitability, thereby helping to achieve our corporate financial targets. We discuss our overall outlook for our property casualty insurance operations in the Executive Summary, Page 38. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 74 Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations Overview &ndash; Three Year Highlights Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Earned premiums $70 $49 $27 43 81 Loss and loss expenses from: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 50 41 21 22 95 Current accident year catastrophe losses 1 1 0 0 nm Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (9) (1) (1) nm 0 Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0 0 0 nm nm Total loss and loss expenses 42 41 20 2 105 Underwriting expenses 22 16 22 38 (27) Underwriting profit (loss) $6 $(8) $(15) nm 47 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Current accident year before catastrophe losses 71.0% 83.8% 75.4% (12.8) 8.4 Current accident year catastrophe losses 2.1 1.2 0.2 0.9 1.0 Prior accident years before catastrophe losses (12.9) (1.3) (0.9) (11.6) (0.4) Prior accident years catastrophe losses 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 Total loss and loss expenses 60.3 83.7 74.7 (23.4) 9.0 Underwriting expenses 31.9 31.7 80.2 0.2 (48.5) Combined ratio 92.2% 115.4% 154.9% (23.2) (39.5) Combined ratio: 92.2% 115.4% 154.9% (23.2) (39.5) Contribution from catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development (10.7) (0.1) (0.7) (10.6) 0.6 Combined ratio before catastrophe losses and prior years reserve development 102.9% 115.5% 155.6% (12.6) (40.1) Our excess and surplus lines segment includes results of The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company and CSU Producer Resources. Performance highlights for the excess and surplus lines segment include: &middot; Premiums &ndash; Higher earned premiums in 2011 resulted from ongoing strong growth in net written premiums. The year 2011 represented our fourth full year of operations for our excess and surplus lines segment. Growth of net written premiums in 2011 was driven by higher renewal written premiums that included rising average renewal price increases. New business written premiums for 2011 were essentially flat compared with 2010, reflecting strong competition in the excess and surplus lines market. &middot; Combined ratio &ndash; The combined ratio improved in 2011, primarily due to earned premium growth outpacing somewhat higher total loss and loss expenses. The total loss and loss expense ratio decrease was driven by lower ratios for current accident year loss and loss expenses plus higher levels of net favorable reserve development on prior accident years. Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Premiums Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Renewal written premiums $49 $29 $10 69 190 New business written premiums 35 35 32 0 9 Other written premiums (5) (6) (3) 17 (100) Net written premiums 79 58 39 36 49 Unearned premium change (9) (9) (12) 0 25 Earned premiums $70 $49 $27 43 81 The $20 million increase in renewal premiums in 2011 reflected the opportunity to renew many policies for the first time as well as higher renewal pricing. Renewal pricing changes during 2011 ranged from a low single digit range earlier in the year to a mid single digit range later in the year, improving over the flat to slightly up range for the second half of 2010. We measure average changes in excess and surplus lines renewal pricing as the rate of change in renewal premium for the new policy period compared with the premium for the expiring policy period, assuming no change in the level of insured exposures or policy coverage between those periods for respective policies. New business written premiums for the year 2011 were steady compared with 2010, a result of careful underwriting in a market that was highly competitive, as evidenced by standard market companies writing policies for risks formerly insurable only in the excess and surplus lines market. We observed many cases where competing carriers offered policy terms and conditions that were less restrictive than those we observed in the past for similar risks, without a corresponding premium for the broadened insurance coverage. Therefore, we declined to write many of those new business and also some renewal business opportunities. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 75 Other written premiums are primarily premiums that are ceded to reinsurers and that lower our net written premiums. Ceded premium volume was less in 2011 than in 2010, despite higher written premiums subject to reinsurance, because of more favorable reinsurance pricing. Beginning in 2011, treaty reinsurance for our excess and surplus lines segment was provided by The Cincinnati Insurance Company except for our corporate property catastrophe treaty, where The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company is a named insured under the treaty. In previous years, all reinsurance for our excess and surplus lines segment was provided by third party reinsurers. Reinsurance arrangements are further discussed in 2012 Reinsurance Programs, Page 98. Excess and Surplus Lines Loss and Loss Expenses Loss and loss expenses include both net paid losses and reserve changes for unpaid losses, as well as the associated loss expenses. Most of the incurred losses and loss expenses shown in the three year highlights table on Page 75 are for the respective current accident years, and reserve development on prior accident years is shown separately. Since less than 20 percent of our 2011 excess and surplus lines current accident year incurred losses and loss expenses represents net paid losses, a large majority represents reserves for our estimate of ultimate losses and loss expenses. These reserves develop over time, and we re estimate previously reported reserves as we learn more about the development of the related claims. The table below illustrates that development. For example, the 85.0 percent accident year 2010 loss and loss expense ratio reported as of December 31, 2010, developed favorably by 7.4 percentage points to 77.6 percent due to settling claims for less than previously estimated, or due to updated reserve estimates for unpaid claims, as of December 31, 2011. Accident years 2010 and 2009 for this segment have both developed favorably, as indicated by the progression over time for the ratios in the table. (Dollars in millions) Accident year loss and loss expenses incurred and ratios to earned premiums: Accident Year: 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 as of December 31, 2011 $51 $38 $14 73.1% 77.6% 52.7% as of December 31, 2010 42 20 85.0 73.5 as of December 31, 2009 20 75.6 Catastrophe losses for all segments were higher in 2011 compared with 2010, as discussed in Consolidated Property Casualty Insurance Results of Operations, Page 51. For the excess and surplus lines segment, catastrophe losses rose somewhat, but the resulting higher ratio for the catastrophe loss component of the loss and loss expense ratio was offset by other factors. Catastrophe losses added 2.1 percentage points for 2011, 1.2 for 2010 and 0.2 percentage points for 2009 to the respective excess and surplus lines accident year loss and loss expense ratios in the table above. The 2011 decrease of 12.8 percentage points in the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses was due in part to trends for large losses incurred relative to earned premium trends, as shown in the table below. New losses of $250,000 or more per claim totaled $13 million in 2011, compared with $12 million in 2010. Relative to significant growth in earned premiums, the modest rise in new large losses reduced the ratio by 5.1 percentage points. Higher pricing, as discussed in Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Premiums above, also helped reduce the current accident year loss and loss expense ratio before catastrophe losses for 2011 compared with 2010. Excess and surplus lines reserve development on prior accident years continued to net to a favorable amount in 2011 as $9 million was recognized, resulting in a loss and loss expenses ratio significantly lower than in 2010 and 2009. The 2011 favorable development was primarily due to more reliance on claims experience emergence patterns from our excess and surplus lines business for IBNR loss and loss expense estimates, with relatively less reliance on historical claims experience emergence patterns from similar lines of business for our standard commercial lines business. We believe the loss and loss expenses reserves for our excess and surplus lines business are adequate. We establish case reserves in a manner consistent with standard lines coverages, despite the more restrictive terms and conditions for excess and surplus lines policies. Our first excess and surplus lines policies were written in 2008. After two years of operation, reserves for estimated unpaid losses and loss expenses were $18 million as of December 31, 2009, for losses that occurred in 2008 and 2009. As of December 31, 2011, an estimated $9 million remained unpaid for loss events that occurred in 2008 and 2009. The inherent uncertainty in estimating reserves is discussed in Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 42. Development trends are further analyzed in Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year Reserves, Page 96. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 76 Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Losses by Size Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % New losses greater than $4,000,000 $0 $0 $0 nm nm New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 0 3 0 (100) nm New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 13 9 0 44 nm Case reserve development above $250,000 4 3 1 33 200 Total large losses incurred 17 15 1 13 nm Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 16 13 14 23 (7) Catastrophe losses 1 1 0 0 nm Total net losses incurred $34 $29 $15 17 93 Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: New losses greater than $4,000,000 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0 0.0 New losses $1,000,000 $4,000,000 0.0 5.1 0.0 (5.1) 5.1 New losses $250,000 $1,000,000 18.4 18.4 1.5 0.0 16.9 Case reserve development above $250,000 5.8 14.2 1.9 (8.4) 12.3 Total large loss ratio 24.2 37.7 3.4 (13.5) 34.3 Other losses excluding catastrophe losses 22.6 27.0 47.1 (4.4) (20.1) Catastrophe losses 2.2 1.2 0.0 1.0 1.2 Total net loss ratio 49.0% 65.9% 50.5% (16.9) 15.4 In 2011, total large losses incurred increased by $2 million or 13 percent, net of reinsurance, a rate much lower than earned premium growth at 43 percent, helping to lower the corresponding ratio by 13.5 percentage points, compared with 2010. In 2010 the total large losses incurred ratio rose as the rate of growth in losses significantly outpaced earned premium growth. Our analysis indicated no unexpected concentration of these losses and reserve increases by risk category, geographic region, policy inception, agency or field marketing territory. We believe the inherent volatility of aggregate loss experience for our portfolio of larger policies is greater than that of our portfolio of smaller policies, and we continue to monitor the volatility in addition to general inflationary trends in loss costs. Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Underwriting Expenses Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Commission expenses $12 $8 $5 50 60 Other underwriting expenses 10 8 17 25 (53) Total underwriting expenses $22 $16 $22 38 (27) Pt. Change Pt. Change Ratios as a percent of earned premiums: Commission expenses 17.3% 16.5% 18.0% 0.8 (1.5) Other underwriting expenses 14.6 15.2 62.2 (0.6) (47.0) Total underwriting expense ratio 31.9% 31.7% 80.2% 0.2 (48.5) Excess and surplus lines commission expense as a percent of earned premiums rose in 2011, primarily due to the absence of ceding commissions formerly received from our third party reinsurers. As discussed above, beginning in 2011 treaty reinsurance for our excess and surplus lines segment was provided by The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Other underwriting expenses declined in 2011 as a percent of earned premiums primarily due to lower technology related costs and earned premiums rising faster than expenses. The ratio for other underwriting expenses declined in 2010 primarily due to the reduction of various start up costs that occurred during 2008 and 2009, the first two years of our excess and surplus lines operation. The primary category of expense reduction was development costs for our rating and policy administration system. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 77 Excess and Surplus Lines Outlook The excess and surplus lines markets are expected to see slight firming in 2012, according to several industry reports. Competition is expected to remain strong, in part due to standard market insurance companies insuring businesses that previously were written by excess and surplus lines insurers. While soft market conditions for commercial lines business overall is the driver of this trend, some firming is expected primarily for property coverage due to industry catastrophe losses and for select casualty classes of business where loss costs are exceeding rates. The slowly recovering U.S. economy, another major factor in demand for insurance products, is also expected to contribute to modestly increasing premium volume during 2012 for the excess and surplus lines industry. Industry reports suggest that opportunities for managing profitability and growth exist through greater use of technology. Technology and data are also being used by excess and surplus lines insurance companies to identify new exposures in emerging businesses that need insurance protection or other value added services. Our strategy of providing superior service is expected to continue to grow our excess and surplus lines segment and achieve profitability despite challenging market conditions. We intend to continue carefully selecting and pricing risks, providing prompt delivery of insurance quotes and policies and outstanding claims and loss control service from local field representatives who also handle the standard lines business for their assigned agencies. These local representatives are supported by headquarters underwriters and claims managers who specialize in excess and surplus lines. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 78 Life Insurance Results of Operations Overview &ndash; Three Year Highlights Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Earned premiums $165 $158 $143 4 10 Separate account investment management fees 2 1 0 100 nm Total revenues 167 159 143 5 11 Contract holders benefits incurred 189 170 160 11 6 Investment interest credited to contract holders (81) (79) (69) (3) (14) Operating expenses incurred 62 61 50 2 22 Total benefits and expenses 170 152 141 12 8 Life insurance segment profit (loss) $(3) $7 $2 nm 250 Performance highlights for the life insurance segment include: &middot;Revenues &ndash; Earned premiums rose 4 percent for the year 2011. The largest life insurance product line, term life insurance, continued to grow earned premiums at a strong rate, up 9 percent in 2011. Gross in force policy face amounts rose to $77.691 billion at year end 2011 from $74.124 billion at year end 2010 and $69.815 billion at year end 2009. &middot;Profitability &ndash; The life insurance segment frequently reports only a small profit or loss because most of its investment income is included in investment segment results. We include only investment income credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations) in life insurance segment results. The segment reported a $3 million loss in 2011 and has averaged a $2 million profit over the past six years. Life Insurance Premiums Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Term life insurance $105 $96 $86 9 12 Universal life insurance 32 35 28 (9) 25 Other life insurance, annuity, and disability income products 28 27 29 4 (7) Net earned premiums $165 $158 $143 4 10 We market term, whole and universal life products, fixed annuities and disability income products. In addition, we offer term, whole and universal life and disability insurance to employees at their worksite. These products provide our property casualty agency force with excellent cross serving opportunities for both commercial and personal accounts. Earned premiums increased in 2011 largely because of growth in our term life insurance business. Earned premiums from term insurance grew $9 million, or 9 percent. Separate account investment management fee income contributed $2 million to total revenue in 2011, compared with $1 million contribution in 2010 and less than $1 million in 2009. Over the past several years, we have worked to maintain a portfolio of simple, yet competitive products, primarily under the LifeHorizons banner. Our product development efforts emphasize death benefit protection and guarantees. Distribution expansion within our property casualty insurance agencies remains a high priority. In the past several years, we have added life field marketing representatives for the western, southeastern and northeastern states. Our 32 life field marketing representatives work in partnership with our 125 property casualty field marketing representatives. Approximately 69 percent of our term and other life insurance product premiums were generated through our property casualty insurance agency relationships. Life Insurance Profitability Although we exclude most of our life insurance company investment income from investment segment results, we recognize that assets under management, capital appreciation and investment income are integral to evaluation of the success of the life insurance segment because of the long duration of life products. On a basis that includes investment income and realized gains or losses from life insurance related invested assets, the life insurance company reported a net profit of $20 million in 2011, compared with a net profit of $39 million in 2010 and a net profit of $22 million in 2009. The life insurance company portfolio had after tax net realized investment losses of $12 million in 2011, which included $20 million in OTTI charges, compared with after tax net realized investment gains of $2 million in 2010. Net realized investment losses were $13 million in 2009, including $15 million in OTTI charges. Realized investment gains and losses are discussed under Investment Results of Operations, Page 81. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 79 Life segment expenses consist principally of: &middot;Contract holders benefits incurred, related to traditional life and interest sensitive products, accounted for 75.3 percent of 2011 total benefits and expenses compared with 73.6 percent in 2010 and 76.4 percent in 2009. Total contract holders benefits rose due to net death claims that increased but remained within our range of pricing expectations. &middot;Operating expenses incurred, net of deferred acquisition costs, accounted for 24.7 percent of 2011 total benefits and expenses compared with 26.4 percent in 2010 and 23.6 percent in 2009. Expenses in 2011 were up slightly, primarily due to increased health care expenses for company associates. Life segment profitability depends largely on premium levels, the adequacy of product pricing, underwriting skill and operating efficiencies. Life segment results include only investment interest credited to contract holders (interest assumed in life insurance policy reserve calculations). The remaining investment income is reported in the investment segment results. The life investment portfolio is managed to earn target spreads between earned investment rates on general account assets and rates credited to policyholders. We consider the value of assets under management and investment income for the life investment portfolio as key performance indicators for the life insurance segment. We seek to maintain a competitive advantage with respect to benefits paid and reserve increases by consistently achieving better than average claims experience due to skilled underwriting. Commissions paid by the life insurance operation are on par with industry averages. Life Insurance Outlook The life insurance industry was challenged in 2011 by a persistently low interest rate environment. It now appears likely rates will remain low through 2013 as the Federal Reserve has indicated its intent to keep short term rates low into 2014. Low interest rates pressure earnings by reducing investment income. They are particularly troublesome for interest sensitive products that are already crediting interest at or near their guaranteed minimum rates and for products with a fixed rate of interest embedded into their benefit structure. Because of this low rate environment, we expect broad but incremental price increases in the life industry in 2012 as companies seek to maintain profit targets in a competitive pricing environment. Such activity is expected to decrease marketplace stability. In addition, turbulence generated from recent introduction of term universal life products could magnify instability in the term market. It now appears likely that pending regulation will clarify existing reserving rules and will effectively discourage term universal life sales. We view this development as a positive since we continue to market term products with simple, more traditional designs. While the economic picture for the U.S. appears to be improving, there is still a lot of uncertainty in a sustained recovery due to high unemployment, low GDP, declining home values and the eurozone crisis. These same factors adversely affected life insurance industry application activity, which was effectively flat last year. Any material uptick will likely be contingent on a stronger U.S. economy and will remain vulnerable to these factors if they continue. We retain a positive outlook despite all of these obstacles because of our unique distribution system and emphasis on service. We see the historically low ownership of life insurance as a great opportunity and believe that independent agents are the perfect messengers to communicate the value and stability that our products offer. Our property casualty agencies remain the main distribution system for our life insurance segment, and we continue to emphasize securing an increasing share of the life insurance premium produced by these agencies. While other life insurers expand nontraditional distribution channels such as direct sales, we intend to market through agencies affiliated with our property casualty insurance operations or independent life only agencies. In 2011, our property casualty agencies produced 69 percent and our life only agencies 31 percent of our life insurance premium. Operational improvements in technology continue to make it easier for our agents to do business with us. Major milestones completed in 2011 include the introduction of a suite of electronic applications and the outsourcing of the policy administration of non core business. Planned projects in 2012 include an upgraded commissions system and additional straight through processing efforts, highlighted by an electronic enrollment system for our worksite line of business. Worksite products are a natural cross sell opportunity for commercial lines agencies and were collectively one of our fastest growing lines in 2011. As planned, annuity sales moderated in 2011. Given the interest rate issues discussed above, we do not expect to aggressively market our annuity products in 2012. We feel that our asset liability management program allows us to manage the risk to in force business, and we intend to try to keep the impact of new money to a manageable level. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 80 Investment Results of Operations Overview &ndash; Three Year Highlights Investment Results Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Total investment income, net of expenses, pre tax $525 $518 $501 1 3 Investment interest credited to contract holders (81) (79) (69) (3) (14) Realized investment gains and losses summary: Realized investment gains and losses 128 185 440 (31) (58) Change in fair value of securities with embedded derivatives (1) 10 27 nm (63) Other than temporary impairment charges (57) (36) (131) (58) 73 Total realized investment gains and losses 70 159 336 (56) (53) Investment operations profit $514 $598 $768 (14) (22) The investment segment contributes investment income and realized gains and losses to results of operations. Investments provide our primary source of pretax and after tax profits. &middot;Investment income &ndash; Pretax investment income increased 1 percent in 2011, primarily because of a higher average dividend payment rate for common stocks in our equity portfolio. Pretax investment income increased 3 percent in 2010, primarily because of additional net purchases in our fixed maturity portfolio that offset declining bond yields. For the investment portfolio in total, additional net purchases slowed in 2011 relative to 2010 due to higher catastrophe losses that reduced net cash provided by operating activities. After tax investment income increased 1 percent in 2011, down from 2 percent in 2010, primarily due to lower additional net purchases in our total investment portfolio. &middot;Realized investment gains and losses &ndash; We reported realized investment gains in all three years, largely due to investment sales that were discretionary in timing and amount. Those sales were somewhat offset by OTTI charges. Investment Income The primary drivers of investment income were: &middot;Interest income was essentially flat for 2011 as the average fixed maturity pretax yield declined by approximately 20 basis points, offsetting a slightly rising fixed maturity portfolio on an amortized cost basis. It rose 5 percent in 2010 due to investing our typical allocation of net cash flow from operations in fixed maturity securities. &middot;Dividend income rose 5 percent in 2011 after declining 1 percent in 2010. Increases in dividend payment rates for many of the holdings in our common stock portfolio during 2011 drove the increase in dividend income. In 2011, we continued to invest available cash flow in both fixed income and equity securities in a manner that we believe balances current income needs with longer term invested assets growth goals. Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Investment income: Interest $424 $423 $402 0 5 Dividends 104 99 100 5 (1) Other 4 4 7 0 (43) Investment expenses (7) (8) (8) 13 0 Total investment income, net of expenses, pre tax 525 518 501 1 3 Income taxes (129) (126) (118) (2) (7) Total investment income, net of expenses, after tax $396 $392 $383 1 2 Effective tax rate 24.6% 24.4% 23.6% Average invested assets plus cash and cash equivalents $11,471 $11,129 $10,495 Average yield pre tax 4.6% 4.7% 4.8% Average yield after tax 3.5% 3.5% 3.6% Effective fixed maturity tax rate 26.7% 26.4% 25.5% Average fixed maturity at amortized cost $7,986 $7,704 $6,831 Average fixed maturity yield pre tax 5.3% 5.5% 5.9% Average fixed maturity yield after tax 3.9% 4.0% 4.4% Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 81 Net Realized Investment Gains and Losses Net realized investment gains and losses are made up of realized investment gains and losses on the sale of securities, changes in the valuation of embedded derivatives within certain convertible securities and OTTI charges. These three areas are discussed below. Investment gains or losses are recognized upon the sales of investments or as otherwise required under GAAP. The timing of realized gains or losses from sales can have a material effect on results in any given period. However, such gains or losses usually have little, if any, effect on total shareholders equity because most equity and fixed maturity investments are carried at fair value, with the unrealized gain or loss included as a component of other comprehensive income. Realized Investment Gains and Losses As appropriate, we buy, hold or sell both fixed maturity and equity securities on an ongoing basis to help achieve our portfolio objectives. Pretax realized investment gains in the past three years largely were due to the sale of equity holdings. Net realized investment gains and losses totaling $128 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, reflected: &middot;$111 million in net realized gains from equity sales. &middot;$11 million in gains from fixed maturity sales and calls. The $185 million net realized investment gains and losses in 2010 were primarily due to a $128 million gain from the sale of Verisk Analytics Inc. (NYSE: VRSK). In 2009, most of the $440 million net realized investment gains and losses were due to $624 million in gains from sales of common stock holdings, primarily from five issuers that included the energy, healthcare and financial sectors. Realized losses of $162 million from the sale of several equity securities partially offset realized investment gains. We generally purchase fixed income securities with the intention to hold until maturity. Securities that no longer meet our investment criteria, usually due to a change in credit fundamentals, are divested. Change in the Valuation of Securities with Embedded Derivatives We have a small portfolio of convertible preferred stocks and bonds that have an embedded derivative component. In 2011, we recorded $1 million in fair value realized losses compared with fair value realized gains of $10 million in 2010 and $27 million in 2009. These changes in fair value were due to the application of ASC 815 15 25, which allows us to account for the entire hybrid financial instrument at fair value, with changes recognized in realized investment gains and losses. The changes in fair values are recognized in net income in the period they occur. See the discussion of Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedging Activities in Item 8, Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 114, for details on the accounting for convertible security embedded options. Other than temporary Impairment Charges In 2011, we recorded $57 million in write downs for 12 securities that we deemed had experienced an other than temporary decline in fair value compared with $36 million for 15 securities in 2010 and $131 million for 50 securities in 2009. The factors we consider when evaluating impairments are discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 46. The OTTI charges in 2011, 2010 and 2009 were each 1 percent or less of our investment portfolio at year end. OTTI charges also include unrealized losses of holdings that we intend to sell but have not yet completed a transaction. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 82 OTTI charges from the investment portfolio by the asset class we described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 20, are summarized below: Years ended December 31, (Dollars in millions) 2011 2010 2009 Taxable fixed maturities: Impairment amount $(4) $(1) $(61) New amortized cost $6 $9 $81 Percent to total amortized cost owned 0% 0% 2% Number of securities other than temporarily impaired 6 5 37 Percent to number of securities owned 0% 0% 3% Tax exempt fixed maturities: Impairment amount $(1) $(2) $(1) New amortized cost $9 $5 $3 Percent to total amortized cost owned 0% 0% 0% Number of securities other than temporarily impaired 3 4 2 Percent to number of securities owned 0% 0% 0% Common equities: Impairment amount $(52) $(33) $(59) New cost $56 $120 $48 Percent to total cost owned 3% 5% 2% Number of securities other than temporarily impaired 3 4 8 Percent to number of securities owned 4% 6% 16% Preferred equities: Impairment amount $0 $0 $(10) New cost $0 $0 $5 Percent to total cost owned 0% 0% 7% Number of securities other than temporarily impaired 0 2 3 Percent to number of securities owned 0% 8% 12% Total: Impairment amount $(57) $(36) $(131) New cost or amortized cost $71 $134 $137 Percent to total cost or amortized cost owned 1% 1% 1% Number of securities other than temporarily impaired 12 15 50 Percent to number of securities owned 1% 1% 2% OTTI charges from the investment portfolio by industry are summarized as follows: Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 Fixed maturities: Financial $(1) $0 $(30) Services cyclical (1) 0 (14) Real estate 0 (1) (11) Consumer cyclical (1) 0 (5) Other (2) (2) (2) Total fixed maturities (5) (3) (62) Common equities: Industrials 0 0 (35) Consumer discretionary 0 0 (10) Material 0 0 (8) Health (2) (21) (6) Financial (50) 0 0 Information technology 0 (12) 0 Total common equities (52) (33) (59) Preferred equities: Financial 0 0 (10) Total preferred equities 0 0 (10) Total $(57) $(36) $(131) Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 83 Investments Outlook The general market view is that, in light of Federal Reserve commentary, interest rates are likely to remain well below historic averages for at least the next two to three years. This will continue to apply pressure on investment income. We continue to focus on portfolio strategies to balance near term income generation and long term book value growth. In 2012, we expect to continue to allocate a portion of cash available for investment to equity securities, taking into consideration corporate liquidity and income requirements, as well as insurance department regulations and rating agency comments. We discuss our portfolio strategies in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 20. We believe that a weak or prolonged recovery from current economic conditions could heighten the risk of renewed pressure on securities markets, which could lead to additional OTTI charges. Our asset impairment committee continues to monitor the investment portfolio. The current asset impairment policy is described in Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 46. Other Revenues in 2011 for our Other businesses matched 2010. Other includes non investment operations of the parent company and its subsidiary, CFC Investment Company, and former subsidiary CinFin Capital Management Company. Losses before income taxes for Other were largely driven by interest expense from debt of the parent company. Years ended December 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 Change % Change % Interest and fees on loans and leases $7 $7 $7 0 0 Other revenues 1 1 2 0 (50) Total revenues 8 8 9 0 (11) Interest expense 54 54 55 0 (2) Operating expenses 13 11 14 18 (21) Total expenses 67 65 69 3 (6) Other loss $(59) $(57) $(60) (4) 5 Taxes We had $10 million of federal income tax expense in 2011 compared with $124 million in 2010 and $150 million in 2009. Our corporate effective tax rate for 2011 was 5.7 percent compared with 24.8 percent in 2010 and 25.7 percent in 2009. The change in our effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in pretax income from underwriting results, changes in investment income and the amount of realized investment gains and losses. Changes to tax exempt interest and the dividend received deduction in the current year compared with prior years also contributed to the change. Historically, we have pursued a strategy of investing some portion of cash flow in tax advantaged fixed maturity and equity securities to minimize our overall tax liability and maximize after tax earnings. See Item 1, Tax Exempt Fixed Maturities, Page 21 for further discussion on municipal bond purchases in our fixed maturity investment portfolio. For our insurance subsidiaries, approximately 85 percent of income from tax advantaged fixed maturity investments is exempt from federal tax. Our non insurance companies own an immaterial amount of tax advantaged fixed maturity investments. For our insurance subsidiaries, the dividend received deduction, after the dividend proration of the 1986 Tax Reform Act, exempts approximately 60 percent of dividends from qualified equities from federal tax. For our non insurance subsidiaries, the dividend received deduction exempts 70 percent of dividends from qualified equities. Details about our effective tax rate are found on Note 11, Income Taxes, Page 29. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 84 Liquidity and Capital Resources We seek to maintain prudent levels of liquidity and financial strength for the protection of our policyholders, creditors and shareholders. We manage liquidity at two levels to meet the short and long term cash requirements of business obligations and growth needs. The first is the liquidity of the parent company. The second is the liquidity of our insurance subsidiary. The management of liquidity at both levels is essential because each has different funding needs and sources, and each is subject to certain regulatory guidelines and requirements. Parent Company Liquidity The parent companys primary means of meeting liquidity requirements are dividends from our insurance subsidiary, investment income and sale proceeds from investments held at the parent company level. The parent companys primary contractual obligations are interest and principal payments on long and short term debt as described under Contractual Obligations, Page 87. Other uses of parent company cash include dividends to shareholders, common stock repurchases and general operating expenses described under Other Commitments, Page 88. As of December 31, 2011, the parent company had $1.051 billion in cash and marketable securities, providing strong liquidity to fund uses of cash. The table below shows a summary, by the direct method, of the major sources and uses of liquidity by the parent company. Dividends received from subsidiaries in 2011 were $100 million less than 2010 due to higher catastrophe losses that reduced net cash provided by operating activities. No dividends were received from our insurance subsidiary in 2009, in order to maintain strong statutory surplus and financial strength ratings. We expect sources of liquidity to increase in 2012 and beyond, primarily from improved profitability from our property casualty operations, assuming a more normal level of catastrophe losses. The majority of expenditures for the parent company have been consistent during the last three years, and we expect future expenditures to remain fairly stable. Share repurchases are discretionary, depending on cash availability and capital management decisions. Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 Sources of liquidity: Insurance subsidiary dividends received $170 $270 $0 Short term debt 55 0 0 Investment income received 41 41 41 Uses of liquidity: Debt interest payments $53 $52 $52 Pension payments 35 25 34 Shareholders dividend payments 255 252 249 Purchase of treasury shares 32 10 (1) Insurance Subsidiary Liquidity Our insurance subsidiarys primary means of meeting liquidity requirements are collection of premiums, investment income, and sale proceeds from investments held at the subsidiary level. Property casualty insurance premiums generally are received before losses are paid under the policies purchased with those premiums. Our insurance subsidiarys expenditures are property casualty loss and loss expenses, commissions, salaries and other ongoing operating expenses. Over the past three years, premium receipts and investment income have been more than sufficient to pay claims and operating expenses. Excess cash flow was partially used to pay dividends to the parent company. We are not aware of any known trends that would materially change historical cash flow results over the next 12 months, other than fluctuations in catastrophe claims. We discuss the factors that affected insurance operations in Commercial Lines and Personal Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 57 and Page 69. The table below shows a summary of operating cash flow for property casualty insurance (direct method). Lower operating cash flow for 2011 reflected the unusually high level of catastrophe losses. Years ended December 31, (In millions) 2011 2010 2009 Premiums collected $3,080 $2,971 $2,957 Loss and loss expenses paid (2,241) (1,858) (1,910) Commissions and other underwriting expenses paid (1,005) (954) (951) Insurance subsidiary cash flow from underwriting (166) 159 96 Investment income received 357 350 317 Insurance operating cash flow $191 $509 $413 Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 85 Additional Sources of Liquidity Investment income is a primary source of liquidity for both the parent company and our insurance subsidiary operations. For both, cash in excess of operating requirements and dividends is invested in fixed maturity and equity securities. Equity securities provide the potential for future increases in dividend income and for capital appreciation. In Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 20, we discuss our investment strategy, portfolio allocation and quality. Cash generated from investment income is the most important investment contribution to cash flow. While we have never sold investments to make claim payments, the sale of investments could provide an additional source of liquidity at either the parent company or insurance subsidiary level, if required. However, we follow a buy and hold investment philosophy, seeking to compound cash flows over the long term. In addition to possible sales of investments, proceeds of call or maturities of fixed maturities also can provide liquidity. During the next five years, $3.324 billion, or 37.9 percent, of our fixed maturity portfolio will mature. At year end 2011, total unrealized gains in the investment portfolio, before deferred income taxes, were $1.489 billion. Liquidity sourced from our investment portfolio is not materially at risk from European based securities, as our total exposure to such securities at the end of 2011 was $424 million on a fair value basis, or 3.6 percent of our total invested assets. We own no European sovereign debt. Our European based securities are summarized by country in Item 7A, Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures About Market Risk, Page 102. Further, financial resources of the parent company also could be made available to our insurance subsidiaries, if circumstances required. This flexibility would include our ability to access the capital markets and short term bank borrowings. Our debt totaled $894 million at year end 2011, consisting of $790 million of long term debt and $104 million in borrowings on our short term lines of credit. We generally have minimized our reliance on debt financing although we may use lines of credit to fund short term cash needs. Long Term Debt We provide details of our three long term notes in Item 8, Note 8 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 127. None of the notes are encumbered by rating triggers: &middot;$391 million aggregate principal amount of 6.92% senior debentures due 2028. &middot;$28 million aggregate principal amount of 6.9% senior debentures due 2028. &middot;$374 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior debentures due 2034. The companys senior debt is rated investment grade by independent rating firms. On December 23, 2011, A.M. Best lowered its debt rating for our senior debt from a to a . Three other rating agencies made no changes to our debt ratings in 2011. Our debt ratings from the other rating agencies are: BBB+ from Fitch Ratings, A3 from Moodys Investors Service and BBB from Standard & Poors Ratings Services. Short Term Debt At December 31, 2011, we had two lines of credit with commercial banks totaling $225 million, with $104 million borrowed. During the third quarter of 2011, there was a $55 million increase to the previous balance of $49 million in short term debt by the parent company, primarily to fund share repurchases using our relatively low cost source of borrowing. There was no change in the amount of the $49 million short term debt during 2010 or 2009. Access to these lines of credit requires compliance with various covenants, including maintaining a minimum consolidated net worth and not exceeding a 20 percent consolidated leverage ratio, as defined by the agreement. As of December 31, 2011, we were well within compliance with all covenants under the credit agreements and believe we will remain in compliance. Our $150 million unsecured revolving line of credit is administered by The Huntington National Bank. It was established in 2007 and will mature in July, 2012. CFC Investment Company also is a borrower under this line of credit. At year end 2011, there was $104 million borrowed on this line of credit. The Huntington National Bank, a subsidiary of Huntington Bancshares Inc. (Nasdaq:HBAN), is the lead participant with a $75 million share. U.S. Bancorp (NYSE:USB), Bank of America Corporation (NYSE:BAC) and Northern Trust Corporation (Nasdaq:NTRS) also participate, each providing $25 million of capacity. This line of credit includes a swing line sub facility for same day borrowing in the amount of $35 million. The credit agreement provides alternative interest charges based on the type of borrowing and our debt rating. The interest rate charged is adjusted LIBOR plus the applicable margin. Based on our debt ratings at year end 2011, interest for Eurodollar rate advances is adjusted LIBOR plus 33 basis points, and for floating rate advances is adjusted LIBOR. Utilization and commitment fees based on Cincinnati Financial Corporations year end 2011 debt ratings are 5 basis points and 8 basis points, respectively. Our $75 million unsecured line of credit with PNC Bank, N.A. was renewed effective August 29, 2011, for a one year term to expire on August 27, 2012. CFC Investment Company also is a borrower under this line of credit. PNC Bank is a subsidiary of The PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (NYSE:PNC). Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 86 We anticipate renewing our lines of credit in 2012 with terms and conditions similar to the expiring agreements. Should available terms and conditions be unacceptable to us, we could repay our short term debt with the $1.051 billion in cash and marketable securities held by the parent company at year end 2011, without a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Capital Resources Capital resources represent our overall financial strength to support writing and growing our insurance businesses. At December 31, 2011, we had total shareholders equity of $5.055 billion, an increase of $23 million, or less than 1 percent, from the prior year. Our total debt was $894 million, up $55 million, from a year ago. We seek to maintain a solid financial position and provide capital flexibility by keeping our ratio of debt to total capital moderate. We target a ratio below 20 percent. At year end 2011, the ratio was 15.0 percent compared with 14.3 percent at year end 2010. The increase in the debt to total capital ratio was due to the $55 million increase in debt during the year 2011. At the discretion of the board of directors, the company can return cash directly to shareholders: &middot;Dividends to shareholders &ndash;The ability of the company to continue paying cash dividends is subject to factors the board of directors deem relevant. While the board and management believe there is merit to sustaining the companys record of dividend increases, our first priority is the companys financial strength. Over the past 10 years, the company has paid an average of approximately 56 percent of net income as dividends. Through 2011, the board had increased our cash dividend for 51 consecutive years. The board decision in August 2011 to increase the dividend demonstrated confidence in the companys strong capital, liquidity, financial flexibility and initiatives to improve earnings performance. &middot;Common stock repurchase &ndash; Generally, our board believes that share repurchases can help fulfill our commitment to enhancing shareholder value. Consequently, the board has authorized the repurchase of outstanding shares, giving management discretion to purchase shares at reasonable prices in light of circumstances at the time of purchase. Our approach since mid 2008 was to preserve capital and repurchase a minimal amount of shares. Those repurchases were intended to partially offset the issuance of shares through equity compensation plans, primarily due to vesting of service based restricted stock units of equity awards granted in the past. In August 2011, repurchases occurred because we believed our stock price was attractive, compared with book value, for such repurchases. Our corporate Code of Conduct restricts repurchases during certain time periods. The details of the repurchase authorizations and activity are described in Item 5, Market for the Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, Page 34. Obligations We pay obligations to customers, suppliers and associates in the normal course of our business operations. Some are contractual obligations that define the amount, circumstances and or timing of payments. We have other commitments for business expenditures; however, the amount, circumstances and or timing of our other commitments are not dictated by contractual arrangements. Contractual Obligations As of December 31, 2011, we estimate our future contractual obligations as follows: (In millions) Year Years Years There Payment due by period 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 after Total Gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments $1,647 $1,183 $544 $906 $4,280 Gross life policyholder obligations 74 156 168 3,766 4,164 Interest on long term debt 52 104 104 734 994 Long term debt 793 793 Short term debt 104 104 Profit sharing commissions 68 68 Operating property 3 4 7 Capital lease obligations 14 16 2 32 Computer hardware and software 16 20 9 45 Other invested assets 4 3 7 Total $1,982 $1,486 $827 $6,199 $10,494 Our two most significant contractual obligations are discussed in conjunction with related insurance reserves in Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments and Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations beginning on Pages 89 and 97, respectively. Other future contractual obligations include: &middot;Interest on long and short term debt &ndash; We expect total interest expense to be approximately $52 million in 2012. We discuss outstanding debt in Additional Sources of Liquidity, Page 86. &middot;Property casualty profit sharing commissions &ndash; Profit sharing commissions are paid to agencies using a formula that takes into account agency profitability and premium volume. We estimate 2012 profit sharing commission payments of approximately $68 million. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 87 &middot;Computer hardware and software &ndash; We expect to spend $36 million over the next three years for current material commitments for computer hardware and software, including maintenance contracts on hardware and other known obligations. We discuss below the non contractual expenses we anticipate for computer hardware and software in 2012. Other Commitments At December 31, 2011, we believe our most significant other commitments are: &middot;Qualified pension plan &ndash; In 2012, we plan to make a voluntary cash contribution of $14 million to our qualified pension plan. We currently estimate an $18 million net pension expense and an $8 million expense for company 401(k) contributions in 2012. &middot;Commissions &ndash; We expect commission payments to generally track with written premiums. &middot;Other operating expenses &ndash; Many of our operating expenses are not contractual obligations but reflect the ongoing expenses of our business. In addition to contractual obligations for hardware and software discussed above, we anticipate capitalizing approximately $4 million in spending for key technology initiatives in 2012. Capitalized development costs related to key technology initiatives totaled $5 million in 2011, $7 million in 2010 and $28 million in 2009. These activities are conducted at our discretion, and we have no material contractual obligations for activities planned as part of these projects. Liquidity and Capital Resources Outlook A long term perspective governs our liquidity and capital resources decisions, with the goal of benefiting our policyholders, agents, shareholders and associates over time. While our insurance results for 2011 and 2010 did not meet our combined ratio objective of being consistently below 100 percent, our improved capital position since year end 2009 provided adequate financial cushion. We have taken the necessary steps to protect our capital and are confident in our strategies to return our insurance operations to growth and profitability. At December 31, 2011, we had $438 million in cash and cash equivalents. That strong liquidity and our consistent cash flows gives us the flexibility to meet current obligations and commitments while building value by prudently investing where we see potential for both current income and long term return. In any year, we consider the most likely source of pressure on liquidity would be an unusually high level of catastrophe loss payments within a short period of time, which is what occurred in the second quarter of 2011. We responded with a reduced dividend to our parent company in 2011, compared with 2010. There could also be additional obligations for our insurance operations due to increasing severity or frequency of non catastrophe claims. To address the risk of unusual insurance loss obligations including catastrophe events, we maintain property casualty reinsurance contracts with highly rated reinsurers, as discussed under 2012 Reinsurance Programs, Page 98. We also monitor the financial condition of our reinsurers because insolvency could place in jeopardy a portion of our $622 million in outstanding reinsurance receivables at December 31, 2011. We do not expect future pension contributions to constrain our liquidity. The fair value of plan assets is 92 percent of the accumulated benefit obligation at December 31, 2011. Continued economic weakness also has the potential to affect our liquidity and capital resources in a number of different ways, potentially including: delinquent payments from agencies, defaults on interest payments by fixed maturity holdings in our portfolio, dividend reductions by holdings in our equity portfolio or declines in the market value of holdings in our portfolio. Further, parent company liquidity could be constrained by Ohio regulatory requirements that restrict the dividends insurance subsidiaries can pay. During 2012, total dividends that our insurance subsidiary can pay to our parent company without regulatory approval are approximately $375 million. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not use any special purpose financing vehicles or have any undisclosed off balance sheet arrangements (as that term is defined in applicable SEC rules) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on the companys financial condition, results of operation, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Similarly, the company holds no fair value contracts for which a lack of marketplace quotations would necessitate the use of fair value techniques. Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves For the business lines in the commercial and personal lines insurance segments, and in total for the excess and surplus lines segment, the following table details gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves, net of salvage and subrogation reserves. Reserving practices are discussed in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 42. The rise in total gross reserves was primarily due to higher case and IBNR reserves for our commercial property, specialty packages and homeowner lines of business. Catastrophe and non catastrophe weather losses accounted for most of the increase. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 88 Loss reserves Loss Total Case IBNR expense gross Percent (In millions) reserves reserves reserves reserves of total At December 31, 2011 Commercial lines insurance Commercial casualty $875 $365 $535 $1,775 41.5% Commercial property 190 35 36 261 6.1 Commercial auto 260 30 62 352 8.2 Workers compensation 467 464 108 1,039 24.3 Specialty packages 100 9 32 141 3.3 Surety and executive risk 126 5 77 208 4.9 Machinery and equipment 1 3 1 5 0.1 Subtotal 2,019 911 851 3,781 88.4 Personal lines insurance Personal auto 129 (3) 52 178 4.2 Homeowner 76 39 27 142 3.3 Other personal 41 52 5 98 2.3 Subtotal 246 88 84 418 9.8 Excess and surplus lines 43 18 20 81 1.8 Total $2,308 $1,017 $955 $4,280 100.0% At December 31, 2010 Commercial lines insurance Commercial casualty $966 $321 $533 $1,820 44.0% Commercial property 130 13 32 175 4.2 Commercial auto 258 41 60 359 8.7 Workers compensation 476 465 147 1,088 26.3 Specialty packages 80 2 10 92 2.2 Surety and executive risk 130 2 57 189 4.6 Machinery and equipment 1 3 1 5 0.1 Subtotal 2,041 847 840 3,728 90.1 Personal lines insurance Personal auto 126 (1) 28 153 3.7 Homeowner 73 21 17 111 2.7 Other personal 37 43 9 89 2.1 Subtotal 236 63 54 353 8.5 Excess and surplus lines 29 10 17 56 1.4 Total $2,306 $920 $911 $4,137 100.0% Asbestos and Environmental Reserves We carried $136 million of net loss and loss expense reserves for asbestos and environmental claims as of year end 2011, compared with $134 million for such claims as of year end 2010. These amounts constitute 3.5 percent and 3.5 percent of total loss and loss expense reserves as of these year end dates. We believe our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims is limited, largely because our reinsurance retention was $500,000 or below prior to 1987. We also were predominantly a personal lines company in the 1960s and 1970s, when asbestos and pollution exclusions were not widely used by commercial lines insurers. During the 1980s and early 1990s, commercial lines grew as a percentage of our overall business and our exposure to asbestos and environmental claims grew accordingly. Over that period, we endorsed to or included in most policies an asbestos and environmental exclusion. Additionally, since 2002, we have revised policy terms where permitted by state regulation to limit our exposure to mold claims prospectively and further reduce our exposure to other environmental claims generally. Finally, we have not engaged in any mergers or acquisitions through which such a liability could have been assumed. We continue to monitor our claims for evidence of material exposure to other mass tort classes such as silicosis, but we have found no such credible evidence to date. Reserving data for asbestos and environmental claims has characteristics that limit the usefulness of the methods and models used to analyze loss and loss expense reserves for other claims. Specifically, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expenses for different accident years do not emerge independently of one another as loss development and Bornhuetter Ferguson methods assume. In addition, asbestos and environmental loss and loss expense data available to date does not reflect a well defined tail, greatly complicating the identification of an appropriate probabilistic trend family model. Due to these considerations, our actuarial staff elected to use a paid survival ratio method to estimate reserves for incurred but not yet reported asbestos and environmental claims. Although highly uncertain, reserve estimates obtained via this method have developed in a reasonably stable fashion since 2004. Since our exposure to such claims is limited, we believe the paid survival ratio method is sufficient. Gross Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Payments Our estimate of future gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments of $4.280 billion is lower than loss and loss expense reserves of $4.339 billion reported on our balance sheet at December 31, 2011. The $59 million difference is due to life and health loss reserves, as discussed in Item 8, Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 125. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 89 While we believe that historical performance of property casualty and life loss payment patterns is a reasonable source for projecting future claim payments, there is inherent uncertainty in this estimate of contractual obligations. We believe that we could meet our obligations under a significant and unexpected change in the timing of these payments because of the liquidity of our invested assets, strong financial position and access to lines of credit. Our estimates of gross property casualty loss and loss expense payments do not include reinsurance receivables or ceded losses. As discussed in 2012 Reinsurance Programs, Page 98, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our property casualty risk exposure. Ceded property casualty reinsurance unpaid receivables of $375 million at year end 2011 are an offset to our gross property casualty loss and loss expense obligations. Our reinsurance program mitigates the liquidity risk of a single large loss or an unexpected rise in claim severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover losses under our reinsurance agreements depends on the financial viability of the reinsurers. We direct our associates and agencies to settle claims and pay losses as quickly as is practical and we made $2.241 billion of net claim payments during 2011. At year end 2011, total net property casualty reserves of $3.905 billion reflected $2.056 billion in unpaid amounts on reported claims (case reserves), $920 million in loss expense reserves and $929 million in estimates of claims that were incurred but had not yet been reported (IBNR). The specific amounts and timing of obligations related to case reserves and associated loss expenses are not set contractually. The amounts and timing of obligations for IBNR claims and related loss expenses are unknown. We discuss our methods of establishing loss and loss expense reserves and our belief that reserves are adequate in Critical Accounting Estimates, Property Casualty Insurance Loss and Loss Expense Reserves, Page 42. The historical pattern of using premium receipts for the payment of loss and loss expenses has enabled us to extend slightly the maturities of our investment portfolio beyond the estimated settlement date of the loss reserves. The effective duration of our consolidated property casualty fixed maturity portfolio was 4.3 years at year end 2011. By contrast, the duration of our loss and loss expense reserves was approximately 4.25 years. We believe this difference in duration does not affect our ability to meet current obligations because cash flow from operations is sufficient to meet these obligations. In addition, investment holdings could be sold, if necessary, to meet higher than anticipated loss and loss expenses. Range of Reasonable Reserves The company established a reasonably likely range for net loss and loss expense reserves of $3.677 billion to $4.056 billion at year end 2011, with the company carrying net reserves of $3.905 billion. The likely range was $3.571 billion to $3.952 billion at year end 2010, with the company carrying net reserves of $3.811 billion. Our loss and loss expense reserves are not discounted for the time value of money, but we have reduced the reserves by an estimate of the amount of salvage and subrogation payments we expect to recover. We provide a reconciliation of the property casualty reserves with the loss and loss expense reserve as shown on the balance sheet in Item 8, Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 125. The low point of each years range corresponds to approximately one standard error below each years mean reserve estimate, while the high point corresponds to approximately one standard error above each years mean reserve estimate. We discussed managements reasons for basing reasonably likely reserve ranges on standard errors in Critical Accounting Estimates, Reserve Estimate Variability, Page 45. The ranges reflect our assessment of the most likely unpaid loss and loss expenses at year end 2011 and 2010. However, actual unpaid loss and loss expenses could nonetheless fall outside of the indicated ranges. Managements best estimate of total loss and loss expense reserves as of year end 2011 was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate. Managements best estimate of total loss and loss expense reserves as of year end 2010 also was consistent with the corresponding actuarial best estimate. Development of Reserves for Loss and Loss Expenses We reconcile the beginning and ending balances of our reserves for loss and loss expenses at December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, in Item 8, Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, Page 125. The reconciliation of our year end 2010 reserve balance to net incurred losses one year later recognizes approximately $285 million of favorable reserve development. The table on the following page shows the development of estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses for the past 10 years. &middot;Section A shows our total property casualty loss and loss expense reserves recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated calendar years on a gross and net basis. Those reserves represent the estimated amount of unpaid loss and loss expenses for claims arising in the indicated calendar year and all prior accident years at the balance sheet date, including losses that were incurred but not yet reported to the company. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 90 &middot;Section B shows the cumulative net amount paid with respect to the previously recorded reserve as of the end of each succeeding year. For example, as of December 31, 2011, we had paid $1.910 billion of loss and loss expenses in calendar years 2002 through 2011 for losses that occurred in accident years 2001 and prior. An estimated $259 million of losses remained unpaid as of year end 2011 (net re estimated reserves of $2.169 billion from Section C less cumulative net paid loss and loss expenses of $1.910 billion). &middot;Section C shows the re estimated amount of the previously reported reserves based on experience as of the end of each succeeding year. The estimate is increased or decreased as we learn more about the development of the related claims. &middot;Section D, cumulative net reserve development, represents the aggregate change in the estimates for all years subsequent to the year the reserves were initially established. For example, reserves established at December 31, 2001, had developed favorably by $183 million over 10 years, net of reinsurance, which was reflected in income over the 10 years. The table shows favorable reserve development as a negative number. Favorable reserve development on prior accident years, which represents a negative expense, is favorable to income. The One year later line in the table shows the effects on income before income taxes in 2011, 2010 and 2009 of changes in estimates of the reserves for loss and loss expenses for all accident years. The effect was favorable to pretax income for those three years by $285 million, $304 million, and $188 million, respectively. In evaluating the development of our estimated reserves for loss and loss expenses for the past 10 years, note that each amount includes the effects of all changes in amounts for prior periods. For example, payments or reserve adjustments related to losses settled in 2011 but incurred in 2005 are included in the cumulative deficiency or redundancy amount for 2005 and each subsequent year. In addition, this table presents calendar year data, not accident or policy year development data, which readers may be more accustomed to analyzing. Conditions and trends that affected development of reserves in the past may not necessarily occur in the future. Accordingly, it may not be appropriate to extrapolate future reserve development based on this data. Differences between the property casualty reserves reported in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets (prepared in accordance with GAAP) and those same reserves reported in the annual statements (filed with state insurance departments in accordance with statutory accounting practices &ndash; SAP), relate principally to the reporting of reinsurance recoverables, which are recognized as receivables for GAAP and as an offset to reserves for SAP. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 91 Development of Estimated Reserves for Loss and Loss Expenses Calendar year ended December 31, (In millions) 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 A. Originally reported reserves for unpaid loss and loss expenses: Gross of reinsurance $2,865 $3,150 $3,386 $3,514 $3,629 $3,860 $3,925 $4,040 $4,096 $4,137 $4,280 Reinsurance recoverable 513 542 541 537 518 504 528 542 435 326 375 Net of reinsurance $2,352 $2,608 $2,845 $2,977 $3,111 $3,356 $3,397 $3,498 $3,661 $3,811 $3,905 B. Cumulative net paid as of: One year later $758 $799 $817 $907 $944 $1,006 $979 $994 $926 $1,035 Two years later 1,194 1,235 1,293 1,426 1,502 1,547 1,523 1,529 1,511 Three years later 1,455 1,519 1,626 1,758 1,845 1,896 1,857 1,912 Four years later 1,614 1,716 1,823 1,963 2,059 2,096 2,102 Five years later 1,717 1,823 1,945 2,096 2,176 2,247 Six years later 1,778 1,889 2,031 2,163 2,282 Seven years later 1,819 1,940 2,077 2,238 Eight years later 1,855 1,973 2,132 Nine years later 1,879 2,015 Ten years later 1,910 C. Net reserves re estimated as of: One year later $2,307 $2,528 $2,649 $2,817 $2,995 $3,112 $3,074 $3,310 $3,357 $3,526 Two years later 2,263 2,377 2,546 2,743 2,871 2,893 3,042 3,197 3,251 Three years later 2,178 2,336 2,489 2,657 2,724 2,898 3,005 3,124 Four years later 2,153 2,299 2,452 2,578 2,776 2,907 2,957 Five years later 2,127 2,276 2,414 2,645 2,788 2,900 Six years later 2,122 2,259 2,469 2,662 2,790 Seven years later 2,111 2,298 2,491 2,665 Eight years later 2,147 2,318 2,496 Nine years later 2,165 2,323 Ten years later 2,169 D. Cumulative net redundancy as of: One year later $(45) $(80) $(196) $(160) $(116) $(244) $(323) $(188) $(304) $(285) Two years later (89) (231) (299) (234) (240) (463) (355) (301) (410) Three years later (174) (272) (356) (320) (387) (458) (392) (374) Four years later (199) (309) (393) (399) (335) (449) (440) Five years later (225) (332) (431) (332) (323) (456) Six years later (230) (349) (376) (315) (321) Seven years later (241) (310) (354) (312) Eight years later (205) (290) (349) Nine years later (187) (285) Ten years later (183) Net reserves re estimated&mdash;latest $2,169 $2,323 $2,496 $2,665 $2,790 $2,900 $2,957 $3,124 $3,251 $3,526 Re estimated recoverable&mdash;latest 481 513 492 511 477 467 448 477 376 304 Gross liability re estimated&mdash;latest $2,650 $2,836 $2,988 $3,176 $3,267 $3,367 $3,405 $3,601 $3,627 $3,830 Cumulative gross redundancy $(215) $(314) $(398) $(338) $(362) $(493) $(520) $(439) $(469) $(307) Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 92 Commercial Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year The following table shows net reserve changes at year end 2011, 2010 and 2009 by commercial line of business and accident year: Commercial Commercial Commercial Workers Specialty Surety & Machinery & (In millions) casualty property auto compensation packages exec risk equipment Totals As of December 31, 2011 2010 accident year $(117) $(9) $(14) $(32) $2 $21 $1 $(148) 2009 accident year 12 (5) (6) (18) 1 (1) 0 (17) 2008 accident year (16) (4) (4) (10) 0 11 0 (23) 2007 accident year (23) 0 (3) (10) (2) 2 0 (36) 2006 accident year (2) 1 0 (7) 0 0 0 (8) 2005 accident year 1 (1) 0 (4) 1 0 0 (3) 2004 and prior accident years 13 0 0 (16) 3 1 0 1 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(132) $(18) $(27) $(97) $5 $34 $1 $(234) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2010 $1,644 $156 $355 $1,010 $91 $152 $5 $3,413 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2011 1,512 138 328 913 96 186 6 3,179 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(132) $(18) $(27) $(97) $5 $34 $1 $(234) As of December 31, 2010 2009 accident year $(105) $(8) $(22) $(54) $0 $14 $(1) $(176) 2008 accident year (51) 0 (9) 5 0 (6) (1) (62) 2007 accident year (33) (1) (5) (1) (2) (1) 0 (43) 2006 accident year (5) 0 3 5 0 (3) 0 0 2005 accident year 0 (1) (1) (5) (1) (1) 0 (9) 2004 accident year (4) 0 1 0 1 0 0 (2) 2003 and prior accident years 12 0 0 11 0 0 0 23 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(186) $(10) $(33) $(39) $(2) $3 $(2) $(269) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2009 $1,605 $115 $374 $975 $81 $153 $5 $3,308 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2010 1,419 105 341 936 79 156 3 3,039 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(186) $(10) $(33) $(39) $(2) $3 $(2) $(269) As of December 31, 2009 2008 accident year $(89) $(15) $(13) $(11) $(4) $(2) $0 $(134) 2007 accident year (36) 0 (5) 5 2 9 (1) (26) 2006 accident year (33) 4 (4) 2 0 (3) (1) (35) 2005 accident year (17) (1) 1 6 2 (5) 0 (14) 2004 accident year 3 (2) 0 6 1 0 0 8 2003 accident year 9 (1) 1 6 0 0 0 15 2002 and prior accident years 9 (1) 0 34 (1) (2) 0 39 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(154) $(16) $(20) $48 $0 $(3) $(2) $(147) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2008 $1,559 $136 $385 $842 $82 $130 $7 $3,141 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2009 1,405 120 365 890 82 127 5 2,994 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(154) $(16) $(20) $48 $0 $(3) $(2) $(147) Overall favorable development for commercial lines reserves of $234 million in 2011 illustrated the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves, especially for long tail lines such as commercial casualty and workers compensation. Favorable reserve development of $132 million for the commercial casualty line accounted for approximately 55 percent of the segment total in 2011, while favorable reserve development of $97 million for the workers compensation line accounted for approximately 40 percent of the segment total in 2011. Drivers of significant reserve development are discussed below. &middot;Moderation in commercial casualty trend selections &ndash; We saw moderating loss cost trends continue in several commercial casualty coverages, most notably for umbrella liability coverage. A number of factors seem to have played a role, including a slow economic recovery, favorable court decisions, policy form restrictions, and claims department initiatives. Accordingly, it is not entirely clear whether these moderating loss cost trends will persist, and our actuaries have responded cautiously to these changes, electing to recognize improvements in trends used for estimating reserves in a progressive, incremental fashion. &middot;Commercial casualty loss emergence &ndash; As in 2010, commercial multiple peril liability coverages contributed to favorable reserve development. Actual reported losses in calendar year 2011 fell short of the amount projected at year end 2010 by more than $40 million. &middot;Commercial auto loss emergence &ndash; Similar to commercial casualty, commercial auto liability contributed to favorable development because both paid and reported loss emergence during calendar year 2011 was substantially less than expected. As of December 31, 2010 we expected reported loss emergence in the next 12 calendar months to be approximately $21 million; actual emergence was $17 million. Paid loss emergence was approximately 16 percent lower than expected at the prior year end. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 93 &middot;Workers compensation trends and initiatives &ndash; Favorable calendar year development was $97 million. Accident year 2010 contributed $32 million in favorable development. Accident year 2009 contributed $18 million in favorable development with all other prior years accounting for the balance. The trend for payments to be made in future calendar years is down slightly, likely due to the claims initiatives that began in 2010. Initiatives to improve profitability for our workers compensation line of business are discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Commercial Lines of Business Analysis, Page 62. &middot;Surety and executive risk unfavorable development &ndash; Reserve development on prior accident years recorded during 2011 for accident year 2010 was primarily due to the refined line of business allocation process for loss expenses discussed in Commercial Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Commercial Lines of Business Analysis, Page 62. Unfavorable development recorded for accident year 2008 was mostly due to adverse loss emergence on a few large claims related to coverage provided to financial institutions. As noted in Critical Accounting Estimates, Key Assumptions Loss Reserving, Page 44, our models predict that actual loss and loss expense emergence will differ from projections, and we do not attempt to monitor or identify such normal variations. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 94 Personal Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year The following table shows net reserve changes at year end 2011, 2010 and 2009 by personal line of business and accident year: Personal Other (In millions) auto Homeowner personal Totals As of December 31, 2011 2010 accident year $(2) $(15) $(9) $(26) 2009 accident year (2) (6) (2) (10) 2008 accident year 0 1 (2) (1) 2007 accident year (1) 0 (2) (3) 2006 accident year 0 0 (2) (2) 2005 accident year 0 0 (1) (1) 2004 and prior accident years 1 0 0 1 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(4) $(20) $(18) $(42) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2010 $154 $105 $84 $343 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2011 150 85 66 301 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(4) $(20) $(18) $(42) As of December 31, 2010 2009 accident year $(2) $(3) $(8) $(13) 2008 accident year (2) (3) (8) (13) 2007 accident year 1 0 (3) (2) 2006 accident year (1) 0 (2) (3) 2005 accident year (1) 0 2 1 2004 accident year (1) 0 (1) (2) 2003 and prior accident years (1) 0 (1) (2) Deficiency/(redundancy) $(7) $(6) $(21) $(34) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2009 $154 $89 $89 $332 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2010 147 83 68 298 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(7) $(6) $(21) $(34) As of December 31, 2009 2008 accident year $(3) $(2) $(17) $(22) 2007 accident year (3) 3 (12) (12) 2006 accident year (1) 0 (10) (11) 2005 accident year 1 0 (1) 0 2004 accident year 0 0 5 5 2003 accident year 0 (1) 2 1 2002 and prior accident years 0 0 (1) (1) Deficiency/(redundancy) $(6) $0 $(34) $(40) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2008 $165 $82 $106 $353 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2009 159 82 72 313 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(6) $0 $(34) $(40) Favorable development for personal lines segment reserves illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. We continued to see favorable reserve development related to umbrella liability coverage in the other personal line of business. Among the factors that appeared to be causing moderating loss cost trends were a slow economic recovery, favorable court decisions, policy form restrictions, and claims department initiatives. In consideration of the datas credibility, we analyze commercial and personal umbrella liability reserves together and then allocate the derived total reserve estimate to the commercial and personal coverages. Consequently, all of the umbrella factors that contributed to commercial lines reserve development also contributed to personal lines reserve development through the other personal line, of which personal umbrella coverages are a part. For our homeowner line of business, the favorable reserve development on prior accident years recorded during 2011 for accident years 2010 and 2009 was primarily due to a reduction in case reserves for losses. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 95 Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Segment Development of Estimated Reserves by Accident Year For the excess and surplus lines insurance segment, the table showing reserves by segment and lines of business in Property Casualty Loss and Loss Expense Obligations and Reserves, Page 88, shows the components of gross reserves among case, IBNR and loss expense reserves. Total gross reserves were up $25 million from year end 2010 primarily due to the increase in premiums and exposures for this segment, as we discussed in Excess and Surplus Lines Insurance Results of Operations, Page 75. Favorable development during 2011 of $9 million for excess and surplus lines insurance segment reserves shown in the table below illustrates the potential for revisions inherent in estimating reserves. During 2011 we began to rely more heavily on development patterns from our own excess and surplus lines business, contributing to the modest decrease in reserves, especially for the defense and cost containment portion of loss expense reserves. The following table shows net reserve changes at year end 2011, 2010 and 2009 by accident year: Excess & (In millions) Surplus Lines As of December 31, 2011 2010 accident year $(4) 2009 accident year (5) 2008 accident year 0 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(9) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2010 $55 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2011 46 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(9) As of December 31, 2010 2009 accident year $(1) 2008 accident year 0 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(1) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2009 $23 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2010 22 Deficiency/(redundancy) $(1) As of December 31, 2009 2008 accident year $(1) Deficiency/(redundancy) $(1) Reserves estimated as of December 31, 2008 $0 Reserves re estimated as of December 31, 2009 (1) Deficiency/(redundancy) $(1) Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 96 Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations and Reserves Gross Life Insurance Policyholder Obligations Our estimates of life, annuity and disability policyholder obligations reflect future estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders for future policy benefits, policyholders account balances and separate account liabilities. These estimates include death and disability income claims, policy surrenders, policy maturities, annuity payments, minimum guarantees on separate account products, commissions and premium taxes offset by expected future deposits and premiums on in force contracts. Our estimates of gross life, annuity and disability obligations do not reflect net recoveries from reinsurance agreements. Ceded life reinsurance receivables were $225 million at year end 2011. As discussed in 2012 Reinsurance Programs, Page 98, we purchase reinsurance to mitigate our life insurance risk exposure. At year end 2011, ceded death benefits represented approximately 45.9 percent of our total policy face amounts in force. These estimated cash outflows are undiscounted with respect to interest. As a result, the sum of the cash outflows for all years of $4.164 billion (total of life insurance obligations) exceeds the liabilities recorded in life policy reserves and separate accounts for future policy benefits and claims of $2.835 billion (total of life insurance policy reserves and separate account policy reserves). Separate account policy reserves make up all but $7 million of separate accounts liabilities. We have made significant assumptions to determine the estimated undiscounted cash flows of these policies and contracts that include mortality, morbidity, future lapse rates and interest crediting rates. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the amounts presented could materially differ from actual results. Life Insurance Reserves Gross life policy reserves were $2.214 billion at year end 2011, compared with $2.034 billion at year end 2010. The increase was primarily due to reserves for deferred annuities. We establish reserves for traditional life insurance policies based on expected expenses, mortality, morbidity, withdrawal rates and investment yields, including a provision for uncertainty. Once these assumptions are established, they generally are maintained throughout the lives of the contracts. We use both our own experience and industry experience adjusted for historical trends in arriving at our assumptions for expected mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rates. We use our own experience and historical trends for setting our assumptions for expected expenses. We base our assumptions for expected investment income on our own experience adjusted for current economic conditions. We establish reserves for our universal life, deferred annuity and investment contracts equal to the cumulative account balances, which include premium deposits plus credited interest less charges and withdrawals. Some of our universal life insurance policies contain no lapse guarantee provisions. For these policies, we establish a reserve in addition to the account balance based on expected no lapse guarantee benefits and expected policy assessments. We regularly review our life insurance business to ensure that any deferred acquisition cost associated with the business is recoverable and that our actuarial liabilities (life insurance segment reserves) make sufficient provision for future benefits and related expenses. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 97 2012 Reinsurance Programs A single large loss or an unexpected rise in claims severity or frequency due to a catastrophic event could present us with a liquidity risk. In an effort to control such losses, we avoid marketing property casualty insurance in specific geographic areas and monitor our exposure in certain coastal regions. An example of this is the reduction of our homeowner policies in the southeastern coastal region in recent years. This area was identified as a major contributor to our catastrophe probable maximum loss estimates and has subsequently been greatly reduced. We also continually review aggregate exposures to huge disasters and purchase reinsurance protection to cover these exposures. We use the Risk Management Solutions (RMS) and Applied Insurance Research (AIR) models to evaluate exposures to a once in a 100 year and a once in a 250 year event to help determine appropriate reinsurance coverage programs. In conjunction with these activities, we also continue to evaluate information provided by our reinsurance broker. These various sources explore and analyze credible scientific evidence, including the impact of global climate change, which may affect our exposure under insurance policies. To help determine appropriate reinsurance coverage for hurricane, earthquake, and tornado/hail exposures, we use the RMS and AIR models to estimate the probable maximum loss from a single event occurring in a one year period. The models are proprietary in nature, and the vendors that provide them periodically update the models, sometimes resulting in significant changes to their estimate of probable maximum loss. As of the end of 2011, both models indicated a hurricane event represents our largest amount of exposure to losses. The table below summarizes estimated probabilities and the corresponding probable maximum loss from a single hurricane event occurring in a one year period, and indicates the effect of such losses on consolidated shareholders equity as of December 31, 2011. Net losses are net of reinsurance and income taxes. RMS AIR Percent Percent (Dollars in millions) Gross Net of total Gross Net of total Probability as of December 31, 2011 Losses Losses equity Losses Losses equity 2.0% of a 1 in 50 year event $688 $208 4.1% $403 $110 2.2% 1.0% of a 1 in 100 year event 983 503 10.0 626 146 2.9 0.4% of a 1 in 250 year event 1,482 1,001 19.8 872 392 7.8 0.2% of a 1 in 500 year event 1,940 1,459 28.9 1,153 673 13.3 The modeled losses according to RMS in the table are based on their RiskLink version 11.0 catastrophe model and utilize a near term storm catalog methodology. The near term storm catalog theory is a more conservative approach and places a higher weighting on the increased hurricane activity of the past several years, thus producing higher probable maximum loss projections than a longer term view. The modeled losses according to AIR in the table are based on their AIR Clasic/2 version 13 catastrophe model and utilize a long term methodology. The AIR storm catalog includes decades of documented weather events used in simulations for probable maximum loss projections. Reinsurance mitigates the risk of highly uncertain exposures and limits the maximum net loss that can arise from large risks or risks concentrated in areas of exposure. Managements decisions about the appropriate level of risk retention are affected by various factors, including changes in our underwriting practices, capacity to retain risks and reinsurance market conditions. In evaluating our 2012 reinsurance program, we considered alternative reinsurance structures including catastrophe bonds and aggregate excess of loss coverage. After careful review of these options, we determined that the traditional reinsurance program we have historically utilized was the most financially prudent approach. Reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to pay covered claims. The financial strength of our reinsurers is important because our ability to recover for losses covered under any reinsurance agreement depends on the financial viability of the reinsurer. Currently participating on our standard market property and casualty per risk and per occurrence programs are Hannover Reinsurance Company, Munich Reinsurance America, Partner Reinsurance Company of the U.S. and Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation, all of which had A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings of A (Excellent) or A+ (Superior) as of December 31, 2011. Our property catastrophe program is subscribed through a broker by reinsurers from the United States, Bermuda, London and the European markets. The largest participant in our property catastrophe program, representing approximately 50 percent of total participation, is the Lloyds of London placement that features numerous syndicates, with the R.J. Kiln group and the Catlin syndicate taking the largest participations. Other primary participants in our property catastrophe program include a Liberty Syndicate, Alterra, Argo Re and Flagstone Reinsurance Limited. Until 2002 we participated in USAIG, a joint underwriting association of individual insurance companies that collectively functions as a worldwide insurance market for all types of aviation and aerospace accounts. Our participation was terminated after policy year 2002. At year end 2011, 17.4 percent, or $108 million, of our total reinsurance receivables were related to USAIG, primarily for events of September 11, 2001, offset by $116 million due to USAIG, the third party administrator for pool participants. If the pool participants and reinsurers were unable to fulfill their financial obligations and all security collateral that supports the participants obligations became worthless, we could be liable for an additional pool liability of $220 million and our financial position and results of operations could be materially affected. Currently all pool participants and reinsurers are financially solvent. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 98 The following table shows our five largest reinsurance receivable amounts by reinsurer at year end 2011 and 2010. The A.M. Best insurer financial strength ratings as of December 31, 2011 are also shown for each those reinsurers. 2011 2010 (Dollars in millions) Total A.M. Best Total A.M. Best Name of reinsurer Receivable Rating Receivable Rating USAIG $108 NA $109 NA Swiss Reinsurance America Corporation 71 A+ 84 A Lloyds of London 63 A 1 A Munich Reinsurance America 47 A+ 54 A+ General Reinsurance Corporation 36 A++ 41 A++ Primary components of the 2012 property and casualty reinsurance program include: &middot;Property per risk treaty &ndash; The primary purpose of the property treaty is to provide capacity up to $25 million, adequate for the majority of the risks we write. It also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $6 million of each loss, except for our homeowner line of business, which has a separate treaty that limits our retention to $4 million per loss. Losses between $6 million and $25 million are reinsured at 100 percent. The ceded premium is estimated at $37 million for 2012, compared with $32 million in 2011 and $36 million in 2010. The higher ceded premium for 2012 compared with 2011 is largely due to higher rates and estimates of higher levels of property coverage direct written premiums that are subject to the treaty. &middot;Casualty per occurrence treaty &ndash; The casualty treaty provides capacity up to $25 million. Similar to the property treaty, it provides sufficient capacity to cover the vast majority of casualty accounts we insure and also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. We retain the first $6 million of each loss. Losses between $6 million and $25 million are reinsured at 100 percent. The ceded premium is estimated at $37 million in 2012, similar to approximately $37 million paid in 2011 and in 2010. Lower 2012 rates for this treaty were partially offset by estimates of higher levels of liability coverage direct written premiums that are subject to the treaty. &middot;Casualty excess treaties &ndash; We purchase a casualty reinsurance treaty that provides an additional $25 million in protection for certain casualty losses. This treaty, along with the casualty per occurrence treaty, provides a total of $50 million of protection for workers compensation, extra contractual liability coverage and clash coverage losses, which would apply when a single occurrence involves multiple policyholders of The Cincinnati Insurance Companies or multiple coverages for one insured. The ceded premium is estimated at approximately $2 million in 2012, similar to the premium we paid in 2011 and 2010. We purchase a second casualty excess treaty, which provides an additional $20 million in casualty loss coverage. This treaty also provides catastrophic coverage for workers compensation and extra contractual liability coverage losses. The ceded premium is estimated at approximately $1 million for 2012, similar to the premium we paid in 2011 and 2010. &middot;Property catastrophe treaty &ndash; To protect against catastrophic events such as wind and hail, hurricanes or earthquakes, we purchased property catastrophe reinsurance with a limit up to $600 million. The treaty contains one reinstatement provision. For the 2012 treaty, ceded premiums are estimated at $59 million, up from approximately $49 million in 2011 and in 2010, due to increasing the coverage limit above $500 million plus higher rates. We retain the first $75 million of any loss, up from $45 million for 2011, plus varying shares of losses up to $600 million: o51.7 percent of losses between $75 million and $100 million o11.3 percent of losses between $100 million and $200 million o5.4 percent of losses between $200 million and $300 million o5.0 percent of losses between $300 million and $400 million o5.0 percent of losses between $400 million and $600 million After reinsurance, our maximum exposure to a catastrophic event that caused $500 million in covered losses would be $115 million compared with $88 million in 2011 and $104 million in 2010. The largest catastrophe loss event in our history occurred during 2011 from a May 20 27 storm system that included a tornado in Joplin, Missouri, and also significant losses from hail in the Dayton, Ohio, area. Our losses from that storm were estimated at December 31, 2011, to be $235 million before reinsurance. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 99 Individual risks with insured values in excess of $25 million, as identified in the policy, are handled through a different reinsurance mechanism. We typically reinsure property coverage for individual risks with insured values between $25 million and $65 million under an automatic facultative agreement. For risks with property values exceeding $65 million, we negotiate the purchase of facultative coverage on an individual certificate basis. For casualty coverage on individual risks with limits exceeding $25 million, facultative reinsurance coverage is placed on an individual certificate basis. For risks with property or casualty limits which are between $25 million and $27 million, we sometimes forego facultative reinsurance and retain an additional $2 million of loss exposure. Terrorism coverage at various levels has been secured in most of our reinsurance agreements. The broadest coverage for this peril is found in the property and casualty working treaties, the property per risk treaty and the casualty per occurrence treaty, which provide coverage for commercial and personal risks. Our property catastrophe treaty provides terrorism coverage for personal risks, and coverage for commercial risks with total insured values of $10 million or less. For insured values between $10 million and $25 million, there also may be coverage in the property working treaty. A form of reinsurance is also provided through The Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002 (TRIA). TRIA was originally signed into law on November 26, 2002, and extended on December 22, 2005, in a revised form, and extended again on December 26, 2007. TRIA provides a temporary federal backstop for losses related to the writing of the terrorism peril in property casualty insurance policies. TRIA now is scheduled to expire December 31, 2014. Under regulations promulgated under this statute, insurers are required to offer terrorism coverage for certain lines of property casualty insurance, including property, commercial multi peril, fire, ocean marine, inland marine, liability, aircraft and workers compensation. In the event of a terrorism event defined by TRIA, the federal government would reimburse terrorism claim payments subject to the insurers deductible. The deductible is calculated as a percentage of subject written premiums for the preceding calendar year. Our deductible in 2011 was $366 million (20 percent of 2010 subject premiums), and we estimate it is $383 million (20 percent of 2011 subject premiums) in 2012. Reinsurance protection for the companys surety business is covered under separate treaties with many of the same reinsurers that write the property casualty working treaties. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company, which began issuing insurance policies in 2008, has separate property and casualty reinsurance treaties for 2012 through The Cincinnati Insurance Company. Primary components of the treaties include: &middot;Property per risk treaty &ndash; The property treaty provides limits up to $5 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. It also includes protection for extra contractual liability coverage losses. The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company retains the first $1 million of any policy loss. Losses between $1 million and $5 million are reinsured at 100 percent by The Cincinnati Insurance Company. &middot;Casualty treaties &ndash; The casualty treaty is written on an excess of loss basis and provide limits up to $6 million, which is adequate capacity for the risk profile we insure. A second treaty layer of $5 million excess of $6 million is written to provide coverage for extra contractual obligations or clash exposures. The maximum retention for any one casualty loss is $1 million by The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company. Losses between $1 million and $11 million are reinsured at 100 percent by The Cincinnati Insurance Company. &middot;Basket retention &ndash; The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company has purchased this coverage to limit our retention to $1 million in the event that the same occurrence results in both a property and a casualty loss. &middot;Property catastrophe treaty &ndash; As a subsidiary of The Cincinnati Insurance Company, The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company has been added as a named insured under our corporate property catastrophe treaty. All terms and conditions of this treaty apply to policies underwritten by The Cincinnati Specialty Underwriters Insurance Company. For property risks with limits exceeding $5 million or casualty risks with limits exceeding $6 million, underwriters place facultative reinsurance coverage on an individual certificate basis. Assumed Reinsurance The Cincinnati Insurance Companys reinsurance program for 2012 includes participation in two assumed reinsurance treaties with Kiln Group Limited, a reinsurer that spreads the risk of very high catastrophe losses among many insurers. The larger treaty has exposure of up to nearly $3 million of assumed losses from a single event and the smaller treaty has exposure of up to nearly $2 million of assumed losses from a single event. The treaties with Kiln Group Limited were in place during 2011 at similar exposure levels. A separate assumed reinsurance treaty, with Munich Re Group, was in effect during 2011 but was not renewed for 2012. The Munich Re Group treaty had exposure of up to $7 million of assumed losses in three layers, from $1.0 billion to $1.7 billion, from a single event. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 100 Safe Harbor Statement This is our Safe Harbor statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our business is subject to certain risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those suggested by the forward looking statements in this report. Some of those risks and uncertainties are discussed in Item 1A, Risk Factors, Page 26. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to: &middot;Unusually high levels of catastrophe losses due to risk concentrations, changes in weather patterns, environmental events, terrorism incidents or other causes &middot;Increased frequency and or severity of claims &middot;Inadequate estimates or assumptions used for critical accounting estimates &middot;Recession or other economic conditions resulting in lower demand for insurance products or increased payment delinquencies &middot;Declines in overall stock market values negatively affecting the companys equity portfolio and book value &middot;Events resulting in capital market or credit market uncertainty, followed by prolonged periods of economic instability or recession, that lead to: oSignificant or prolonged decline in the value of a particular security or group of securities and impairment of the asset(s) oSignificant decline in investment income due to reduced or eliminated dividend payouts from a particular security or group of securities oSignificant rise in losses from surety and director and officer policies written for financial institutions or other insured entities &middot;Prolonged low interest rate environment or other factors that limit the companys ability to generate growth in investment income or interest rate fluctuations that result in declining values of fixed maturity investments, including declines in accounts in which we hold bank owned life insurance contract assets &middot;Increased competition that could result in a significant reduction in the companys premium volume &middot;Delays in adoption and implementation of underwriting and pricing methods that could increase our pricing accuracy, underwriting profit and competitiveness &middot;Changing consumer insurance buying habits and consolidation of independent insurance agencies that could alter our competitive advantages &middot;Inability to obtain adequate reinsurance on acceptable terms, amount of reinsurance purchased, financial strength of reinsurers and the potential for non payment or delay in payment by reinsurers &middot;Inability to defer policy acquisition costs for any business segment if pricing and loss trends would lead management to conclude that segment could not achieve sustainable profitability &middot;Events or conditions that could weaken or harm the companys relationships with its independent agencies and hamper opportunities to add new agencies, resulting in limitations on the companys opportunities for growth, such as: &middot;Downgrades of the companys financial strength ratings oConcerns that doing business with the company is too difficult oPerceptions that the companys level of service, particularly claims service, is no longer a distinguishing characteristic in the marketplace oDelays or inadequacies in the development, implementation, performance and benefits of technology projects and enhancements &middot;Actions of insurance departments, state attorneys general or other regulatory agencies, including a change to a federal system of regulation from a state based system, that: oImpose new obligations on us that increase our expenses or change the assumptions underlying our critical accounting estimates oPlace the insurance industry under greater regulatory scrutiny or result in new statutes, rules and regulations oRestrict our ability to exit or reduce writings of unprofitable coverages or lines of business oAdd assessments for guaranty funds, other insurance related assessments or mandatory reinsurance arrangements; or that impair our ability to recover such assessments through future surcharges or other rate changes oIncrease our provision for federal income taxes due to changes in tax law oIncrease our other expenses oLimit our ability to set fair, adequate and reasonable rates oPlace us at a disadvantage in the marketplace oRestrict our ability to execute our business model, including the way we compensate agents &middot;Adverse outcomes from litigation or administrative proceedings &middot;Events or actions, including unauthorized intentional circumvention of controls, that reduce the companys future ability to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting under the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 101 &middot;Unforeseen departure of certain executive officers or other key employees due to retirement, health or other causes that could interrupt progress toward important strategic goals or diminish the effectiveness of certain longstanding relationships with insurance agents and others &middot;Events, such as an epidemic, natural catastrophe or terrorism, that could hamper our ability to assemble our workforce at our headquarters location &middot;Difficulties with technology or data security breaches, including cyber attacks, that could negatively affect our ability to conduct business and our relationships with agents, policyholders and others Further, the companys insurance businesses are subject to the effects of changing social, economic and regulatory environments. Public and regulatory initiatives have included efforts to adversely influence and restrict premium rates, restrict the ability to cancel policies, impose underwriting standards and expand overall regulation. The company also is subject to public and regulatory initiatives that can affect the market value for its common stock, such as measures affecting corporate financial reporting and governance. The ultimate changes and eventual effects, if any, of these initiatives are uncertain. Item 7A.Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Introduction Market risk is the potential for a decrease in securities value resulting from broad yet uncontrollable forces such as: inflation, economic growth, interest rates, world political conditions or other widespread unpredictable events. It is comprised of many individual risks that, when combined, create a macroeconomic impact. The company accepts and manages risks in the investment portfolio as part of the means of achieving portfolio objectives. Some of the risks are: &middot;Political &ndash; the potential for a decrease in value due to the real or perceived impact of governmental policies or conditions &middot;Regulatory &ndash; the potential for a decrease in value due to the impact of legislative proposals or changes in laws or regulations &middot;Economic &ndash; the potential for a decrease in value due to changes in general economic factors (recession, inflation, deflation, etc.) &middot;Revaluation &ndash; the potential for a decrease in value due to a change in relative value (change in market multiple) of the market brought on by general economic factors &middot;Interest rate &ndash; the potential for a decrease in value of a security or portfolio due to its sensitivity to changes (increases or decreases) in the general level of interest rates &middot;Company specific risk &ndash; the potential for a particular issuer to experience a decline in value due to the impact of sector or market risk on the holding or because of issues specific to the firm &middot;Fraud &ndash; the potential for a negative impact on an issuers performance due to actual or alleged illegal or improper activity of individuals it employs &middot;Credit &ndash; the potential for deterioration in an issuers financial profile due to specific company issues, problems it faces in the course of its operations or industry related issues &middot;Default &ndash; the possibility that an issuer will not make a required payment (interest payment or return of principal) on its debt. Generally this occurs after its financial profile has deteriorated (credit risk) and it no longer has the means to make its payments The investment committee of the board of directors monitors the investment risk management process primarily through its executive oversight of our investment activities. We take an active approach to managing market and other investment risks, including the accountabilities and controls over these activities. Actively managing these market risks is integral to our operations and could require us to change the character of future investments purchased or sold or require us to shift the existing asset portfolios to manage exposure to market risk within acceptable ranges. Sector risk is the potential for a negative impact on a particular industry due to its sensitivity to factors that make up market risk. Market risk affects general supply/demand factors for an industry and affects companies within that industry to varying degrees. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 102 Risks associated with the five asset classes described in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 20, can be summarized as follows (H &ndash; high, A &ndash; average, L &ndash; low): Taxable fixed maturities Tax exempt fixed maturities Common equities Preferred equities Political A H A A Regulatory A A A A Economic A A H A Revaluation A A H A Interest rate H H A H Fraud A L A A Credit A L A A Default A L A A Our investment portfolio had no European sovereign debt holdings but did include a relatively small amount of other European based securities. The December 31, 2011 fair value total of $424 million consisted of $421 million in bonds and $3 million in preferred stocks. The table below summarizes amounts for those securities by country. At December 31, 2011 Financial Non financial Total Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Amortized Fair (In millions) cost value cost value cost value Great Britain $63 $64 $112 $123 $175 $187 Switzerland 39 40 3 4 42 44 France 28 25 10 10 38 35 Netherlands 12 14 22 25 34 39 Belgium 0 0 28 35 28 35 Germany 8 8 10 10 18 18 Italy 0 0 17 15 17 15 Ireland 11 11 5 6 16 17 Spain 0 0 12 12 12 12 Sweden 0 0 8 8 8 8 Luxembourg 0 0 8 8 8 8 Greece 0 0 6 6 6 6 Total European exposure $161 $162 $241 $262 $402 $424 Fixed Maturity Investments For investment grade corporate bonds, the inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices leads to falling bond values during periods of increasing interest rates. We address this risk by attempting to construct a generally laddered maturity schedule that allows us to reinvest cash flows at prevailing rates. Although the potential for a worsening financial condition, and ultimately default, does exist with investment grade corporate bonds, we address this risk by performing credit analysis and monitoring as well as maintaining a diverse portfolio of holdings. The primary risk related to high yield corporate bonds is credit risk or the potential for a deteriorating financial structure. A weak financial profile can lead to rating downgrades from the credit rating agencies, which can put further downward pressure on bond prices. Interest rate risk, while significant, is less of a factor with high yield corporate bonds, as valuation is related more directly to underlying operating performance than to general interest rates. This puts more emphasis on the financial results achieved by the issuer rather than on general economic trends or statistics within the marketplace. We address this concern by analyzing issuer and industry specific financial results and by closely monitoring holdings within this asset class. The primary risks related to tax exempt bonds are interest rate risk and political risk associated with the specific economic environment within the political boundaries of the issuing municipal entity. We address these concerns by focusing on municipalities general obligation debt and on essential service bonds. Essential service bonds derive a revenue stream from municipal services that are vital to the people living in the area (water service, sewer service, etc.). Another risk related to tax exempt bonds is regulatory risk or the potential for legislative changes that would negate the benefit of owning tax exempt bonds. We monitor regulatory activity for situations that may negatively affect current holdings and our ongoing strategy for investing in these securities. The final, less significant risk is our exposure to credit risk for a portion of the tax exempt portfolio that has support from corporate entities. Examples are bonds insured by corporate bond insurers or bonds with interest payments made by a corporate entity through a municipal conduit/authority. Our decisions regarding these investments primarily consider the underlying municipal situation. The existence of third party insurance is intended to reduce risk in the event of default. In circumstances in which the municipality is unable to meet its obligations, risk would be increased if the insuring entity were experiencing financial duress. Because of our diverse exposure and selection of higher rated entities with strong financial profiles, we do not believe this is a material concern as we discuss in Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 20. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 103 Interest Rate Sensitivity Analysis Because of our strong surplus, long term investment horizon and ability to hold most fixed maturity investments to maturity, we believe the company is well positioned if interest rates were to rise. A higher rate environment would provide the opportunity to invest cash flow in higher yielding securities, while reducing the likelihood of untimely redemptions of currently callable securities. While higher interest rates would be expected to increase the number of fixed maturity holdings fair valued below 100 percent of amortized cost, we believe lower fixed maturity security values due solely to interest rate changes would not signal a decline in credit quality. Our dynamic financial planning model uses analytical tools to assess market risks. As part of this model, the effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio is continually monitored by our investment department to evaluate the theoretical impact of interest rate movements. The table below summarizes the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates on the fixed maturity portfolio: Interest Rate Shift in Basis Points (In millions) 200 100 0 100 200 At December 31, 2011 $9,597 $9,179 $8,779 $8,390 $8,008 At December 31, 2010 $9,260 $8,814 $8,383 $7,964 $7,568 The effective duration of the fixed maturity portfolio was 4.4 years at year end 2011, compared with 5.0 years at year end 2010. A 100 basis point movement in interest rates would result in an approximately 4.5 percent change in the fair value of the fixed maturity portfolio. Generally speaking, the higher a bond is rated, the more directly correlated movements in its fair value are to changes in the general level of interest rates, exclusive of call features. The fair values of average to lower rated corporate bonds are additionally influenced by the expansion or contraction of credit spreads. In the dynamic financial planning model, the selected interest rate change of 100 to 200 basis points represents our views of a shift in rates that is quite possible over a one year period. The rates modeled should not be considered a prediction of future events as interest rates may be much more volatile in the future. The analysis is not intended to provide a precise forecast of the effect of changes in rates on our results or financial condition, nor does it take into account any actions that we might take to reduce exposure to such risks. Equity Investments Common stocks are subject to a variety of risk factors encompassed under the umbrella of market risk. General economic swings influence the performance of the underlying industries and companies within those industries. In 2008 for example, a downturn in the economy had a negative effect on an equity portfolio. Industry and company specific risks also have the potential to substantially affect the value of our portfolio. We implemented new investment guidelines in 2008 to help address these risks by diversifying the portfolio and establishing parameters to help manage exposures. Our equity holdings represented $2.956 billion in fair value and accounted for approximately 53 percent of the unrealized appreciation of the entire portfolio at year end 2011. See Item 1, Investments Segment, Page 20, for additional details on our holdings. The primary risks related to preferred stocks are similar to those related to investment grade corporate bonds. Rising interest rates adversely affect market values due to the normal inverse relationship between interest rates and bond prices. Credit risk exists due to the subordinate position of preferred stocks in the capital structure. We minimize this risk by primarily purchasing investment grade preferred stocks of issuers with a strong history of paying a common stock dividend. Application of Asset Impairment Policy As discussed in Item 7, Critical Accounting Estimates, Asset Impairment, Page 46, our fixed maturity and equity investment portfolios are evaluated differently for other than temporary impairments. The companys asset impairment committee monitors a number of significant factors for indications of investments fair valued below the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The application of our impairment policy resulted in OTTI charges that reduced our income before income taxes by $57 million in 2011, $36 million in 2010 and $131 million in 2009. Impairments are discussed in Item 7, Investment Results of Operations, Page 81. We expect the number of securities fair valued below 100 percent of cost or amortized cost to fluctuate as interest rates rise or fall and credit spreads expand or contract due to prevailing economic conditions. Further, cost or amortized cost for some securities have been revised due to impairment charges recognized in prior periods. At year end 2011, 137 of the 2,724 securities we owned were fair valued below 100 percent of cost or amortized cost compared with 316 of the 2,671 securities we owned at year end 2010 and 355 of the 2,505 securities we owned at year end 2009. Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 104 The 137 holdings fair valued below cost or amortized cost at year end 2011 represented 7.0 percent of invested assets and $53 million in unrealized losses. &middot;122 of these holdings were fair valued between 90 percent and 100 percent of cost or amortized cost. The value of these securities fluctuates primarily because of changes in interest rates. The fair value of these 122 securities was $654 million at year end 2011, and they accounted for $20 million in unrealized losses. &middot;14 of these holdings were fair valued between 70 percent and 90 percent of cost or amortized cost. The fair value of these holdings was $162 million, and they accounted for $33 million in unrealized losses. These securities, which are being closely monitored, have been affected by a combination of factors including wider credit spreads driven primarily by the continuing effects of pressure in the real estate market and the slow pace of the economic recovery. The majority of these securities are in the financial related sectors. &middot;One security was fair valued below 70 percent of cost at year end 2011. The fair value of this security was $1 million, and it accounted for less than $1 million in unrealized loss. The following table summarizes the length of time securities in the investment portfolio have been in a continuous unrealized gain or loss position. Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total (In millions) Fair value Unrealizedlosses Fair value Unrealizedlosses Fair value Unrealizedlosses At December 31, 2011 Fixed maturities: States, municipalities and political subdivisions $ $ $12 $ $12 $ United States government 1 1 Government sponsored enterprises 10 10 Corporate securities 380 13 57 5 437 18 Subtotal 391 13 69 5 460 18 Equity securities: Common equities 333 35 333 35 Preferred equities 5 19 24 Subtotal 338 35 19 357 35 Total $729 $48 $88 $5 $817 $53 At December 31, 2010 Fixed maturities: States, municipalities and political subdivisions $325 $9 $9 $1 $334 $10 Government sponsored enterprises 133 1 133 1 Corporate securities 354 6 39 3 393 9 Subtotal 812 16 48 4 860 20 Equity securities: Common equities 337 28 337 28 Preferred equities 5 23 1 28 1 Subtotal 342 28 23 1 365 29 Total $1,154 $44 $71 $5 $1,225 $49 Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 105 The following table summarizes our investment portfolio, classifying securities based on fair values relative to cost or amortized cost: Cost or Gross Gross Number amortized Fair unrealized investment (Dollars in millions) of issues cost value gain/loss income At December 31, 2011 Taxable fixed maturities: Fair valued below 70% of amortized cost 0 $0 $0 $0 $0 Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of amortized cost 111 466 448 (18) 19 Fair valued at 100% and above of amortized cost 1,271 4,903 5,399 496 276 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 15 Total 1,382 5,369 5,847 478 310 Tax exempt fixed maturities: Fair valued below 70% of amortized cost 0 0 0 0 0 Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of amortized cost 9 12 12 0 0 Fair valued at 100% and above of amortized cost 1,245 2,703 2,920 217 114 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 3 Total 1,254 2,715 2,932 217 117 Common equities: Fair valued below 70% of cost 1 1 1 0 0 Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of cost 13 367 332 (35) 9 Fair valued at 100% and above of cost 56 1,720 2,521 801 77 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 9 Total 70 2,088 2,854 766 95 Preferred equities: Fair valued below 70% of cost 0 0 0 0 0 Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of cost 3 24 24 0 1 Fair valued at 100% and above of cost 15 50 78 28 5 Securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 0 Total 18 74 102 28 6 Portfolio summary: Fair valued below 70% of cost or amortized cost 1 1 1 0 0 Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of cost or amortized cost 136 869 816 (53) 29 Fair valued at 100% and above of cost or amortized cost 2,587 9,376 10,918 1,542 472 Investment income on securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 27 Total 2,724 $10,246 $11,735 $1,489 $528 At December 31, 2010 Portfolio summary: Fair valued below 70% of cost or amortized cost 0 $0 $0 $0 $0 Fair valued at 70% to less than 100% of cost or amortized cost 316 1,274 1,225 (49) 38 Fair valued at 100% and above of cost or amortized cost 2,355 8,900 10,199 1,299 457 Investment income on securities sold in current year 0 0 0 0 27 Total 2,671 $10,174 $11,424 $1,250 $522 Cincinnati Financial Corporation &ndash; 2011 10 K 106 
 
