Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations INDEX Page No. Introduction 48 Executive Overview 49 Business Environment 51 Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business 52 Critical Accounting Policies 56 Fair Value 56 Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets 61 Use of Estimates 64 Results of Operations 64 Financial Overview 65 Segment Operating Results 72 Geographic Data 79 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 79 Equity Capital 80 Contractual Obligations and Commitments 86 Risk Management 88 Risk Management Structure 88 Market Risk 90 Credit Risk 94 Credit Risk on Derivatives 95 Liquidity and Funding Risk 97 Operational Risk 104 Recent Accounting Developments 104 47 Table of Contents Introduction Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high net worth individuals. Our activities are divided into three segments: Investment Banking. We provide a broad range of investment banking services to a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals. Trading and Principal Investments. We facilitate client transactions with a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals and take proprietary positions through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed income and equity products, currencies, commodities and derivatives on these products. In addition, we engage in specialist and market making activities on equities and options exchanges and we clear client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection with our merchant banking and other investing activities, we make principal investments directly and through funds that we raise and manage. Asset Management and Securities Services. We provide investment advisory and financial planning services and offer investment products (primarily through separate accounts and funds) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and provide prime brokerage services, financing services and securities lending services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high net worth individuals worldwide. Unless specifically stated otherwise, all references to 2006, 2005 and 2004 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, November 24, 2006, November 25, 2005 and November 26, 2004, respectively. When we use the terms Goldman Sachs, we, us and our, we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to the Annual Report on Form 10 K are to our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended November 24, 2006. In this discussion, we have included statements that may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements may relate to our future plans and objectives, among other things. By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results indicated in these forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause our results to differ, possibly materially, from those indicated in the forward looking statements include, among others, those discussed below under Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business as well as Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10 K and Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 in Part I, Item 1 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. 48 Table of Contents Executive Overview Our diluted earnings per common share were $19.69 for 2006, compared with $11.21 for 2005. Return on average tangible common shareholders equity (1) was 39.8% and return on average common shareholders equity was 32.8%. Excluding non cash expenses of $637 million related to the accounting for certain share based awards under SFAS No. 123 R (2), diluted earnings per common share for the year were $20.57 (2), return on average tangible common shareholders equity (1) was 41.8% (2) and return on average common shareholders equity was 34.4% (2). In 2006, we generated record diluted earnings per common share, which exceeded the prior year record results by 76%. Each of our three segments achieved record results. The increase in Trading and Principal Investments reflected significantly higher net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC), Equities and Principal Investments. The increase in FICC reflected particularly strong performances across all major businesses. During 2006, FICC operated in an environment characterized by strong customer driven activity and favorable market opportunities. The increase in Equities primarily reflected significantly higher net revenues in our customer franchise business. During 2006, Equities operated in a favorable environment characterized by strong customer driven activity, generally higher equity prices and favorable market opportunities, although volatility levels were generally low. In FICC and Equities, as a result of the favorable trading and investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves, we increased our market risk, particularly in equity products, to capitalize on these opportunities. We grew our balance sheet as needed to support these opportunities as well as to support increased activity in Securities Services. The increase in Principal Investments reflected a significant gain related to our investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC) and higher gains and overrides from other principal investments, partially offset by a smaller, but still significant, gain related to our investment in the convertible preferred stock of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG). The increase in Investment Banking was due to significantly higher net revenues in Underwriting and Financial Advisory, as we benefited from strong client activity levels, reflecting favorable equity and financing markets, strong CEO confidence and growth in financial sponsor activity. The increase in Asset Management and Securities Services was primarily due to higher assets under management and significantly higher incentive fees, as well as significantly higher global customer balances in Securities Services. Assets under management increased $144 billion or 27% to a record $676 billion, including net asset inflows of $94 billion during 2006. Looking forward to 2007, our investment banking backlog at the end of 2006 was at its highest level since 2000 (3). In addition to potential growth in the businesses and geographic areas in which we currently operate, the expansion of the economies of China, India, Russia and Brazil, as well as those of the Middle East offer new opportunities for us to increase our presence in those markets. In Investment Banking, there is growth potential to broaden our client base by providing strategic and financing advice and capital to middle market companies. We also see opportunities to advise governments and investors on the sale and purchase of public infrastructure assets. In addition, we are building a private banking capability as part of our strategy to provide a full range of services to our private wealth management clients. Though we generated record operating results in 2006, our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. Our results in any given period can be materially affected by conditions in global financial markets and economic conditions generally. For a further discussion of the factors that may affect our future operating results, see Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business below as well as Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. (1) Return on average tangible common shareholders equity is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly tangible common shareholders equity. See Results of Operations Financial Overview below for further information regarding our calculation of return on average tangible common shareholders equity. 49 Table of Contents (2) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123 R, Share Based Payment, focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in exchange for share based payments. In the first quarter of 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 R, which requires that share based awards held by employees that were retirement eligible, including those subject to non compete agreements, be expensed in the year of grant. In addition to expensing current year awards, prior year awards must continue to be amortized over the relevant service period. Therefore, our compensation and benefits expenses in 2006 included (and, to a lesser extent, 2007 and 2008 will include) both amortization of prior year share based awards held by employees that were retirement eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123 R and new awards granted to those employees. We believe that presenting our results excluding the impact of the continued amortization of these prior year share based awards increases the comparability of period to period operating results and allows for a more meaningful representation of the relationship of current period compensation to net revenues. The following tables set forth a reconciliation of diluted earnings per common share, common shareholders equity and net earnings applicable to common shareholders, as reported, to these items excluding the impact of the continued amortization of these prior year share based awards held by employees that were retirement eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123 R: Year Ended November 2006 Diluted earnings per common share $ 19.69 Impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards, net of tax 0.88 Diluted earnings per common share, excluding the impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards $ 20.57 Average for the Year Ended November 2006 (in millions) Total shareholders equity $ 31,048 Preferred stock (2,400 ) Common shareholders equity 28,648 Impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards, net of tax (122 ) Common shareholders equity, excluding the impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards 28,526 Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts (see footnote 1 above) (5,013 ) Tangible common shareholders equity (see footnote 1 above), excluding the impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards $ 23,513 Year Ended November 2006 (in millions) Net earnings applicable to common shareholders $ 9,398 Impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards, net of tax 421 Net earnings applicable to common shareholders, excluding the impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards $ 9,819 (3) Our investment banking backlog represents an estimate of our future net revenues from investment banking transactions where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than not. 50 Table of Contents Business Environment As an investment banking, securities and investment management firm, our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally, both in the United States and elsewhere around the world. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence and strong business earnings. These factors provide a positive climate for our investment banking activities, for many of our trading businesses and for wealth creation, which contributes to growth in our asset management business. Although global short term interest rates rose to modest levels and yield curves continued to flatten in 2006, economic conditions remained favorable, as global equity prices generally rose, core inflation was broadly contained and corporate activity strengthened. For a further discussion of how market conditions can affect our businesses, see Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business below as well as Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. A further discussion of the business environment in 2006 is set forth below. Global. After solid economic growth in 2005, the global economy grew at a strong pace in 2006, particularly during the first half of the year. However, during the second half of the year, economic growth in the United States and Japan showed some signs of deceleration, while the pace of growth in the Eurozone economy appeared to strengthen. Corporate activity was very strong, as mergers and acquisitions and equity and debt underwriting volumes increased significantly compared with 2005. The U.S. Federal Reserve continued to raise rates in the first half of the year, increasing its federal funds target rate by a total of 125 basis points. Despite the increase in short term rates, fixed income markets were favorable as long term bond yields remained low and the credit environment remained strong. Oil prices remained high throughout the year, despite declining during our fourth quarter, but this did not appear to materially affect consumer spending or global growth. In the currency markets, the U.S. dollar weakened against most major currencies, as well as against such emerging market currencies as the Brazilian real, Chinese yuan and Korean won. United States. The U.S. economy grew at a strong pace during the year as financial conditions remained supportive of economic activity. Real gross domestic product rose by 3.4% in the 2006 calendar year, driven principally by strength in the industrial sector, solid consumer expenditure growth and a strong labor market. This growth occurred despite a decline in the housing market and residential investment. After slowing modestly in the beginning of 2006, the rate of inflation increased, particularly in the second quarter, as energy prices rose significantly. Measures of core inflation also accelerated, although they eased towards the end of the calendar year. In response to the strong economic growth and rising inflation, the U.S. Federal Reserve raised its federal funds target rate by 25 basis points in each of its meetings in 2006 through June, bringing the rate to 5.25%. However, the Federal Reserve kept rates unchanged for the remainder of the year as the pace of growth moderated, reflecting a decline in the U.S. housing market and the delayed effects of higher interest rates and energy prices. Despite the rise in short term interest rates, the 10 year U.S. Treasury note yield ended the year only 12 basis points higher at 4.55%. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, S&P 500 Index and NASDAQ Composite Index increased by 12%, 10% and 9%, respectively, during our fiscal year. Europe. The pace of economic growth in Europe accelerated as real gross domestic product in the Eurozone economy grew by approximately 2.7% in the 2006 calendar year. Despite a higher Euro, economic conditions in the Eurozone countries improved throughout the year, and consumer sentiment began to improve as a result of lower unemployment levels and higher domestic demand. After leaving rates unchanged for over two years, the European Central Bank raised interest rates by a total of 125 basis points during our 2006 fiscal year, bringing its policy rate to 3.25%. In the United Kingdom, real gross domestic product growth accelerated to approximately 2.7% in the 2006 calendar year, primarily reflecting strong investment spending. The Bank of England increased interest rates by 50 basis points to 5.00%, after having reduced rates by 25 basis points in 2005. 51 Table of Contents Long term bond yields in both the Eurozone and the United Kingdom ended our fiscal year modestly higher. Reflecting the improvement in economic growth, European equity markets increased significantly during our fiscal year. Asia. Japans economy grew at a relatively strong pace for the second year in a row, with real gross domestic product increasing by approximately 2.2% in the 2006 calendar year. The recovery in private investment and domestic demand continued to drive much of the improvement in the first part of the year, while exports drove real gross domestic product growth toward the end of the calendar year. The unemployment rate fell to 4.2% in 2006 from 4.4% in calendar 2005. The Bank of Japan ended its zero interest rate policy, which had been in place since early 2001, and raised the target overnight call rate by 25 basis points during our fiscal year. The yield on 10 year Japanese government bonds increased slightly, ending our fiscal year up 17 basis points. Despite slightly higher short and long term interest rates, financial conditions remained supportive of economic activity. The yen appreciated slightly against the U.S. dollar, but declined against most other major currencies, while the Nikkei 225 Index increased 6% during our fiscal year. Elsewhere in Asia, Chinas real gross domestic product growth remained robust, with growth particularly reliant on net exports, as demonstrated by Chinas large current account surplus. China continued to allow its currency to appreciate modestly, with evidence of acceleration during the second half of the calendar year, ending our fiscal year nearly 3% higher against the U.S. dollar. Other currencies in the region also strengthened against the U.S. dollar, including the Korean won, Philippine peso and the Taiwan dollar. Growth in India also remained strong, which, together with China, supported growth throughout the region. Equity markets across the region generally rose, with markets in China, India, Hong Kong, South Korea and Taiwan all posting significant gains during our fiscal year. Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. For a discussion of how management seeks to manage some of these risks, see Risk Management below. A summary of the more important factors that could affect our business follows below. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect our business, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. Market Conditions and Market Risk. Our businesses are materially affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, and these conditions may change suddenly and dramatically. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, stable geopolitical conditions, transparent and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions, which can be caused by outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability, declines in business confidence, increases in inflation, corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets, natural disasters or pandemics or a combination of these or other factors, have adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, our business and profitability in many ways, including the following: We have been operating in a low interest rate market for the past several years. Increasing or high interest rates and or widening credit spreads, especially if such changes are rapid, may create a less favorable environment for certain of our businesses. We have been committing increasing amounts of capital in many of our businesses and generally maintain large trading, specialist and investing positions. Market fluctuations and volatility may adversely affect the value of those positions, including, but not limited to, our interest rate and credit products, currency, commodity and equity positions and our merchant banking investments, or may reduce our willingness to enter into new transactions. From time 52 Table of Contents to time, we have incurred significant trading losses in periods of market turbulence. Conversely, certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. Industry wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and mergers and acquisitions may have an adverse effect on our revenues and, because we may be unable to reduce expenses correspondingly, our profit margins. In particular, because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues are derived from our participation in large transactions, a decrease in the number of large transactions due to uncertain or unfavorable market conditions may adversely affect our investment banking business. Pricing and other competitive pressures have continued, even as the volume and number of investment banking transactions have increased. In addition, the trend in the underwriting business toward multiple book runners and co managers handling transactions, where previously there would have been a single book runner, has adversely affected our business and reduced our revenues. Reductions in the level of the equity markets or increases in interest rates tend to reduce the value of our clients portfolios, which in turn may reduce the fees we earn for managing assets. Increases in interest rates or attractive conditions in other investments could cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products. Even in the absence of uncertain or unfavorable economic or market conditions, investment performance by our asset management business below the performance of benchmarks or competitors could result in a decline in assets under management and in the incentive and management fees we receive as well as reputational damage that might make it more difficult to attract new investors. Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market making, proprietary trading and investing, block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending businesses. This risk may increase to the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital to facilitate customer driven business. For example, in recent years large blocks of securities have increasingly been sold in block trades rather than on a marketed basis, which increases the risk that Goldman Sachs may be unable to resell the purchased securities at favorable prices and may incur significant losses as a result. Moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are generally favorable for others in the industry. We also regularly enter into large transactions as part of our trading businesses. The number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. The volume of transactions that we execute for our clients and as a specialist or market maker may decline, which would reduce the revenues we receive from commissions and spreads. In addition, competitive pressures and other industry factors, including the increasing use by our clients of low cost electronic trading, could cause a reduction in commissions and spreads. In our specialist businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining market. This may result in trading losses and an increased need for liquidity. Weakness in global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our trading businesses and impair the value of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. In addition, competitive pressures have been particularly intense in the context of block trades. For a further discussion of our goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, see Critical Accounting Policies Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets below. 53 Table of Contents While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses. Market volatility has been relatively low in recent years. An increase in volatility would increase our measured risk, which might cause us to reduce our proprietary positions or to reduce certain of our business activities. In such circumstances, we may not be able to reduce our positions or our exposure in a timely, cost effective way or in a manner sufficient to offset the increase in measured risk. Liquidity Risk. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access secured and or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we are unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. The financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are increasingly complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. Growth of our proprietary investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral. Termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. For a discussion of the potential impact on Goldman Sachs of a reduction in our credit ratings, see Liquidity and Funding Risk Credit Ratings below. Credit Risk. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In addition, a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. The amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, as has the breadth of the entities to which we have credit exposures. As a clearing member firm, we finance our client positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. In addition, we have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. In particular, corporate clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee, particularly as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients, with new asset classes and in new markets. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one institution could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect Goldman Sachs. 54 Table of Contents Operational Risk. Shortcomings or failures in our internal processes, people or systems, or external events could lead to impairment of our liquidity, financial loss, disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. For example, our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. The transactions we process have become increasingly complex and often must adhere to client specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Despite the contingency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, transportation or other services used by Goldman Sachs or third parties with which we conduct business. Legal and Regulatory Risk. We are subject to extensive and evolving regulation in jurisdictions around the world. Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against Goldman Sachs could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to Goldman Sachs, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. For a discussion of how we account for our legal and regulatory exposures, see Use of Estimates below. 55 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Fair Value The use of fair value to measure our financial instruments, with related unrealized gains or losses generally recognized immediately in our results of operations, is fundamental to our financial statements and is our most critical accounting policy. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties, other than in a forced or liquidation sale. In determining fair value, we separate our financial instruments into three categories cash (i.e., nonderivative) trading instruments, derivative contracts and principal investments (included within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment), as set forth in the following table: Financial Instruments by Category (in millions) As of November 2006 2005 Financial Financial Financial Instruments Sold, Financial Instruments Sold, Instruments But Not Yet Instruments But Not Yet Owned, At Purchased, At Owned, At Purchased, At Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Cash trading instruments $ 247,031 (1) $ 87,244 $ 210,042 $ 89,735 Derivative contracts 67,543 65,496 58,532 57,829 Principal investments 13,962 (2) 3,065 (3) 6,526 (2) 1,507 (3) Total $ 328,536 $ 155,805 $ 275,100 $ 149,071 (1) Includes securities held by our bank and insurance subsidiaries, which are accounted for as available for sale (AFS) under SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. The following table sets forth the types of AFS securities and their maturity profile: As of November 2006 Under 10 Years One Year 1 5 Years 5 10 Years or Greater Total (in millions) Mortgage backed and other federal agency securities $ 2,374 $ 1,031 $ 146 $ 111 $ 3,662 Investment grade corporate bonds 23 1,403 42 51 1,519 Collateralized debt obligations 192 4,199 121 4,512 Other debt securities 115 31 52 54 252 Total $ 2,704 $ 6,664 $ 240 $ 337 $ 9,945 (2) Excludes assets related to consolidated merchant banking funds of $6.03 billion and $1.93 billion as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, for which Goldman Sachs is not at risk. (3) Represents an economic hedge on the unrestricted shares of common stock underlying our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG. For a further discussion of our investment in SMFG, see Principal Investments below. 56 Table of Contents Cash Trading Instruments. The following table sets forth the valuation of our cash trading instruments by level of price transparency: Cash Trading Instruments by Price Transparency (in millions) As of November 2006 2005 Financial Financial Financial Instruments Sold, Financial Instruments Sold, Instruments But Not Yet Instruments But Not Yet Owned, At Purchased, At Owned, At Purchased, At Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Quoted prices or alternative pricing sources with reasonable price transparency $ 231,012 $ 87,110 $ 198,233 $ 89,565 Little or no price transparency 16,019 134 11,809 170 Total $ 247,031 $ 87,244 $ 210,042 $ 89,735 Fair values of our cash trading instruments are generally obtained from quoted market prices in active markets, broker or dealer price quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. The types of instruments valued in this manner include U.S. government and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations, liquid mortgage products, investment grade and high yield corporate bonds, listed equities, money market securities, state, municipal and provincial obligations, and physical commodities. Certain cash trading instruments trade infrequently and have little or no price transparency. Such instruments include certain corporate bank loans, mortgage whole loans and distressed debt. We value these instruments initially at cost and generally do not adjust valuations unless there is substantive evidence supporting a change in the value of the underlying instrument or valuation assumptions (such as similar market transactions, changes in financial ratios or changes in the credit ratings of the underlying companies). Where there is evidence supporting a change in the value, we use valuation methodologies such as the present value of known or estimated cash flows. Cash trading instruments we own (long positions) are marked to bid prices, and instruments we have sold but not yet purchased (short positions) are marked to offer prices. In certain circumstances, such as for positions that are illiquid or have transfer restrictions, the fair value reflects liquidity valuation adjustments based on market evidence or predetermined policies. For certain highly illiquid positions, managements estimates are used to determine these liquidity valuation adjustments. See Recent Accounting Developments below for a discussion of the impact of SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements on the valuation of financial instruments. 57 Table of Contents Derivative Contracts. Derivative contracts consist of exchange traded and over the counter (OTC) derivatives. The following table sets forth the fair value of our exchange traded and OTC derivative assets and liabilities: Derivative Assets and Liabilities (in millions) As of November 2006 2005 Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities Exchange traded derivatives $ 14,407 $ 13,851 $ 10,869 $ 9,083 OTC derivatives 53,136 51,645 47,663 48,746 Total $ 67,543 (1) $ 65,496 (2) $ 58,532 (1) $ 57,829 (2) (1) Net of cash received pursuant to credit support agreements of $24.06 billion and $22.61 billion as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. (2) Net of cash paid pursuant to credit support agreements of $16.00 billion and $16.10 billion as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. Fair values of our exchange traded derivatives are generally determined from quoted market prices. OTC derivatives are valued using valuation models. We use a variety of valuation models including the present value of known or estimated cash flows and option pricing models. The valuation models that we use to derive the fair values of our OTC derivatives require inputs including contractual terms, market prices, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs. The selection of a model to value an OTC derivative depends upon the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent in, the instrument as well as the availability of pricing information in the market. We generally use similar models to value similar instruments. Where possible, we verify the values produced by our pricing models to market transactions. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model selection does not involve significant judgment because market prices are readily available. For OTC derivatives that trade in less liquid markets, model selection requires more judgment because such instruments tend to be more complex and pricing information is less available in these markets. Price transparency is inherently more limited for more complex structures because they often combine one or more product types, requiring additional inputs such as correlations and volatilities. As markets continue to develop and more pricing information becomes available, we continue to review and refine the models that we use. At the inception of an OTC derivative contract (day one), we value the contract at the model value if we can verify all of the significant model inputs to observable market data and verify the model to market transactions. When appropriate, valuations are adjusted to reflect various factors such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. These adjustments are generally based on market evidence or predetermined policies. In certain circumstances, such as for highly illiquid positions, managements estimates are used to determine these adjustments. Where we cannot verify all of the significant model inputs to observable market data and verify the model to market transactions, we value the contract at the transaction price at inception and, consequently, record no day one gain or loss in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 02 3, Issues Involved in Accounting for Derivative Contracts Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities. Following day one, we adjust the inputs to our valuation models only to the extent that changes in these inputs can be verified by similar market transactions, third party pricing services and or broker quotes, or can be derived from other substantive evidence such as empirical market data. In circumstances where we cannot verify the model to market transactions, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value. See Recent Accounting Developments below for a discussion of the impact of SFAS No. 157 on the valuation of financial instruments. 58 Table of Contents The following tables set forth the fair values of our OTC derivative assets and liabilities by product and by remaining contractual maturity: OTC Derivatives (in millions) As of November 2006 Assets 0 6 6 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Contract Type Months Months Years Years or Greater Total Interest rates (1) $ 2,432 $ 1,706 $ 5,617 $ 5,217 $ 6,201 $ 21,173 Currencies 5,578 943 3,103 1,669 966 12,259 Commodities 3,892 1,215 5,836 1,258 231 12,432 Equities 1,430 1,134 1,329 2,144 1,235 7,272 Total $ 13,332 $ 4,998 $ 15,885 $ 10,288 $ 8,633 $ 53,136 Liabilities 0 6 6 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Contract Type Months Months Years Years or Greater Total Interest rates (1) $ 2,807 $ 1,242 $ 6,064 $ 3,582 $ 5,138 $ 18,833 Currencies 6,859 1,290 2,582 494 634 11,859 Commodities 3,078 658 4,253 1,643 273 9,905 Equities 3,235 1,682 2,615 3,239 277 11,048 Total $ 15,979 $ 4,872 $ 15,514 $ 8,958 $ 6,322 $ 51,645 As of November 2005 Assets 0 6 6 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Contract Type Months Months Years Years or Greater Total Interest rates (1) $ 1,898 $ 467 $ 4,634 $ 5,310 $ 5,221 $ 17,530 Currencies 5,825 1,031 1,843 919 1,046 10,664 Commodities 3,772 1,369 8,130 1,374 120 14,765 Equities 1,168 1,171 832 1,403 130 4,704 Total $ 12,663 $ 4,038 $ 15,439 $ 9,006 $ 6,517 $ 47,663 Liabilities 0 6 6 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Contract Type Months Months Years Years or Greater Total Interest rates (1) $ 1,956 $ 590 $ 5,327 $ 3,142 $ 4,970 $ 15,985 Currencies 6,295 575 3,978 436 924 12,208 Commodities 3,852 2,080 5,904 1,865 162 13,863 Equities 1,308 1,068 2,079 1,993 242 6,690 Total $ 13,411 $ 4,313 $ 17,288 $ 7,436 $ 6,298 $ 48,746 (1) Includes credit related derivatives. We enter into certain OTC option transactions that provide us or our counterparties with the right to extend the maturity of the underlying contract. The fair value of these option contracts is not material to the aggregate fair value of our OTC derivative portfolio. In the tables above, for option contracts that require settlement by delivery of an underlying derivative instrument, the remaining contractual maturity is generally classified based upon the maturity date of the underlying derivative instrument. In those instances where the underlying instrument does not have a maturity date or either counterparty has the right to settle in cash, the remaining contractual maturity is generally based upon the option expiration date. 59 Table of Contents Principal Investments. The following table sets forth the carrying value of the investments included within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment. These investments consist of private investments, investments in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG and the ordinary shares of ICBC, and other public investments: Principal Investments (in millions) As of November 2006 2005 Corporate Real Estate Total Corporate Real Estate Total Private $ 2,741 $ 555 $ 3,296 $ 1,538 $ 716 $ 2,254 Public 934 33 967 185 29 214 Subtotal (1) 3,675 588 4,263 1,723 745 2,468 SMFG convertible preferred stock (2) (3) 4,505 4,505 4,058 4,058 ICBC ordinary shares (4) 5,194 5,194 Total $ 13,374 $ 588 $ 13,962 $ 5,781 $ 745 $ 6,526 (1) Excludes assets related to consolidated merchant banking funds of $6.03 billion and $1.93 billion as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, for which Goldman Sachs is not at risk. (2) The fair value of our Japanese yen denominated investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG includes the effect of foreign exchange revaluation. We mitigate our economic exposure to exchange rate movements on our investment in SMFG by borrowing Japanese yen. Foreign exchange revaluation on the investment and the related borrowing are generally equal and offsetting. For example, if the Japanese yen appreciates against the U.S. dollar, the U.S. dollar carrying value of our SMFG investment will increase and the U.S. dollar carrying value of the related borrowing will also increase by an amount that is generally equal and offsetting. (3) Excludes an economic hedge on the unrestricted shares of common stock underlying our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG. The fair value of this hedge was $3.07 billion and $1.51 billion as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, and is reflected in Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial condition. For a further discussion of the restrictions on our ability to hedge or sell the common stock underlying our investment in SMFG, see below. (4) Includes interests of $3.28 billion as of November 2006 held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. The fair value of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, which trade on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, includes the effect of foreign exchange revaluation. Our private principal investments, by their nature, have little or no price transparency. Such investments are initially carried at cost as an approximation of fair value. Adjustments to carrying value are made if there are third party transactions evidencing a change in value. Downward adjustments are also made, in the absence of third party transactions, if we determine that the expected realizable value of the investment is less than the carrying value. In reaching that determination, we consider many factors including, but not limited to, the operating cash flows and financial performance of the companies or properties relative to budgets or projections, trends within sectors and or regions, underlying business models, expected exit timing and strategy, and any specific rights or terms associated with the investment, such as conversion features and liquidation preferences. See Recent Accounting Developments below for a discussion of the impact of SFAS No. 157 on the valuation of financial instruments. Our public principal investments, which tend to be large, concentrated holdings that result from initial public offerings or other corporate transactions, are valued using quoted market prices less a liquidity valuation adjustment based on predetermined written policies. 60 Table of Contents Our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG is carried at fair value, which is derived from a model that incorporates SMFGs common stock price and credit spreads, the impact of nontransferability and illiquidity, and downside protection on the conversion strike price. The fair value of our investment is particularly sensitive to movements in the SMFG common stock price. As a result of downside protection on the conversion strike price, the relationship between changes in the fair value of our investment and changes in SMFGs common stock price would be nonlinear for a significant decline in the SMFG common stock price. During the year, the fair value of our investment (excluding the economic hedge on the unrestricted shares of common stock) increased 8% (expressed in Japanese yen), reflecting the impact of passage of time in respect of the transfer restrictions on the underlying common stock. Our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG is generally nontransferable without the consent of SMFG, but is freely convertible into SMFG common stock. As of November 2006, we had hedged two thirds of the common stock underlying our investment in SMFG. Restrictions on our ability to hedge or sell the remaining shares will lapse on February 7, 2007. As of November 2006, the conversion price was 318,800, subject to downward adjustment if the price of SMFG common stock at the time of conversion is less than the conversion price (subject to a floor of 105,100). Our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC is carried at fair value using quoted market prices less a liquidity valuation adjustment. The ordinary shares acquired from ICBC are subject to transfer restrictions that, among other things, prohibit any sale, disposition or other transfer until April 28, 2009. From April 28, 2009 to October 20, 2009, we may transfer up to 50% of the aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that we owned as of October 20, 2006. We may transfer the remaining shares after October 20, 2009. A portion of our interest is held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. Controls Over Valuation of Financial Instruments. A control infrastructure, independent of the trading and investing functions, is fundamental to ensuring that our financial instruments are appropriately valued and that fair value measurements are reliable. This is particularly important in valuing instruments with lower levels of price transparency. We employ an oversight structure that includes appropriate segregation of duties. Senior management, independent of the trading functions, is responsible for the oversight of control and valuation policies and for reporting the results of these policies to our Audit Committee. We seek to maintain the necessary resources to ensure that control functions are performed to the highest standards. We employ procedures for the approval of new transaction types and markets, price verification, review of daily profit and loss, and review of valuation models by personnel with appropriate technical knowledge of relevant products and markets. These procedures are performed by personnel independent of the revenue producing units. For trading and principal investments with little or no price transparency, we employ, where possible, procedures that include comparisons with similar observable positions, analysis of actual to projected cash flows, comparisons with subsequent sales and discussions with senior business leaders. For a further discussion of how we manage the risks inherent in our trading and principal investing businesses, see Risk Management below. Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets As a result of our acquisitions, principally SLK LLC (SLK) in 2000, The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco) in 2003, Cogentrix Energy, Inc. (Cogentrix) in 2004, National Energy & Gas Transmission, Inc. (NEGT) in 2005 and the acquisition of the variable annuity and variable life insurance business of The Hanover Insurance Group, Inc. (formerly Allmerica Financial Corporation) in 2006, we have acquired goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, at the acquisition date. 61 Table of Contents Goodwill. We test the goodwill in each of our operating segments for impairment at least annually in accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, by comparing the estimated fair value of each operating segment with its estimated net book value. We derive the fair value of each of our operating segments primarily based on price earnings multiples. We derive the net book value of our operating segments by estimating the amount of shareholders equity required to support the activities of each operating segment. Our last annual impairment test was performed during our 2006 fourth quarter and no impairment was identified. The following table sets forth the carrying value of our goodwill by operating segment: Goodwill by Operating Segment (in millions) As of November 2006 2005 Investment Banking Financial Advisory $ $ Underwriting 125 125 Trading and Principal Investments FICC 136 91 Equities (1) 2,381 2,390 Principal Investments 4 1 Asset Management and Securities Services Asset Management (2) 421 424 Securities Services 117 117 Total $ 3,184 $ 3,148 (1) Primarily related to SLK. (2) Primarily related to Ayco. Identifiable Intangible Assets. We amortize our identifiable intangible assets over their estimated useful lives in accordance with SFAS No. 142, and test for potential impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an assets or asset groups carrying value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. An impairment loss, calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value. 62 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the carrying value and range of remaining useful lives of our identifiable intangible assets by major asset class: Identifiable Intangible Assets by Asset Class ($ in millions) As of November 2006 2005 Range of Remaining Carrying Useful Lives Carrying Value (in years) Value Customer lists (1) $ 737 5 19 $ 777 Power contracts (2) 667 2 22 481 New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) specialist rights 542 15 (5) 580 Insurance related assets (3) 362 7 Exchange traded fund (ETF) specialist rights 105 21 111 Other (4) 89 1 7 106 Total $ 2,502 $ 2,055 (1) Primarily includes our clearance and execution and NASDAQ customer lists related to SLK and financial counseling customer lists related to Ayco. (2) Primarily relates to above market power contracts of consolidated power generation facilities related to Cogentrix and NEGT. Substantially all of these power contracts have been pledged to counterparties in connection with our secured financings. The increase in the carrying value of power contracts in 2006 was due to a restructuring of certain contracts, which resulted in the consolidation of the associated power generation facilities that had been previously accounted for under the equity method. (3) Consists of the value of business acquired (VOBA) and deferred acquisition costs (DAC). VOBA represents the present value of estimated future gross profits of the variable annuity and variable life insurance business acquired in 2006. DAC results from commissions paid by Goldman Sachs to the primary insurer (ceding company) on life and annuity reinsurance agreements as compensation to place the business with us and to cover the ceding companys acquisition expenses. VOBA and DAC are amortized over the estimated life of the underlying contracts based on estimated gross profits, and amortization is adjusted based on actual experience. The seven year useful life represents the weighted average remaining amortization period of the underlying contracts (certain of which extend for approximately 30 years). (4) Primarily includes technology related and other assets related to SLK. (5) During the first quarter of 2006, we reduced the estimated useful lives of our NYSE specialist rights from 22 24 years to 16 years. This change was due to higher than expected attrition in acquired NYSE specialist rights, primarily from mergers and delistings. A prolonged period of weakness in global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our businesses and impair the value of our goodwill and or identifiable intangible assets. In addition, certain events could indicate a potential impairment of our identifiable intangible assets, including (i) changes in market structure that could adversely affect our specialist businesses, (ii) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, (iii) a default event under a power contract or physical damage or other adverse events impacting the underlying power generation facilities, or (iv) adverse actual experience on the contracts in our variable annuity and variable life insurance business. 63 Table of Contents Use of Estimates The use of generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain estimates. In addition to the estimates we make in connection with fair value measurements and the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, the use of estimates is also important in determining provisions for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits. We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out of litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated, in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be materially different. Our total liability in respect of litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a case by case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in similar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of our litigation and regulatory matters, particularly in cases or proceedings in which substantial or indeterminate damages or fines are sought, we cannot estimate losses or ranges of losses for cases or proceedings where there is only a reasonable possibility that a loss may be incurred. See Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K, for information on our judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings. Results of Operations The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed. The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and market conditions. For a further discussion of the impact of economic and market conditions on our results of operations, see Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business above, and Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. 64 Table of Contents Financial Overview The following table sets forth an overview of our financial results: Financial Overview ($ in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 Net revenues (1) $ 37,665 $ 25,238 $ 20,951 Pre tax earnings 14,560 8,273 6,676 Net earnings 9,537 5,626 4,553 Net earnings applicable to common shareholders 9,398 5,609 4,553 Diluted earnings per common share 19.69 11.21 8.92 Return on average common shareholders equity (2) 32.8 % 21.8 % 19.8 % Return on average tangible common shareholders equity (3) 39.8 % 26.7 % 25.2 % (1) Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, Cost of power generation in the consolidated statements of earnings was reclassified to operating expenses. Cost of power generation was previously reported as a reduction to revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation, with no impact to our reported net earnings. (2) Return on average common shareholders equity is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly common shareholders equity. (3) Tangible common shareholders equity equals total shareholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. In 2006, we amended our calculation of tangible common shareholders equity. We no longer deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total shareholders equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common shareholders equity. Prior periods have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation. We believe that return on average tangible common shareholders equity is meaningful because it measures the performance of businesses consistently, whether they were acquired or developed internally. Return on average tangible common shareholders equity is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly tangible common shareholders equity. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of average total shareholders equity to average tangible common shareholders equity: Average for the Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Total shareholders equity $ 31,048 $ 26,264 $ 22,975 Preferred stock (2,400 ) (538 ) Common shareholders equity $ 28,648 $ 25,726 $ 22,975 Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts (5,013 ) (4,737 ) (4,918 ) Tangible common shareholders equity $ 23,635 $ 20,989 $ 18,057 65 Table of Contents Net Revenues 2006 versus 2005. Our net revenues were $37.67 billion in 2006, an increase of 49% compared with 2005, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments, Investment Banking, and Asset Management and Securities Services. The increase in Trading and Principal Investments reflected significantly higher net revenues in FICC, Equities and Principal Investments. The increase in FICC reflected particularly strong performances across all major businesses. During 2006, FICC operated in an environment characterized by strong customer driven activity and favorable market opportunities. In addition, corporate credit spreads tightened, the yield curve flattened and volatility levels were generally low in interest rate and currency markets. The increase in Equities primarily reflected significantly higher net revenues in our customer franchise business. During 2006, Equities operated in a favorable environment characterized by strong customer driven activity, generally higher equity prices and favorable market opportunities, although volatility levels were generally low. The increase in Principal Investments reflected a significant gain related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC and higher gains and overrides from other principal investments, partially offset by a smaller, but still significant, gain related to our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG. The increase in Investment Banking was due to significantly higher net revenues in Underwriting and Financial Advisory, as we benefited from strong client activity levels, reflecting favorable equity and financing markets, strong CEO confidence and growth in financial sponsor activity. The increase in Asset Management and Securities Services was primarily due to higher assets under management and significantly higher incentive fees, as well as significantly higher global customer balances in Securities Services. Assets under management increased $144 billion or 27% to a record $676 billion, including net asset inflows of $94 billion during 2006. 2005 versus 2004. Our net revenues were $25.24 billion in 2005, an increase of 20% compared with 2004, reflecting strong growth in Trading and Principal Investments and Asset Management and Securities Services as well as higher net revenues in Investment Banking. The increase in Trading and Principal Investments reflected significantly higher net revenues in FICC, as all major businesses performed well. During 2005, FICC operated in an environment generally characterized by strong customer driven activity, tight, but volatile, credit spreads, higher energy prices and a flatter yield curve. Net revenues in Equities also improved significantly compared with the prior year, reflecting strong performance across the business. Equities operated in an environment characterized by generally higher equity prices, improved customer driven activity and continued low levels of market volatility. Net revenues in our Principal Investments business also increased significantly, primarily reflecting a gain on our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG as well as gains from real estate principal investments. The strong net revenue growth in Asset Management and Securities Services primarily reflected higher assets under management and higher customer balances in Securities Services. The increase in Investment Banking net revenues was due to significantly higher net revenues in debt underwriting and improved results in Financial Advisory, primarily reflecting an increase in industry wide corporate activity, partially offset by lower net revenues in equity underwriting. 66 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation, headcount and levels of business activity. A substantial portion of our compensation expense represents discretionary bonuses which are significantly impacted by, among other factors, the level of net revenues, prevailing labor markets, business mix and the structure of our share based compensation programs. For 2006, our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was 43.7%. Excluding non cash expenses of $637 million related to the continued amortization of prior year share based awards held by employees that were retirement eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123 R, our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was 42.0% (1). (1) Our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues, excluding the impact of the continued amortization of these share based awards, is computed by dividing compensation and benefits, excluding the impact of the continued amortization of these prior year share based awards held by employees that were retirement eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123 R, by net revenues. We believe that presenting the ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues excluding the impact of the continued amortization of these awards enhances the comparability of period to period compensation and benefits and allows for a more meaningful representation of the relationship of current period compensation to net revenues. The following table sets forth the reconciliation of the ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues, as reported, to the ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues excluding the impact of the continued amortization of these prior year share based awards: Year Ended November 2006 ($ in millions) Compensation and benefits $ 16,457 Impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards (637 ) Compensation and benefits, excluding the impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards $ 15,820 Net revenues $ 37,665 Ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues, excluding the impact of the continued amortization of prior year share based awards 42.0% 67 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our operating expenses and number of employees: Operating Expenses and Employees ($ in millions) Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 Compensation and benefits (1) (2) $ 16,457 $ 11,758 $ 9,681 Brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees (3) 1,985 1,416 1,172 Market development 492 378 374 Communications and technology 544 490 461 Depreciation and amortization 521 501 499 Amortization of identifiable intangible assets 173 124 125 Occupancy 850 728 646 Professional fees 545 475 338 Cost of power generation (2) 406 386 372 Other expenses (3) 1,132 709 607 Total non compensation expenses 6,648 5,207 4,594 Total operating expenses $ 23,105 $ 16,965 $ 14,275 Employees at year end (4) (5) 26,467 23,623 21,736 (1) Compensation and benefits includes $259 million, $137 million and $19 million for the years ended November 2006, November 2005 and November 2004, respectively, attributable to consolidated entities held for investment purposes. Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our principal businesses. (2) Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, Cost of power generation in the consolidated statements of earnings was reclassified to operating expenses. Cost of power generation was previously reported as a reduction to revenues. Compensation and benefits includes direct employee costs associated with our consolidated power generation facilities and cost of power generation includes the other direct costs associated with these power generation facilities and related contractual assets. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation, with no impact to our reported net earnings. This reclassification increased operating expenses as follows: Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Compensation and benefits $ 78 $ 70 $ 29 Cost of power generation 406 386 372 Total $ 484 $ 456 $ 401 (3) Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, third party research and brokerage fees and asset management sales and distribution fees were reclassified from Other expenses to Brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees in the consolidated statements of earnings. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. (4) Excludes 3,868, 7,382 and 485 employees as of November 2006, November 2005 and November 2004, respectively, of consolidated entities held for investment purposes (see footnote 1 above). (5) Includes 1,326 employees as of November 2006 of Goldman Sachs consolidated property management and loan servicing subsidiaries. November 2005 and November 2004 have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation and include 1,198 and 1,014 employees, respectively. 68 Table of Contents The following table sets forth non compensation expenses of consolidated entities held for investment purposes and our remaining non compensation expenses by line item: Non Compensation Expenses (in millions) Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 Non compensation expenses of consolidated investments (1) $ 501 $ 265 $ 21 Non compensation expenses excluding consolidated investments Brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees (2) 1,985 1,416 1,172 Market development 461 361 374 Communications and technology 537 487 461 Depreciation and amortization 444 467 499 Amortization of identifiable intangible assets 169 124 125 Occupancy 738 674 646 Professional fees 534 468 338 Cost of power generation (3) 406 386 372 Other expenses (2) 873 559 586 Subtotal 6,147 4,942 4,573 Total non compensation expenses, as reported $ 6,648 $ 5,207 $ 4,594 (1) Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our principal businesses. For example, these investments include consolidated entities that hold real estate assets, such as golf courses and hotels in Asia, but exclude investments in entities that primarily hold financial assets. We believe that it is meaningful to review non compensation expenses excluding expenses related to these consolidated entities in order to evaluate trends in non compensation expenses related to our principal business activities. Revenues related to such entities are included in Trading and principal investments in the consolidated statements of earnings. (2) Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, third party research and brokerage fees and asset management sales and distribution fees were reclassified from Other expenses to Brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees in the consolidated statements of earnings. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. (3) Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, Cost of power generation in the consolidated statements of earnings was reclassified to operating expenses. Cost of power generation was previously reported as a reduction to revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation, with no impact to our reported net earnings. 69 Table of Contents 2006 versus 2005. Operating expenses were $23.11 billion for 2006, 36% higher than 2005. Compensation and benefits expenses of $16.46 billion increased 40% compared with 2005, primarily reflecting increased discretionary compensation due to higher net revenues, and increased levels of employment. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2006 was 43.7% (1) compared with 46.6% (1) for 2005. This lower ratio primarily reflected our strong net revenues in 2006. Employment levels increased 12% compared with November 2005. In the first quarter of 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 R, which requires that share based awards granted to retirement eligible employees be expensed in the year of grant. In addition to expensing current year awards, prior year awards must continue to be amortized over the relevant service period. Therefore, our compensation and benefits in 2006 included (and, to a lesser extent, 2007 and 2008 will include) both amortization of prior year share based awards held by employees that were retirement eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123 R and new awards granted to those employees. Compensation and benefits expenses in 2006 included $637 million in continued amortization of prior year awards held by employees that were retirement eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123 R. This amount represents the majority of the expense to be recognized with respect to these awards. Non compensation expenses of $6.65 billion for 2006 increased 28% compared with 2005. Excluding non compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes, non compensation expenses were 24% higher than 2005, primarily due to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees in Equities and FICC, and increased other expenses, primarily due to costs related to our insurance business, which was acquired in 2006. In addition, market development costs and professional fees were higher, reflecting increased levels of business activity, and occupancy expenses increased, primarily reflecting new office space and higher facility expenses. 2005 versus 2004. Operating expenses were $16.97 billion for 2005, 19% above 2004. Compensation and benefits expenses of $11.76 billion increased 21% compared with 2004, resulting from higher discretionary compensation, reflecting higher net revenues, and increased levels of employment. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2005 was 46.6%(1) compared with 46.2% (1) for 2004. Employment levels increased 9% compared with November 2004. Non compensation expenses of $5.21 billion for 2005 increased 13% compared with 2004. Excluding non compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes, non compensation expenses were 8% higher than 2004, primarily due to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, reflecting higher transaction volumes in FICC and Equities, and increased professional fees, reflecting higher legal and consulting fees. Non compensation expenses in 2005 included $37 million of net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings (included in other expenses) and $36 million of real estate costs associated with the relocation of office space (included in occupancy). Non compensation expenses in 2004 included $103 million of net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings, $62 million in connection with the establishment of our joint venture in China (included in market development) and $41 million of real estate exit costs associated with reductions in our office space (included in occupancy and depreciation and amortization). (1) The effect of the cost of power generation reclassification on the ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was to decrease the ratio by approximately 30 basis points, 60 basis points and 50 basis points for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. 70 Table of Contents Provision for Taxes The effective income tax rate was 34.5% for 2006, up from 32.0% for 2005. The increase in the effective income tax rate for 2006 compared with 2005 was primarily related to a reduction in the impact of permanent benefits due to higher levels of earnings in 2006 and audit settlements in 2005. The effective income tax rate for 2005 was 32.0% compared with 31.8% for 2004. Excluding the impact of audit settlements in 2005, the effective income tax rate for 2005 would have been 33.3% (1). Excluding the impact of audit settlements, the increase in the effective income tax rate for 2005 compared with 2004 was primarily due to a lower benefit from tax credits in 2005. Our effective income tax rate can vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of our earnings, the level of our tax credits and the effect of tax audits. Certain of these and other factors, including our history of pre tax earnings, are taken into account in assessing our ability to realize our net deferred tax assets. See Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our provision for taxes. (1) The effective income tax rate excluding the impact of audit settlements is calculated by dividing the provision for taxes, adjusted to exclude the impact of audit settlements, by pre tax earnings. The impact of audit settlements decreased the effective income tax rate by 1.3% for 2005. We believe that the effective income tax rate excluding the impact of audit settlements provides a meaningful basis for period to period comparisons of our effective income tax rates. 71 Table of Contents Segment Operating Results The following table sets forth the net revenues, operating expenses and pre tax earnings of our segments: Segment Operating Results (in millions) Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 Investment Banking Net revenues $ 5,629 $ 3,671 $ 3,374 Operating expenses 4,062 3,258 2,973 Pre tax earnings $ 1,567 $ 413 $ 401 Trading and Principal Net revenues (1) $ 25,562 $ 16,818 $ 13,728 Investments Operating expenses (1) 14,962 10,600 8,688 Pre tax earnings $ 10,600 $ 6,218 $ 5,040 Asset Management and Net revenues $ 6,474 $ 4,749 $ 3,849 Securities Services Operating expenses 4,036 3,070 2,430 Pre tax earnings $ 2,438 $ 1,679 $ 1,419 Total Net revenues (1) $ 37,665 $ 25,238 $ 20,951 Operating expenses (1) (2) 23,105 16,965 14,275 Pre tax earnings $ 14,560 $ 8,273 $ 6,676 (1) Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, Cost of power generation in the consolidated statements of earnings was reclassified to operating expenses. Cost of power generation was previously reported as a reduction to revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation, with no impact to our reported pre tax earnings. (2) Includes the following expenses that have not been allocated to our segments: (i) net provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings of $45 million, $37 million and $103 million for the years ended November 2006, November 2005 and November 2004, respectively; (ii) $62 million in connection with the establishment of our joint venture in China for the year ended November 2004; and (iii) the amortization of employee initial public offering awards, net of forfeitures, of $19 million for the year ended November 2004. Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest income and interest expense to specific securities, commodities and other positions in relation to the cash generated by, or funding requirements of, such underlying positions. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our segments. The cost drivers of Goldman Sachs taken as a whole compensation, headcount and levels of business activity are broadly similar in each of our business segments. Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of Goldman Sachs as well as the performance of individual business units. Consequently, pre tax margins in one segment of our business may be significantly affected by the performance of our other business segments. A discussion of segment operating results follows. 72 Table of Contents Investment Banking Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components: Financial Advisory. Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities, restructurings and spin offs. Underwriting. Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of a wide range of securities and other financial instruments. The following table sets forth the operating results of our Investment Banking segment: Investment Banking Operating Results (in millions) Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 Financial Advisory $ 2,580 $ 1,905 $ 1,737 Equity underwriting 1,365 704 819 Debt underwriting 1,684 1,062 818 Total Underwriting 3,049 1,766 1,637 Total net revenues 5,629 3,671 3,374 Operating expenses 4,062 3,258 2,973 Pre tax earnings $ 1,567 $ 413 $ 401 The following table sets forth our financial advisory and underwriting transaction volumes: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Banking Volumes (1) (in billions) Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 Announced mergers and acquisitions $ 1,112 $ 807 $ 395 Completed mergers and acquisitions 858 588 503 Equity and equity related offerings (2) 76 49 54 Debt offerings (3) 302 270 236 (1) Source: Thomson Financial. Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity related offerings and debt offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. (2) Includes public common stock offerings, convertible offerings, rights offerings and Rule 144A issues. (3) Includes non convertible preferred stock, mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities and taxable municipal debt. Includes publicly registered and Rule 144A issues. 2006 versus 2005. Net revenues in Investment Banking of $5.63 billion for 2006 increased 53% compared with 2005. Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $2.58 billion increased 35% compared with 2005, primarily reflecting strong growth in industry wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our Underwriting business of $3.05 billion increased 73% compared with 2005. Net revenues were significantly higher in equity underwriting, reflecting increased client 73 Table of Contents activity. Net revenues were also significantly higher in debt underwriting, primarily due to a significant increase in leveraged finance activity and, to a lesser extent, an increase in investment grade activity. Our investment banking backlog at the end of 2006 was at its highest level since 2000. (1) Operating expenses of $4.06 billion for 2006 increased 25% compared with 2005, substantially all of which was due to increased compensation and benefits expenses resulting from higher levels of discretionary compensation. Pre tax earnings were $1.57 billion in 2006 compared with $413 million in 2005. 2005 versus 2004. Net revenues in Investment Banking of $3.67 billion for 2005 increased 9% compared with 2004. Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $1.91 billion increased 10% compared with 2004, primarily reflecting an increase in industry wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our Underwriting business of $1.77 billion increased 8% compared with 2004, reflecting higher net revenues in debt underwriting, primarily due to an increase in leveraged finance and mortgage activity, partially offset by lower net revenues in equity underwriting. Our investment banking backlog at the end of 2005 was significantly higher than at the end of 2004. (1) Operating expenses of $3.26 billion for 2005 increased 10% compared with 2004, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses resulting from higher levels of discretionary compensation and increased amortization expense related to prior year equity awards. In addition, professional fees were higher, principally due to increased legal and consulting fees. Pre tax earnings of $413 million in 2005 increased 3% compared with 2004. Trading and Principal Investments Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into three components: FICC. We make markets in and trade interest rate and credit products, mortgage related securities and loan products, currencies and commodities, structure and enter into a wide variety of derivative transactions and engage in proprietary trading and investing. Equities. We make markets in, trade and act as a specialist for equities and equity related products, structure and enter into equity derivative transactions and engage in proprietary trading and insurance activities. We also execute and clear client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. Principal Investments. We make real estate and corporate principal investments, including our investments in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG and the ordinary shares of ICBC. We generate net revenues from returns on these investments and from the increased share of the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds when the return on a funds investments, over the life of the fund, exceeds certain threshold returns (overrides). Substantially all of our inventory is marked to market daily and, therefore, its value and our net revenues are subject to fluctuations based on market movements. In addition, net revenues derived from our principal investments in privately held concerns and in real estate may fluctuate significantly depending on the revaluation or sale of these investments in any given period. We also regularly enter into large transactions as part of our trading businesses. The number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. Net revenues from Principal Investments do not include management fees generated from our merchant banking funds. These management fees are included in the net revenues of the Asset Management and Securities Services segment. (1) Our investment banking backlog represents an estimate of our future net revenues from investment banking transactions where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than not. 74 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the operating results of our Trading and Principal Investments segment: Trading and Principal Investments Operating Results (in millions) Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 FICC (1) $ 14,262 $ 8,940 $ 7,723 Equities trading 4,965 2,675 1,969 Equities commissions 3,518 2,975 2,704 Total Equities 8,483 5,650 4,673 SMFG 527 1,475 771 ICBC 937 Gross gains 1,534 767 855 Gross losses (2) (585 ) (198 ) (399 ) Net other corporate and real estate investments 949 569 456 Overrides 404 184 105 Total Principal Investments 2,817 2,228 1,332 Total net revenues (1) 25,562 16,818 13,728 Operating expenses (1) 14,962 10,600 8,688 Pre tax earnings $ 10,600 $ 6,218 $ 5,040 (1) Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, Cost of power generation in the consolidated statements of earnings was reclassified to operating expenses. Cost of power generation was previously reported as a reduction to revenues. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation, with no impact to our reported pre tax earnings. (2) A substantial portion relates to interest expense on our principal investments. 2006 versus 2005. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments of $25.56 billion for 2006 increased 52% compared with 2005. Net revenues in FICC of $14.26 billion increased 60% compared with 2005, primarily due to significantly higher net revenues in credit products (which includes distressed investing) and commodities. In addition, net revenues were higher in interest rate products, currencies and mortgages. During 2006, the business operated in an environment characterized by strong customer driven activity and favorable market opportunities. In addition, corporate credit spreads tightened, the yield curve flattened and volatility levels were generally low in interest rate and currency markets. Net revenues in Equities of $8.48 billion increased 50% compared with 2005, primarily reflecting significantly higher net revenues in derivatives, across all regions, as well as higher net revenues in shares. The increase also reflected the contribution from our insurance business, which was acquired in 2006. In addition, principal strategies performed well, although net revenues were lower than a particularly strong 2005. During 2006, Equities operated in a favorable environment characterized by strong customer driven activity, generally higher equity prices and favorable market opportunities, although volatility levels were generally low. Principal Investments recorded net revenues of $2.82 billion, reflecting a $937 million gain related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a $527 million gain related to our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG and $1.35 billion in gains and overrides from other principal investments. 75 Table of Contents Operating expenses of $14.96 billion for 2006 increased 41% compared with 2005, due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, primarily resulting from higher levels of discretionary compensation due to higher net revenues and increased levels of employment, as well as higher non compensation expenses. Excluding non compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes, the increase in non compensation expenses was primarily due to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, in Equities and FICC, and increased other expenses, primarily due to costs related to our insurance business, which was acquired in 2006, and higher levels of business activity. In addition, professional fees were higher, due to increased legal and consulting fees. Pre tax earnings of $10.60 billion in 2006 increased 70% compared with 2005. 2005 versus 2004. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments of $16.82 billion for 2005 increased 23% compared with 2004. Net revenues in FICC of $8.94 billion increased 16% compared with 2004, primarily reflecting significantly higher net revenues in credit products (which includes distressed investing) and, to a lesser extent, interest rate products and currencies. Net revenues in commodities and mortgages were strong, but essentially unchanged compared with 2004. During 2005, FICC operated in an environment generally characterized by strong customer driven activity, tight, but volatile, credit spreads, higher energy prices and a flatter yield curve. Net revenues in Equities of $5.65 billion increased 21% compared with 2004, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in our customer franchise and principal strategies businesses. The increase in our customer franchise business reflected improved results in derivatives and shares, particularly in Europe and Asia, as well as in convertibles. In addition, results in principal strategies reflected strength across all regions. During 2005, Equities operated in an environment characterized by generally higher equity prices, improved customer driven activity and continued low levels of market volatility. Principal Investments recorded net revenues of $2.23 billion, due to a $1.48 billion gain related to our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG and $753 million in gains and overrides from other corporate and, to a lesser extent, real estate principal investments. Operating expenses of $10.60 billion for 2005 increased 22% compared with 2004, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, reflecting higher discretionary compensation and increased levels of employment and, to a lesser extent, higher non compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes. Excluding non compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes, the increase in non compensation expenses was primarily attributable to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, principally due to increased transaction volumes in FICC and Equities, and higher professional fees, due to increased legal and consulting fees. Pre tax earnings of $6.22 billion in 2005 increased 23% compared with 2004. Asset Management and Securities Services Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided into two components: Asset Management. Asset Management provides investment advisory and financial planning services and offers investment products (primarily through separate accounts and funds) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and primarily generates revenues in the form of management and incentive fees. Securities Services. Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing services and securities lending services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high net worth individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the form of interest rate spreads or fees. 76 Table of Contents Assets under management typically generate fees as a percentage of asset value. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a funds return or when the return on assets under management exceeds specified benchmark returns or other performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when the performance period ends and they are no longer subject to adjustment. We have numerous incentive fee arrangements, many of which have annual performance periods that end on December 31. For that reason, incentive fees have been seasonally weighted to our first quarter. Based on investment performance in calendar 2006, our incentive fees will be significantly lower in fiscal 2007 than they were in fiscal 2006. The following table sets forth the operating results of our Asset Management and Securities Services segment: Asset Management and Securities Services Operating Results (in millions) Year Ended November 2006 2005 2004 Management and other fees $ 3,332 $ 2,629 $ 2,219 Incentive fees 962 327 334 Total Asset Management 4,294 2,956 2,553 Securities Services 2,180 1,793 1,296 Total net revenues 6,474 4,749 3,849 Operating expenses 4,036 3,070 2,430 Pre tax earnings $ 2,438 $ 1,679 $ 1,419 Assets under management include our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors. Substantially all assets under management are valued as of calendar month end. The following table sets forth our assets under management by asset class: Assets Under Management by Asset Class (1) (in billions) As of November 30 2006 2005 2004 Alternative investments (2) $ 145 $ 110 $ 95 Equity 215 167 133 Fixed income 198 154 134 Total non money market assets 558 431 362 Money markets 118 101 90 Total assets under management $ 676 $ 532 $ 452 (1) In the first quarter of 2006, we changed the methodology for classifying certain non money market assets. The changes were made primarily to reclassify certain assets allocated to external investment managers out of alternative investment assets and to reclassify currency funds into alternative investment assets. The changes did not impact total assets under management and prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. (2) Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies. 77 Table of Contents The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in our assets under management: Changes in Assets Under Management (in billions) Year Ended November 30 2006 2005 2004 Balance, beginning of year $ 532 $ 452 $ 373 Net asset inflows/ (outflows) Alternative investments 32 11 27 Equity 16 25 13 Fixed income 29 16 11 Total non money market net asset inflows/ (outflows) 77 52 51 Money markets 17 (1) 11 1 Total net asset inflows/ (outflows) 94 (2) 63 52 Net market appreciation/ (depreciation) 50 17 27 Balance, end of year $ 676 $ 532 $ 452 (1) Net of $8 billion transferred from assets under management to interest bearing deposits at Goldman Sachs Bank USA, a wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. These deposits are not included in assets under management. (2) Includes $3 billion of net asset inflows in connection with our December 30, 2005 acquisition of the variable annuity and variable life insurance business of The Hanover Insurance Group, Inc. 2006 versus 2005. Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services of $6.47 billion for 2006 increased 36% compared with 2005. Asset Management net revenues of $4.29 billion increased 45% compared with 2005, reflecting significantly higher management and other fees, principally due to strong growth in assets under management, and significantly higher incentive fees. During the year, assets under management increased $144 billion or 27% to $676 billion, reflecting non money market net asset inflows of $77 billion, spread across all asset classes, money market net asset inflows of $17 billion (1), and market appreciation of $50 billion, primarily in equity and fixed income assets. Securities Services net revenues of $2.18 billion increased 22% compared with 2005, as our prime brokerage business continued to generate strong results, primarily reflecting significantly higher global customer balances in securities lending and margin lending. Operating expenses of $4.04 billion for 2006 increased 31% compared with 2005, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from higher levels of discretionary compensation due to higher net revenues, and increased levels of employment. Non compensation expenses also increased, primarily due to higher distribution fees (included in brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees). In addition, market development costs were higher, reflecting increased levels of business activity. Pre tax earnings of $2.44 billion increased 45% compared with 2005. (1) Net of $8 billion transferred from assets under management to interest bearing deposits at Goldman Sachs Bank USA, a wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. These deposits are not included in assets under management. 78 Table of Contents 2005 versus 2004. Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services of $4.75 billion for 2005 increased 23% compared with 2004. Asset Management net revenues of $2.96 billion increased 16% compared with 2004, primarily due to higher management fees, driven by growth in assets under management. During 2005, assets under management increased 18% to $532 billion, reflecting net asset inflows of $63 billion across all asset classes as well as market appreciation of $17 billion, primarily in equity assets. Securities Services net revenues of $1.79 billion for 2005 increased 38% compared with 2004, primarily reflecting significantly higher global customer balances in securities lending and margin lending. Operating expenses of $3.07 billion for 2005 increased 26% compared with 2004, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses resulting from higher discretionary compensation and increased levels of employment. Other expenses also increased and professional fees were higher, principally due to increased consulting and legal fees. Pre tax earnings of $1.68 billion increased 18% compared with 2004. Geographic Data For a summary of the net revenues and pre tax earnings of Goldman Sachs by geographic region, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have various types of off balance sheet arrangements that we enter into in the ordinary course of business. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many different forms, including purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in mortgage backed and other asset backed securitization vehicles; holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and general partnerships, and preferred and common stock in other nonconsolidated vehicles; entering into interest rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit derivatives, including total return swaps; entering into operating leases; and providing guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments, letters of credit, representations and warranties. We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes, primarily related to the securitization of commercial and residential mortgages, home equity and auto loans, government and corporate bonds, and other types of financial assets. Other reasons for entering into these arrangements include underwriting client securitization transactions; providing secondary market liquidity; making investments in performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real estate and other assets; providing investors with credit linked and asset repackaged notes; and receiving or providing letters of credit to satisfy margin requirements and to facilitate the clearance and settlement process. We engage in transactions with variable interest entities (VIEs) and qualifying special purpose entities (QSPEs). Such vehicles are critical to the functioning of several significant investor markets, including the mortgage backed and other asset backed securities markets, since they provide market liquidity to financial assets by offering investors access to specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization process. Our financial interests in, and derivative transactions with, such nonconsolidated entities are accounted for at fair value, in the same manner as our other financial instruments, except in cases where we apply the equity method of accounting. 79 Table of Contents The following table sets forth where a discussion of these and other off balance sheet arrangements may be found in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K: Type of Off Balance Sheet Arrangement Disclosure in Annual Report on Form 10 K Retained interests or contingent interests in assets transferred by us to nonconsolidated entities See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. Leases, letters of credit, and loans and other commitments See Contractual Obligations and Commitments below and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. Guarantees See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. Other obligations, including contingent obligations, arising out of variable interests we have in nonconsolidated entities See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. Derivative contracts See Critical Accounting Policies above and Risk Management below and Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for a discussion of our consolidation policies. Equity Capital The level and composition of our equity capital are principally determined by our consolidated regulatory capital requirements, subsidiary capital requirements and rating agency guidelines. The equity capital we hold may also be influenced by the business environment, conditions in the financial markets and an assessment of potential future losses during an extremely adverse business and market environment. As of November 2006, our total shareholders equity was $35.79 billion (consisting of common shareholders equity of $32.69 billion and preferred stock of $3.10 billion) compared with total shareholders equity of $28.00 billion as of November 2005 (consisting of common shareholders equity of $26.25 billion and preferred stock of $1.75 billion). In addition to total shareholders equity, we consider the $2.75 billion of junior subordinated debt issued to a trust (see below) part of our equity capital, as it qualifies as capital for regulatory and certain rating agency purposes. Consolidated Regulatory Capital Requirements During 2005, Goldman Sachs became regulated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as a Consolidated Supervised Entity (CSE). As such, Goldman Sachs is subject to group wide supervision and examination by the SEC and to minimum capital adequacy standards on a consolidated basis. Minimum capital adequacy standards are principally driven by the amount of our market risk, credit risk and operational risk as calculated by methodologies approved by the SEC. Eligible sources of regulatory capital include common equity and certain types of preferred stock, debt and hybrid instruments, including our junior subordinated debt issued to a trust. The recognition of preferred stock, debt and hybrid instruments as regulatory capital is subject to limitations. Goldman Sachs was in compliance with the CSE capital adequacy standards as of November 2006 and November 2005. 80 Table of Contents Subsidiary Capital Requirements Many of our principal subsidiaries are subject to separate regulation and capital requirements in the United States and or elsewhere. Goldman, Sachs & Co. and Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P. are registered U.S. broker dealers and futures commissions merchants, and their primary regulators include the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Chicago Board of Trade, the NYSE, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and the National Futures Association. Goldman Sachs International, our regulated U.K. broker dealer, is subject to regulation primarily by the U.K.s Financial Services Authority. Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese broker dealer, is subject to regulation by Japans Financial Services Agency. Prior to October 1, 2006, Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd. (GSJL), the predecessor to GSJCL, was our primary regulated subsidiary based in Japan. Several other subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs are regulated by securities, investment advisory, banking, and other regulators and authorities around the world, such as the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and the Bundesbank in Germany, Banque de France and the Autorit des Marchs Financiers in France, Banca dItalia and the Commissione Nazionale per le Societ e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy, the Swiss Federal Banking Commission, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the China Securities Regulatory Commission. Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank), a wholly owned industrial bank, is regulated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the State of Utah Department of Financial Institutions and is subject to minimum capital requirements. As of November 2006 and November 2005, these subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital requirements. As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based upon its underlying risk. For a discussion of our potential inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, see Liquidity and Funding Risk Conservative Liability Structure below. Equity investments in subsidiaries are generally funded with parent company equity capital. As of November 2006, Group Inc.s equity investment in subsidiaries was $32.58 billion compared with its total shareholders equity of $35.79 billion. Our capital invested in non U.S. subsidiaries is generally exposed to foreign exchange risk, substantially all of which is managed primarily through the use of derivative contracts. In addition, we generally manage the non trading exposure to foreign exchange risk that arises from transactions denominated in currencies other than the transacting entitys functional currency. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our regulated subsidiaries. 81 Table of Contents Rating Agency Guidelines The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the obligations of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., which directly issues or guarantees substantially all of Goldman Sachs senior unsecured obligations. The level and composition of our equity capital are among the many factors considered in determining our credit ratings. Each agency has its own definition of eligible capital and methodology for evaluating capital adequacy, and assessments are generally based on a combination of factors rather than a single calculation. See Liquidity and Funding Risk Credit Ratings below for further information regarding our credit ratings. Equity Capital Management Our objective is to maintain a sufficient level and optimize the composition of our equity capital. We manage our capital through repurchases of our common stock and issuances of preferred stock, junior subordinated debt issued to a trust and subordinated debt. Share Repurchase Program. We use our share repurchase program to help maintain the appropriate level of common equity and to substantially offset increases in share count over time resulting from employee share based compensation. The repurchase program is effected primarily through regular open market purchases and is influenced by our overall capital position (the comparison of our capital requirements to our available capital), general market conditions and the prevailing price and trading volumes of our common stock. The following table sets forth the level of share repurchases for the years ended November 2006 and November 2005: As of November 2006 2005 (in millions, except per share amounts) Number of shares repurchased 50.23 63.73 Total cost $ 7,817 $ 7,108 Average cost per share $ 155.64 $ 111.57 As of November 2006, we were authorized to repurchase up to 52.6 million additional shares of common stock pursuant to our repurchase program. For additional information on our repurchase program, see Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities in Part II, Item 5 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. 82 Table of Contents Preferred Stock. During 2006, Goldman Sachs issued 54,000 shares of perpetual Floating Rate Non Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D. As of November 2006, Goldman Sachs had 124,000 shares of perpetual non cumulative preferred stock outstanding in four series as set forth in the following table: Preferred Stock by Series Shares Shares Earliest Redemption Value Series Issued Authorized Dividend Rate Redemption Date (in millions) A 30,000 50,000 3 month LIBOR + 0.75%, with floor of 3.75% per annum April 25, 2010 $ 750 B 32,000 50,000 6.20% per annum October 31, 2010 800 C 8,000 25,000 3 month LIBOR + 0.75%, with floor of 4% per annum October 31, 2010 200 D 54,000 60,000 3 month LIBOR + 0.67%, with floor of 4% per annum May 24, 2011 1,350 124,000 185,000 $ 3,100 Each share of preferred stock has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation preference of $25,000, is represented by 1,000 depositary shares and is redeemable at our option at a redemption price equal to $25,000 plus declared and unpaid dividends. Dividends on each series of preferred stock, if declared, are payable quarterly in arrears. Our ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, our common stock is subject to certain restrictions in the event that we fail to pay or set aside full dividends on our preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period. All preferred stock also has a preference over our common stock upon liquidation. Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust. As of November 2006, we had outstanding junior subordinated debt issued to a trust of $2.75 billion, included in Unsecured long term borrowings on the consolidated statements of financial condition. The inherent characteristics of these securities, including the long term nature of the securities, our ability to defer coupon interest for up to ten consecutive semiannual periods and the subordinated nature of the obligations in our capital structure, are such that they qualify as regulatory capital for CSE purposes, and thus, are part of our equity capital. Subordinated Debt. Although not part of our shareholders equity, subordinated debt may be used to meet a portion of our consolidated minimum capital requirements as a CSE. As of November 2006, we had outstanding subordinated debt of $4.67 billion. 83 Table of Contents Capital Ratios and Metrics The following table sets forth information on our assets, shareholders equity, leverage ratios and book value per common share: As of November 2006 2005 ($ in millions, except per share amounts) Total assets $ 838,201 $ 706,804 Adjusted assets (1) 541,033 466,500 Total shareholders equity 35,786 28,002 Tangible equity capital (2) 33,517 26,030 Leverage ratio (3) 23.4 x 25.2 x Adjusted leverage ratio (4) 16.1 x 17.9 x Debt to equity ratio (5) 3.4 x 3.0 x Common shareholders equity 32,686 26,252 Tangible common shareholders equity (6) 27,667 21,530 Book value per common share (7) $ 72.62 $ 57.02 Tangible book value per common share (8) 61.47 46.76 (1) Adjusted assets excludes (i) low risk collateralized assets generally associated with our matched book and securities lending businesses (which we calculate by adding our securities borrowed and financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell, and then subtracting our nonderivative short positions), (ii) cash and securities we segregate for regulatory and other purposes and (iii) goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. In 2006, we amended our calculation of adjusted assets. We no longer deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total assets. We amended our calculation in order to be consistent with the calculation of tangible equity capital and the adjusted leverage ratio (see footnote 2 below). Prior periods have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of total assets to adjusted assets: As of November 2006 2005 (in millions) Total assets $ 838,201 $ 706,804 Deduct: Securities borrowed (219,342 ) (191,800 ) Financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell (82,126 ) (83,619 ) Add: Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value 155,805 149,071 Less derivative liabilities (65,496 ) (57,829 ) Subtotal 90,309 91,242 Deduct: Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes (80,990 ) (51,405 ) Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts (5,019 ) (4,722 ) Adjusted assets $ 541,033 $ 466,500 (2) Tangible equity capital equals total shareholders equity and junior subordinated debt issued to a trust less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. In 2006, we amended our calculation of tangible equity capital. We no longer deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total shareholders equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common shareholders equity. Prior periods have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation. We consider junior subordinated debt issued to a trust to be a component of our tangible equity capital base due to the inherent characteristics of these securities, including the long term nature of the securities, our ability to defer coupon interest for up to ten consecutive semiannual periods and the subordinated nature of the obligations in our capital structure. 84 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total shareholders equity to tangible equity capital: As of November 2006 2005 (in millions) Total shareholders equity $ 35,786 $ 28,002 Add: Junior subordinated debt issued to a trust 2,750 2,750 Deduct: Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts (5,019 ) (4,722 ) Tangible equity capital $ 33,517 $ 26,030 (3) Leverage ratio equals total assets divided by total shareholders equity. (4) Adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible equity capital. We believe that the adjusted leverage ratio is a more meaningful measure of our capital adequacy than the leverage ratio because it excludes certain low risk collateralized assets that are generally supported with little or no capital and reflects the tangible equity capital deployed in our businesses. (5) Debt to equity ratio equals unsecured long term borrowings divided by total shareholders equity. (6) Tangible common shareholders equity equals total shareholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. In 2006, we amended our calculation of tangible common shareholders equity. We no longer deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total shareholders equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common shareholders equity. Prior periods have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation. The following table sets forth a reconciliation of total shareholders equity to tangible common shareholders equity: As of November 2006 2005 (in millions) Total shareholders equity $ 35,786 $ 28,002 Deduct: Preferred stock (3,100 ) (1,750 ) Common shareholders equity 32,686 26,252 Deduct: Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts (5,019 ) (4,722 ) Tangible common shareholders equity $ 27,667 $ 21,530 (7) Book value per common share is based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 450.1 million and 460.4 million as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively. (8) Tangible book value per common share is computed by dividing tangible common shareholders equity by the number of common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements. 85 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments Goldman Sachs has contractual obligations to make future payments related to our unsecured long term borrowings, secured long term financings, long term noncancelable lease agreements and purchase obligations and has commitments under a variety of commercial arrangements. The following table sets forth our contractual obligations by fiscal maturity date as of November 2006: Contractual Obligations (in millions) 2008 2010 2012 2007 2009 2011 Thereafter Total Unsecured long term borrowings (1)(2)(3) $ $ 33,262 $ 20,043 $ 69,537 $122,842 Secured long term financings (1)(2)(4) 6,412 6,999 12,723 26,134 Minimum rental payments 564 758 535 2,195 4,052 Purchase obligations (5) 1,448 535 18 18 2,019 (1) Obligations maturing within one year of our financial statement date or redeemable within one year of our financial statement date at the option of the holder are excluded from this table and are treated as short term obligations. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our secured financings. (2) Obligations that are repayable prior to maturity at the option of Goldman Sachs are reflected at their contractual maturity dates. Obligations that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder are reflected at the dates such options become exercisable. (3) Includes $7.25 billion of hybrid financial instruments accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 155 as of November 2006. (4) Included in Other secured financings in the consolidated statements of financial condition. (5) Primarily includes construction related obligations. As of November 2006, our unsecured long term borrowings were $122.84 billion and consisted principally of senior borrowings with maturities extending to 2036. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our unsecured long term borrowings. As of November 2006, our future minimum rental payments, net of minimum sublease rentals, under noncancelable leases were $4.05 billion. These lease commitments, principally for office space, expire on various dates through 2069. Certain agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for increases in real estate taxes and other charges. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our leases. Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our current and future space capacity in relation to current and projected staffing levels. We may incur exit costs in 2007 and thereafter to the extent we (i) reduce our space capacity or (ii) commit to, or occupy, new properties in the locations in which we operate and, consequently, dispose of existing space that had been held for potential growth. These exit costs may be material to our results of operations in a given period. As of November 2006 and November 2005, we had construction related obligations of $1.63 billion and $579 million, respectively, including purchase obligations of $1.07 billion and 86 Table of Contents $481 million, respectively, related to the development of wind energy projects. Construction related obligations also include outstanding purchase obligations of $500 million and $47 million as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, related to our new world headquarters in New York City, which is expected to cost between $2.3 billion and $2.5 billion. The following table sets forth our commitments as of November 2006: Commitments (in millions) Commitment Amount by Fiscal Period of Expiration 2008 2010 2012 2007 2009 2011 Thereafter Total Commitments to extend credit William Street program $ 1,540 $ 2,664 $ 13,442 $ 1,185 $ 18,831 Other commercial lending: Investment grade 4,606 1,463 1,535 7,604 Non investment grade 2,437 11,999 30,415 12,166 57,017 Warehouse financing 15,488 1,538 17,026 Total commitments to extend credit 24,071 17,664 45,392 13,351 100,478 Forward starting resale and securities borrowing agreements 18,285 18,285 Forward starting repurchase and securities lending agreements 17,148 17,148 Commitments under letters of credit issued by banks to counterparties 5,714 4 1 15 5,734 Merchant banking commitments 4,058 457 487 1,353 6,355 Underwriting commitments 2,620 2,620 Other investment commitments 356 1,201 143 182 1,882 Total $ 72,252 $ 19,326 $ 46,023 $ 14,901 $ 152,502 Our commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to counterparties that have fixed termination dates and are contingent on the satisfaction of all conditions to borrowing set forth in the contract. In connection with our lending activities, we had outstanding commitments to extend credit of $100.48 billion as of November 2006 compared with $61.12 billion as of November 2005. Since these commitments may expire unused or be reduced or cancelled at the counterpartys request, the total commitment amount does not necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow requirements. Our commercial lending commitments outside the William Street credit extension program are generally extended in connection with contingent acquisition financing and other types of corporate lending. We may seek to reduce our credit risk on these commitments by syndicating all or substantial portions of commitments to other investors. In addition, commitments that are extended for contingent acquisition financing are often short term in nature, as borrowers often replace them with other funding sources. Substantially all of the commitments provided under the William Street credit extension program are to investment grade corporate borrowers. Commitments under the program are primarily extended by William Street Commitment Corporation (Commitment Corp.), a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets and liabilities are legally separated from other assets 87 Table of Contents and liabilities of Goldman Sachs, and, to a lesser extent, by William Street Credit Corporation, another consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. A majority of the commitments extended by Commitment Corp. are supported by funding raised by William Street Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.), another consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Group Inc. whose assets and liabilities are also legally separated from other assets and liabilities of Goldman Sachs. With respect to substantially all of the William Street commitments, SMFG provides us with credit loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of the first loss we realize on approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will provide protection for 70% of the second loss on such commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion. We also use other financial instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William Street commitments not covered by SMFG. Our commitments to extend credit also include financing for the warehousing of financial assets to be securitized, primarily in connection with collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) and mortgage securitizations, which are expected to be repaid from the proceeds of the related securitizations for which we may or may not act as underwriter. These arrangements are secured by the warehoused assets, primarily consisting of mortgage backed and other asset backed securities, residential and commercial mortgages and corporate debt instruments. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our commitments, contingencies and guarantees. Risk Management Management believes that effective risk management is of primary importance to the success of Goldman Sachs. Accordingly, we have a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks we assume in conducting our activities. These risks include market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and reputational exposures. Risk Management Structure We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. In addition, a number of committees are responsible for monitoring risk exposures and for general oversight of our risk management process, as described further below. These committees (including their subcommittees), meet regularly and consist of senior members of both our revenue producing units and departments that are independent of our revenue producing units. Segregation of duties and management oversight are fundamental elements of our risk management process. In addition to the committees described below, functions that are independent of the revenue producing units, such as Compliance, Finance, Legal, Management Controls (Internal Audit) and Operations, perform risk management functions, which include monitoring, analyzing and evaluating risk. Management Committee. All risk control functions ultimately report to our Management Committee. Through both direct and delegated authority, the Management Committee approves all of our operating activities, trading risk parameters and customer review guidelines. Risk Committees. The Firmwide Risk Committee reviews the activities of existing businesses, approves new businesses and products, approves firmwide and divisional market risk limits, reviews business unit market risk limits, approves market risk limits for selected sovereign markets and business units, approves sovereign credit risk limits and credit risk limits by ratings group, and reviews scenario analyses based on abnormal or catastrophic market movements. 88 Table of Contents The Divisional Risk Committee sets market risk limits for our trading activities subject to overall firmwide risk limits, based on a number of measures, including Value at Risk (VaR), stress tests and scenario analyses. Several other committees oversee various risk, valuation, operational, credit and business practice issues related to our asset management business. Business unit risk limits are established by the various risk committees and may be further allocated by the business unit managers to individual trading desks. Trading desk managers have the first line of responsibility for managing risk within prescribed limits. These managers have in depth knowledge of the primary sources of risk in their respective markets and the instruments available to hedge their exposures. Market risk limits are monitored by the Finance Division and are reviewed regularly by the appropriate risk committee. Limit violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee and business unit managers and addressed, as necessary. Credit risk limits are also monitored by the Finance Division and reviewed by the appropriate risk committee. Business Practices Committee. The Business Practices Committee assists senior management in its oversight of compliance, legal and operational risks and related reputational concerns, such as potential conflicts of interest. The Business Practices Committee also reviews Goldman Sachs business practices, policies, and procedures for consistency with our business principles. The Business Practices Committee reviews these areas and makes recommendations for improvements as necessary to mitigate potential risks and assist in achieving adherence to our business principles. Firmwide Capital Committee. The Firmwide Capital Committee reviews and approves transactions involving commitments of our capital. Such capital commitments include, but are not limited to, extensions of credit, alternative liquidity commitments, certain bond underwritings and certain distressed debt and principal finance activities. The Firmwide Capital Committee is also responsible for establishing business and reputational standards for capital commitments and ensuring that they are maintained on a global basis. Commitments Committee. The Commitments Committee reviews and approves underwriting and distribution activities, primarily with respect to offerings of equity and equity related securities, and sets and maintains policies and procedures designed to ensure that legal, reputational, regulatory and business standards are maintained in conjunction with these activities. In addition to reviewing specific transactions, the Commitments Committee periodically conducts strategic reviews of industry sectors and products and establishes policies in connection with transaction practices. Credit Policy Committee. The Credit Policy Committee establishes and reviews broad credit policies and parameters that are implemented by the Credit Department. Finance Committee. The Finance Committee establishes and oversees our liquidity policies, sets certain inventory position limits and has oversight responsibility for liquidity risk, the size and composition of our balance sheet and capital base, and our credit ratings. The Finance Committee regularly reviews our funding position and capitalization and makes adjustments in light of current events, risks and exposures. New Products Committee. The New Products Committee, under the oversight of the Firmwide Risk Committee, is responsible for reviewing and approving new products and businesses globally. Operational Risk Committee. The Operational Risk Committee provides oversight of the ongoing development and implementation of our operational risk policies, framework and methodologies, and monitors the effectiveness of operational risk management. Structured Products Committee. The Structured Products Committee reviews and approves structured product transactions entered into with our clients that raise legal, regulatory, tax or accounting issues or present reputational risk to Goldman Sachs. 89 Table of Contents Market Risk The potential for changes in the market value of our trading and investing positions is referred to as market risk. Such positions result from market making, specialist, proprietary trading and investing, and underwriting activities. Categories of market risk include exposures to interest rates, equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. A description of each market risk category is set forth below: Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads. Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices. Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates. Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, such as electricity, natural gas, crude oil, petroleum products, and precious and base metals. We seek to manage these risks by diversifying exposures, controlling position sizes and establishing economic hedges in related securities or derivatives. For example, we may hedge a portfolio of common stocks by taking an offsetting position in a related equity index futures contract. The ability to manage an exposure may, however, be limited by adverse changes in the liquidity of the security or the related hedge instrument and in the correlation of price movements between the security and related hedge instrument. In addition to applying business judgment, senior management uses a number of quantitative tools to manage our exposure to market risk for our long and short financial instruments. These tools include: risk limits based on a summary measure of market risk exposure referred to as VaR; scenario analyses, stress tests and other analytical tools that measure the potential effects on our trading net revenues of various market events, including, but not limited to, a large widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equity markets and significant moves in selected emerging markets; and inventory position limits for selected business units. VaR VaR is the potential loss in value of Goldman Sachs trading positions due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a specified confidence level. For the VaR numbers reported below, a one day time horizon and a 95% confidence level were used. This means that there is a 1 in 20 chance that daily trading net revenues will fall below the expected daily trading net revenues by an amount at least as large as the reported VaR. Thus, shortfalls from expected trading net revenues on a single trading day greater than the reported VaR would be anticipated to occur, on average, about once a month. Shortfalls on a single day can exceed reported VaR by significant amounts. Shortfalls can also accumulate over a longer time horizon such as a number of consecutive trading days. The modeling of the risk characteristics of our trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. While management believes that these assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no standard methodology for estimating VaR, and different assumptions and or approximations could produce materially different VaR estimates. 90 Table of Contents We use historical data to estimate our VaR and, to better reflect current asset volatilities, we generally weight historical data to give greater importance to more recent observations. Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. An inherent limitation of VaR is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. Different VaR methodologies and distributional assumptions could produce a materially different VaR. Moreover, VaR calculated for a one day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges within one day. Changes in VaR between reporting periods are generally due to changes in levels of exposure, volatilities and or correlations among asset classes. The following tables set forth the daily VaR: Average Daily VaR (1) (in millions) Year Ended November Risk Categories 2006 2005 2004 Interest rates $ 49 $ 37 $ 36 Equity prices 72 34 32 Currency rates 21 17 20 Commodity prices 30 26 20 Diversification effect (2) (71 ) (44 ) (41 ) Total $ 101 $ 70 $ 67 (1) Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, we excluded from our calculation of VaR certain equity positions generally due to their transfer restrictions or illiquidity. The effect of excluding these positions was not material to prior periods and, accordingly, such periods have not been adjusted. For a further discussion of the market risk associated with these positions, see Other Market Risk Measures below. (2) Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. Our average daily VaR increased to $101 million in 2006 from $70 million in 2005. We increased our level of exposure across all risk categories, particularly equity prices and interest rates. Our average daily VaR increased to $70 million in 2005 from $67 million in 2004. The increase was primarily due to higher levels of exposure to commodity prices, equity prices and interest rates, partially offset by reduced exposures to currency rates, as well as reduced volatilities, particularly in interest rate and equity assets. 91 Table of Contents Daily VaR (1) (in millions) Year Ended As of November November 2006 Risk Categories 2006 2005 High Low Interest rates $ 51 $ 45 $ 68 $ 35 Equity prices 84 54 106 49 Currency rates 15 10 47 9 Commodity prices 21 18 49 17 Diversification effect (2) (52 ) (44 ) Total $ 119 $ 83 $ 135 $ 73 (1) Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, we excluded from our calculation of VaR certain equity positions generally due to their transfer restrictions or illiquidity. The effect of excluding these positions was not material to prior periods and, accordingly, such periods have not been adjusted. For a further discussion of the market risk associated with these positions, see Other Market Risk Measures below. (2) Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. Our daily VaR increased to $119 million as of November 2006 from $83 million as of November 2005. We increased our level of exposure across all risk categories, particularly equity prices. The following chart presents our daily VaR during 2006: 92 Table of Contents Trading Net Revenues Distribution Substantially all of our inventory positions are marked to market on a daily basis and changes are recorded in net revenues. The following chart sets forth the frequency distribution of our daily trading net revenues for substantially all inventory positions included in VaR for the year ended November 2006: (1) Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2006, we excluded daily net revenues from our insurance business and our power generation facilities from this chart. Amounts for the full year have been adjusted accordingly. As part of our overall risk control process, daily trading net revenues are compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the prior business day. Trading losses incurred on a single day exceeded our 95% one day VaR on three occasions during 2006. Other Market Risk Measures Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer restrictions and or illiquidity). The market risk related to our investments in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG and the ordinary shares of ICBC is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10% decline in the SMFG common stock price and a 10% decline in the ICBC ordinary share price, respectively. The market risk related to the remaining positions is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10% decline in asset values. The sensitivity analyses for equity and debt positions in our trading portfolio and equity, debt (primarily mezzanine instruments) and real estate positions in our non trading portfolio are measured by the impact of a decline in the asset values (including the impact of leverage in the underlying investments for real estate positions in our non trading portfolio) of such positions. The fair values of the underlying positions may be sensitive to changes in a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the financial performance of the companies or properties relative to budgets or projections, the projected timing and amount of future cash flows, discount rates, trends within sectors and or regions, underlying business models and equity prices. 93 Table of Contents The sensitivity analysis of our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG, net of the economic hedge on the unrestricted shares of common stock underlying a portion of our investment, is measured by the impact of a decline in the SMFG common stock price. This sensitivity should not be extrapolated to a significant decline in the SMFG common stock price, as the relationship between the fair value of our investment and the SMFG common stock price would be nonlinear due to downside protection on the conversion stock price. The sensitivity analysis of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC excludes interests held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. The following table sets forth market risk for positions not included in VaR. These measures do not reflect diversification benefits across asset categories and, given the differing likelihood of such events occurring, these measures have not been aggregated: 10% Sensitivity Measure Amount as of Amount as of Asset Categories 10% Sensitivity Measure November 2006 November 2005 (1) (in millions) Trading Risk (2) Equity Underlying asset value $ 377 $ 127 Debt Underlying asset value 725 634 Non trading Risk SMFG SMFG common stock price 140 262 ICBC ICBC ordinary share price 191 N/A Other Equity Underlying asset value 390 172 Debt Underlying asset value 199 63 Real Estate (3) Underlying asset value 341 145 (1) Beginning in the first quarter of 2006, we excluded from our calculation of VaR certain equity positions generally due to their transfer restrictions or illiquidity. The effect of excluding these positions from VaR was not material to prior periods and, accordingly, VaR for such periods has not been adjusted. We have calculated the 10% sensitivity measure for these equity positions (i.e., Trading Risk Equity) as of November 2005 to provide a period to period comparison. To the extent that other market risk measures in the above table were affected, such measures have been adjusted to conform to the current presentation. (2) In addition to the positions in these portfolios, which are accounted for at fair value, we make investments accounted for under the equity method and we also make direct investments in real estate, both of which are included in Other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Direct investments in real estate are accounted for at cost less accumulated depreciation. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for information on Other assets. (3) Relates to interests in our real estate investment funds. During 2006, the market risk for equity positions in our trading portfolio increased due to new investments as well as an increase in the fair value of the portfolio. The increase in market risk in 2006 for debt positions in our trading portfolio and debt, real estate and other equity positions in our non trading portfolio was primarily due to new investments. The decrease in market risk in 2006 for SMFG was primarily due to the impact of additional hedging with respect to the second one third installment of unrestricted shares underlying our investment, partially offset by the increase in the fair value of our investment due to the passage of time in respect of the transfer restrictions on the underlying common stock. Credit Risk Credit risk represents the loss that we would incur if a counterparty or an issuer of securities or other instruments we hold fails to perform under its contractual obligations to us, or upon a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or other instruments, including OTC 94 Table of Contents derivatives, we hold. Our exposure to credit risk principally arises through our trading, investing and financing activities. To reduce our credit exposures, we seek to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. In addition, we attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by (i) entering into agreements that enable us to obtain collateral from a counterparty on an upfront or contingent basis, (ii) seeking third party guarantees of the counterpartys obligations, and or (iii) transferring our credit risk to third parties using credit derivatives and or other structures and techniques. To measure and manage our credit exposures, we use a variety of tools, including credit limits referenced to both current exposure and potential exposure. Potential exposure is generally based on projected worst case market movements over the life of a transaction. In addition, as part of our market risk management process, for positions measured by changes in credit spreads, we use VaR and other sensitivity measures. To supplement our primary credit exposure measures, we also use scenario analyses, such as credit spread widening scenarios, stress tests and other quantitative tools. Our global credit management systems monitor credit exposure to individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to counterparties and their affiliates. These systems also provide management, including the Firmwide Risk and Credit Policy Committees, with information regarding credit risk by product, industry sector, country and region. While our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment funds and other institutional clients, resulting in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. In the ordinary course of business, we may also be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer. As of both November 2006 and November 2005, we held U.S. government and federal agency obligations that represented 6% and 7% of our total assets, respectively. In addition, most of our financial instruments purchased under agreements to resell as well as some derivatives are collateralized by U.S. government, federal agency and other sovereign obligations. As of November 2006 and November 2005, we did not have credit exposure to any other counterparty that exceeded 5% of our total assets. However, over the past several years, the amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing, due to, among other factors, the growth of our lending and OTC derivative activities and market evolution towards longer dated transactions. A further discussion of our derivative activities follows below. Credit Risk on Derivatives Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange. Substantially all of our derivative transactions are entered into to facilitate client transactions, to take proprietary positions or as a means of risk management. In addition to derivative transactions entered into for trading purposes, we enter into derivative contracts to manage currency exposure on our net investment in non U.S. operations and to manage the interest rate and currency exposure on our long term borrowings and certain short term borrowings. Derivatives are used in many of our businesses, and we believe that the associated market risk can only be understood relative to all of the underlying assets or risks being hedged, or as part of a broader trading strategy. Accordingly, the market risk of derivative positions is managed together with our nonderivative positions. Fair values of our derivative contracts are reflected net of cash paid or received pursuant to credit support agreements and are reported on a net by counterparty basis in our consolidated 95 Table of Contents statements of financial condition when management believes a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting agreement. For an OTC derivative, our credit exposure is directly with our counterparty and continues until the maturity or termination of such contract. The following table sets forth the distribution, by credit rating, of substantially all of our exposure with respect to OTC derivatives as of November 2006 and November 2005, after taking into consideration the effect of netting agreements. The categories shown reflect our internally determined public rating agency equivalents: Over the Counter Derivative Credit Exposure ($ in millions) As of As of November 2006 November 2005 Exposure Percentage of Percentage of Collateral Net of Total Exposure Total Exposure Credit Rating Equivalent Exposure (1) Held Collateral Net of Collateral Net of Collateral AAA/Aaa $ 5,185 $ 514 $ 4,671 12 % 12 % AA/Aa2 12,499 1,447 11,052 29 22 A/A2 16,039 4,810 11,229 29 28 BBB/Baa2 8,616 2,964 5,652 15 21 BB/Ba2 or lower 8,906 3,760 5,146 13 15 Unrated 1,891 954 937 2 2 Total $ 53,136 $ 14,449 $ 38,687 100 % 100 % (1) Net of cash received pursuant to credit support agreements of $24.06 billion. The following tables set forth our OTC derivative credit exposure, net of collateral, by remaining contractual maturity: Exposure Net of Collateral (in millions) 0 6 6 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Credit Rating Equivalent Months Months Years Years or Greater Total (1) AAA/Aaa $ 1,011 $ 116 $ 1,263 $ 1,002 $ 1,279 $ 4,671 AA/Aa2 2,204 1,496 2,521 2,834 1,997 11,052 A/A2 3,850 1,304 3,094 1,867 1,114 11,229 BBB/Baa2 1,480 660 2,478 247 787 5,652 BB/Ba2 or lower 1,729 451 1,550 581 835 5,146 Unrated 477 348 5 52 55 937 Total $ 10,751 $ 4,375 $ 10,911 $ 6,583 $ 6,067 $ 38,687 0 6 6 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Contract Type Months Months Years Years or Greater Total (1) Interest rates (2) $ 2,300 $ 1,524 $ 3,720 $ 3,802 $ 3,753 $ 15,099 Currencies 4,418 882 2,521 1,186 946 9,953 Commodities 3,469 992 3,898 585 231 9,175 Equities 564 977 772 1,010 1,137 4,460 Total $ 10,751 $ 4,375 $ 10,911 $ 6,583 $ 6,067 $ 38,687 (1) Where we have obtained collateral from a counterparty under a master trading agreement that covers multiple products and transactions, we have allocated the collateral ratably based on exposure before giving effect to such collateral. (2) Includes credit related derivatives. 96 Table of Contents Derivative transactions may also involve legal risks including the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty. We attempt to minimize these risks by obtaining advice of counsel on the enforceability of agreements as well as on the authority of a counterparty to effect the derivative transaction. In addition, certain derivative transactions (e.g., credit derivative contracts) involve the risk that we may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security or obligation in order to satisfy any physical settlement requirement. Liquidity and Funding Risk Liquidity is of critical importance to companies in the financial services sector. Most failures of financial institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient liquidity resulting from adverse circumstances. Accordingly, Goldman Sachs has in place a comprehensive set of liquidity and funding policies that are intended to maintain significant flexibility to address both Goldman Sachs specific and broader industry or market liquidity events. Our principal objective is to be able to fund Goldman Sachs and to enable our core businesses to continue to generate revenue even under adverse circumstances. Management has implemented a number of policies according to the following liquidity risk management framework: Excess Liquidity We maintain substantial excess liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows in a stressed environment including financing obligations. Asset Liability Management We ensure our funding sources are sufficiently long term in order to withstand a prolonged or severe liquidity stressed environment without having to rely on asset sales. Conservative Liability Structure We access funding across a diverse range of markets, products and counterparties, emphasize less credit sensitive sources of funding and conservatively manage the distribution of funding across our entity structure. Crisis Planning We base our liquidity and funding management on stress scenario planning and maintain a crisis plan detailing our response to a liquidity threatening event. Excess Liquidity Our most important liquidity policy is to pre fund what we estimate will be our likely cash needs during a liquidity crisis and hold such excess liquidity in the form of unencumbered, highly liquid securities that may be sold or pledged to provide same day liquidity. This Global Core Excess liquidity is intended to allow us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell other assets or depend on additional funding from credit sensitive markets. We believe that this pool of excess liquidity provides us with a resilient source of funds and gives us significant flexibility in managing through a difficult funding environment. Our Global Core Excess reflects the following principles: The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most critical to a companys survival. Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Goldman Sachs businesses are diverse, and its cash needs are driven by many factors, including market movements, collateral requirements and client commitments, all of which can change dramatically in a difficult funding environment. During a liquidity crisis, credit sensitive funding, including unsecured debt and some types of secured financing agreements, may be unavailable and the terms or availability of other types of secured financing may change. 97 Table of Contents As a result of our policy to pre fund liquidity that we estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold more unencumbered securities and have larger unsecured debt balances than our businesses would otherwise require. We believe that our liquidity is stronger with greater balances of highly liquid unencumbered securities, even though it increases our unsecured liabilities. The size of our Global Core Excess is based on an internal liquidity model together with a qualitative assessment of the condition of the financial markets and of Goldman Sachs. Our liquidity model identifies and estimates cash and collateral outflows over a short term horizon in a liquidity crisis, including, but not limited to: upcoming maturities of unsecured debt and letters of credit; potential buybacks of a portion of our outstanding negotiable unsecured debt; adverse changes in the terms or availability of secured funding; derivatives and other margin and collateral outflows, including those due to market moves; potential cash outflows associated with our prime brokerage business; additional collateral that could be called in the event of a two notch downgrade in our credit ratings; draws on our unfunded commitments not supported by William Street Funding Corporation (1); and upcoming cash outflows, such as tax and other large payments. The following table sets forth the average loan value (the estimated amount of cash that would be advanced by counterparties against these securities) of our Global Core Excess: Year Ended November 2006 2005 (in millions) U.S. dollar denominated $ 40,862 $ 35,310 Non U.S. dollar denominated 10,202 11,029 Total Global Core Excess $ 51,064 $ 46,339 The U.S. dollar denominated excess is comprised of only unencumbered U.S. government and agency securities and highly liquid mortgage securities, all of which are Federal Reserve repo eligible, as well as overnight cash deposits. Our non U.S. dollar denominated excess is comprised of only unencumbered French, German, United Kingdom and Japanese government bonds and euro, British pound and Japanese yen overnight cash deposits. We strictly limit our Global Core Excess to this narrowly defined list of securities and cash that we believe are highly liquid, even in a difficult funding environment. The majority of our Global Core Excess is structured such that it is available to meet the liquidity requirements of our parent company, Group Inc., and all of its subsidiaries. The remainder is primarily held to better match the currency and timing requirements for potential liquidity obligations of our principal non U.S. operating entities. (1) The Global Core Excess excludes liquid assets of $6.93 billion held separately by William Street Funding Corporation. See Contractual Obligations and Commitments above for a further discussion of the William Street credit extension program. 98 Table of Contents In addition to our Global Core Excess, we have a significant amount of other unencumbered securities as a result of our business activities. These assets, which are located in the United States, Europe and Asia, include other government bonds, high grade money market securities, corporate bonds and marginable equities. We do not include these securities in our Global Core Excess. We maintain Global Core Excess and other unencumbered assets in an amount that, if pledged or sold, would provide the funds necessary to replace at least 110% of our unsecured obligations that are scheduled to mature (or where holders have the option to redeem) within the next 12 months. We assume conservative loan values that are based on stress scenario borrowing capacity and we regularly review these assumptions asset class by asset class. Asset Liability Management We seek to maintain a highly liquid balance sheet and substantially all of our inventory is marked to market daily. We utilize aged inventory limits for certain financial instruments as a disincentive to our businesses to hold inventory over longer periods of time. We believe that these limits provide a complementary mechanism for ensuring appropriate balance sheet liquidity in addition to our standard position limits. Although our balance sheet fluctuates due to seasonal activity, market conventions and periodic market opportunities in certain of our businesses, our total assets and adjusted assets at financial statement dates are not materially different than those occurring within our reporting periods. We seek to manage the maturity profile of our funding base such that we should be able to liquidate our assets prior to our liabilities coming due, even in times of prolonged or severe liquidity stress. We do not rely on immediate sales of assets (other than our Global Core Excess) to maintain liquidity in a distressed environment, although we recognize orderly asset sales may be prudent and necessary in a persistent liquidity crisis. In order to avoid reliance on asset sales, our goal is to ensure that we have sufficient total capital (unsecured long term borrowings plus total shareholders equity) to fund our balance sheet for at least one year. The amount of our total capital is based on an internal liquidity model, which incorporates, among other things, the following long term financing requirements: the portion of financial instruments owned that we believe could not be funded on a secured basis in periods of market stress, assuming conservative loan values; goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, property, leasehold improvements and equipment, and other illiquid assets; derivative and other margin and collateral requirements; anticipated draws on our unfunded loan commitments; and capital or other forms of financing in our regulated subsidiaries that is in excess of their long term financing requirements. See Conservative Liability Structure below for a further discussion of how we fund our subsidiaries. 99 Table of Contents Certain financial instruments may be more difficult to fund on a secured basis during times of market stress. Accordingly, we generally hold higher levels of total capital for these assets than more liquid types of financial instruments. The table below sets forth our aggregate holdings in these categories of financial instruments: As of November 2006 2005 (in millions) Mortgage whole loans and collateralized debt obligations (1) $ 41,017 $ 31,459 Bank loans (2) 28,196 13,843 High yield securities 11,054 8,822 Emerging market debt securities 2,291 1,789 SMFG convertible preferred stock 4,505 4,058 ICBC ordinary shares (3) 5,194 Other corporate principal investments (4) 3,675 1,723 Other private equity and restricted public equity securities 3,736 1,297 Real estate principal investments (4) 588 745 (1) Includes certain mortgage backed interests held in QSPEs. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our securitization activities. (2) Includes funded commitments and inventory held in connection with our origination and secondary trading activities. (3) Includes interests of $3.28 billion as of November 2006 held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. (4) Excludes assets related to consolidated merchant banking funds of $6.03 billion and $1.93 billion as of November 2006 and November 2005, respectively, for which Goldman Sachs is not at risk. A large portion of these assets are funded through secured funding markets or nonrecourse financing. We focus on demonstrating a consistent ability to fund these assets on a secured basis for extended periods of time to reduce refinancing risk and to help ensure that they have an established amount of loan value in order that they can be funded in periods of market stress. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding the financial instruments we hold. Conservative Liability Structure We seek to structure our liabilities conservatively to reduce refinancing risk and the risk that we may redeem or repurchase certain of our borrowings prior to their contractual maturity. Our conservative liability structure reflects the following policies: We fund a substantial portion of our inventory on a secured basis. We believe secured financing provides Goldman Sachs with a more stable source of liquidity than unsecured financing, as it is less sensitive to changes in our credit due to underlying collateral. Our liquidity depends to an important degree on the stability of our short term unsecured financing base. Accordingly, we prefer the use of promissory notes (in which Goldman Sachs does not make a market) over commercial paper, which we may repurchase prior to maturity through the ordinary course of business as a market maker. As of November 2006 and November 2005, our unsecured short term borrowings, including the current portion of unsecured long term borrowings was $47.9 billion and $47.2 billion, respectively. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our unsecured short term borrowings. 100 Table of Contents We recognize that secured funding transactions have greater refinancing risk when the underlying collateral is more difficult to fund. Consequently, we seek longer maturities for secured funding transactions collateralized by these assets. In some cases, we use extendible maturity features to obtain a rolling minimum term to the funding. We issue substantially all of our unsecured debt without provisions that would, based solely upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price, trigger a requirement for an early payment, collateral support, change in terms, acceleration of maturity or the creation of an additional financial obligation. We seek to maintain broad and diversified funding sources globally for both secured and unsecured funding. We make extensive use of the repurchase agreement and securities lending markets, as well as other secured funding markets. In addition, we issue debt through syndicated U.S. registered offerings, U.S. registered and 144A medium term note programs, offshore medium term note offerings and other bond offerings, U.S. and non U.S. commercial paper and promissory note issuances, and other methods. We also arrange for letters of credit to be issued on our behalf. We benefit from distributing our debt issuances through our own sales force to a large, diverse global creditor base and we believe that our relationships with our creditors are critical to our liquidity. Our creditors include banks, governments, securities lenders, pension funds, insurance companies and mutual funds. We access funding in a variety of markets in the United States, Europe and Asia. We have imposed various internal guidelines on investor concentration, including the amount of our commercial paper that can be owned and letters of credit that can be issued by any single investor or group of investors. To mitigate refinancing risk, we have created internal guidelines on the principal amount of debt maturing on any one day or during any week or year. The following table sets forth our quarterly unsecured long term borrowings maturity profile through 2012: (1) Our unsecured long term borrowings include extendible debt if the earliest maturity is one year or greater from our financial statement date. Extendible debt is categorized in the maturity profile at the earliest possible maturity even though the debt can be, and in the past generally has been, extended. 101 Table of Contents The weighted average maturity of our unsecured long term borrowings as of November 2006 was approximately eight years. We swap a substantial portion of our long term borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations with short term floating interest rates in order to minimize our exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements. For a discussion of factors that could impair our ability to access the capital markets, see Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business above as well as Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. Subsidiary Funding Policies. Substantially all of our unsecured funding is raised by our parent company, Group Inc. The parent company then lends the necessary funds to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset financing and capital requirements. In addition, the parent company provides its regulated subsidiaries with the necessary capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The benefits of this approach to subsidiary funding include enhanced control and greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements of our subsidiaries. Our intercompany funding policies are predicated on an assumption that, unless legally provided for, funds or securities are not freely available from a subsidiary to its parent company or other subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or limit the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Group Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations. As such, we assume that capital or other financing provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available to our parent company or other subsidiaries. In addition, we assume that the Global Core Excess held in our principal non U.S. operating entities will not be available to our parent company or other subsidiaries and therefore is available only to meet the potential liquidity requirements of those entities. We also manage our liquidity risk by requiring senior and subordinated intercompany loans to have maturities equal to or shorter than the maturities of the aggregate borrowings of the parent company. This policy ensures that the subsidiaries obligations to the parent company will generally mature in advance of the parent companys third party borrowings. In addition, many of our subsidiaries and affiliates pledge collateral to the parent company to cover their intercompany borrowings (other than subordinated debt) in order to mitigate parent company liquidity risk. Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its regulated subsidiaries; for example, as of November 2006, Group Inc. had $17.32 billion of such equity and subordinated indebtedness invested in Goldman, Sachs & Co., its principal U.S. registered broker dealer; $23.87 billion invested in Goldman Sachs International, a regulated U.K. broker dealer; $2.50 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P., a U.S. registered broker dealer; and $2.79 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL) a regulated Japanese broker dealer. Group Inc. also had $46.25 billion of unsubordinated loans to these entities as of November 2006, as well as significant amounts of capital invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries. Crisis Planning In order to be prepared for a liquidity event, or a period of market stress, we base our liquidity risk management framework and our resulting funding and liquidity policies on conservative stress scenario assumptions. Our planning incorporates several market based and operational stress scenarios. We also periodically conduct liquidity crisis drills to test our lines of communication and backup funding procedures. In addition, we maintain a liquidity crisis plan that specifies an approach for analyzing and responding to a liquidity threatening event. The plan provides the framework to estimate the likely impact of a liquidity event on Goldman Sachs based on some of the risks identified above and outlines which and to what extent liquidity maintenance activities should be implemented based on 102 Table of Contents the severity of the event. It also lists the crisis management team and internal and external parties to be contacted to ensure effective distribution of information. Credit Ratings We rely upon the short term and long term debt capital markets to fund a significant portion of our day to day operations. The cost and availability of debt financing is influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are important when we are competing in certain markets and when we seek to engage in longer term transactions, including OTC derivatives. We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit rating agencies assessment of our liquidity, market, credit and operational risk management practices, the level and variability of our earnings, our capital base, our franchise, reputation and management, our corporate governance and the external operating environment. See Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Business above for a discussion of the risks associated with a reduction in our credit ratings. The following table sets forth our unsecured credit ratings as of November 2006: Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Subordinated Debt (1) Preferred Stock Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited R 1 (middle) AA (low) Not applicable Not applicable Fitch, Inc. F1+ AA A+ A+ Moodys Investors Service P1 Aa3 A1 A2 Standard & Poors (2) A 1+ AA A+ A (1) During 2006, we issued $4.46 billion of subordinated debt. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our subordinated debt. (2) During the fourth quarter of 2006, Standard & Poors raised our short term debt rating from A 1 to A 1+, our long term debt rating from A+ to AA , our subordinated debt from A to A+ and our preferred stock from A to A. As of November 2006, collateral or termination payments pursuant to bilateral agreements with certain counterparties of approximately $595 million would have been required in the event of a one notch reduction in our long term credit ratings. In evaluating our liquidity requirements, we consider additional collateral or termination payments that would be required in the event of a two notch downgrade in our long term credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not been called by counterparties, but is available to them. Cash Flows As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex and interrelated and bear little relation to our net earnings and net assets and, consequently, we believe that traditional cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our liquidity position than the excess liquidity and asset liability management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may, however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and strategic initiatives in our business. Year Ended November 2006. Our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $3.97 billion to $6.29 billion at the end of 2006. We raised $53.40 billion in net cash from financing activities, primarily in long term borrowings as well as through secured financings, partially offset by common stock repurchases. We used net cash of $57.37 billion in our operating and investing activities, primarily to capitalize on trading and investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves. Year Ended November 2005. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $5.90 billion to $10.26 billion at the end of 2005. We raised $19.37 billion in net cash from financing activities, primarily in long term borrowings, in light of the favorable debt financing environment, as well as through secured financings, partially offset by common stock repurchases. We used net cash of $13.48 billion in our operating and investing activities, primarily to capitalize on trading and investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves. 103 Table of Contents Year Ended November 2004. Our cash and cash equivalents decreased by $2.72 billion to $4.37 billion at the end of 2004. We raised $31.75 billion in net cash from financing activities, primarily in long term borrowings, in light of the favorable debt financing environment, as well as through secured financings. We used net cash of $34.48 billion in our operating and investing activities, primarily to capitalize on trading and investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves, to meet additional collateral requirements at securities exchanges and clearing organizations and to provide additional funding support for our William Street loan commitments program. Operational Risk Operational risk relates to the risk of loss arising from shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people or systems, and from external events. Operational risk can arise from many factors ranging from routine processing errors to potentially costly incidents arising, for example, from major systems failures. Operational risk may also cause reputational harm. Thus, efforts to identify, manage and mitigate operational risk must be equally sensitive to the risk of reputational damage as well as the risk of financial loss. We manage operational risk through the application of long standing, but continuously evolving, firmwide control standards: the training, supervision and development of our people; the active participation and commitment of senior management in a continuous process of identifying and mitigating key operational risks across Goldman Sachs; and a framework of strong and independent control departments that monitor operational risk on a daily basis. Together, these elements form a strong firmwide control culture that serves as the foundation of our efforts to minimize events that create operational risk and the damage they can cause. The Operational Risk Department, an independent risk management function, is responsible for developing and implementing a standardized framework to identify, measure, monitor and manage operational risk across Goldman Sachs. This framework, which evolves with the changing needs of our businesses and regulatory guidance, takes into account internal and external operational risk events, business environment and internal control factors, the ongoing analysis of business specific risk metrics and the use of scenario analysis. While individual business units have direct responsibility for the control and mitigation of operational risk, this framework provides a consistent methodology for identifying and monitoring operational risk factors at the business unit and firmwide level. For a further discussion of operational risk see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. Recent Accounting Developments SFAS No. 123 R. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS No. 123 R, Share Based Payment, which is a revision to SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation. SFAS No. 123 R focuses primarily on accounting for transactions in which an entity obtains employee services in exchange for share based payments. Under SFAS No. 123 R, the cost of employee services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments is generally measured based on the grant date fair value of the award. Under SFAS No. 123 R, share based awards that do not require future service (i.e., vested awards) are expensed immediately. Share based employee awards that require future service are amortized over the relevant service period. We adopted SFAS No. 123 R under the modified prospective adoption method. Under that method of adoption, the provisions of SFAS No. 123 R are generally applied only to share based awards granted subsequent to adoption. The accounting treatment of share based awards granted to retirement eligible employees prior to our adoption of SFAS No. 123 R has not changed and financial statements for periods prior to adoption are not restated for the effects of adopting SFAS No. 123 R. SFAS No. 123 R requires the immediate expensing of share based awards granted to retirement eligible employees, including awards subject to non compete agreements. Share based awards held by employees that were retirement eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123 R must continue to be amortized over the stated service period of the award (and accelerated if the 104 Table of Contents employee actually retires). Consequently, our compensation and benefits expenses in 2006 included (and, to a lesser extent, 2007 and 2008 will include) both the amortization of awards held by employees that were retirement eligible on the date of adoption of SFAS No. 123 R as well as the full grant date fair value of new awards granted to such employees under SFAS No. 123 R. If we had amortized share based compensation prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R over a period beginning on the date of grant and ending on the earlier of the vesting date or the date of retirement eligibility, compensation and benefits expenses would have been $637 million lower in 2006, approximately $350 million higher in 2005 and approximately $375 million higher in 2004. SFAS No. 123 R requires expected forfeitures to be included in determining share based employee compensation expense. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 R, forfeiture benefits were recorded as a reduction to compensation and benefits expense when an employee left Goldman Sachs and forfeited the award. In the first quarter of 2006, we recorded a benefit for expected forfeitures on all outstanding share based awards. The transition impact of adopting SFAS No. 123 R as of the first day of our 2006 fiscal year, including the effect of accruing for expected forfeitures on outstanding share based awards, was not material to our results of operations. EITF Issue No. 04 5. In June 2005, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 04 5, Determining Whether a General Partner, or the General Partners as a Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Rights, which requires general partners to consolidate their partnerships or to provide limited partners with rights to remove the general partner or to terminate the partnership. Goldman Sachs, as the general partner of numerous merchant banking and asset management partnerships, was required to adopt the provisions of EITF Issue No. 04 5 (i) immediately for partnerships formed or modified after June 29, 2005 and (ii) in the first quarter of 2007 for partnerships formed on or before June 29, 2005 that have not been modified. We have generally provided limited partners in these funds with rights to remove Goldman Sachs as the general partner or to terminate the partnerships. Therefore, the adoption of EITF Issue No. 04 5 did not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows in 2006 for partnerships formed or modified after June 29, 2005 and is not expected to have a material effect in 2007. SFAS No. 155. In February 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140. SFAS No. 155 permits an entity to measure at fair value any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation. As permitted, we early adopted SFAS No. 155 in the first quarter of 2006. Adoption did not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. SFAS No. 156. Effective for the first quarter of 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 156, Accounting for Servicing of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140, which permits entities to elect to measure servicing assets and servicing liabilities at fair value and report changes in fair value in earnings. Goldman Sachs acquires residential mortgage servicing rights in connection with its mortgage securitization activities and has elected under SFAS No. 156 to account for these servicing rights at fair value. Adoption did not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. FIN No. 46 R 6. In April 2006, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) FIN No. 46 R 6, Determining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying FASB Interpretation No. 46 R. This FSP addresses how a reporting enterprise should determine the variability to be considered in applying FIN No. 46 R by requiring an analysis of the purpose for which an entity was created and the variability that the entity was designed to create. This FSP must be applied prospectively to all entities with which a reporting enterprise first becomes involved and to all entities previously required to be analyzed under FIN No. 46 R when a reconsideration event has occurred. As permitted, we early adopted FSP FIN No. 46 R 6 in the third quarter of 2006. Adoption did not have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 105 Table of Contents FIN No. 48. In June 2006, the FASB issued FIN No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. FIN No. 48 requires that management determine whether a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. Once it is determined that a position meets this recognition threshold, the position is measured to determine the amount of benefit to be recognized in the financial statements. We expect to adopt the provisions of FIN No. 48 beginning in the first quarter of 2008. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting FIN No. 48 on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. SFAS No. 157. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements. SFAS No. 157 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be exchanged to sell an asset or transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. SFAS No. 157 nullifies the consensus reached in EITF Issue No. 02 3 prohibiting the recognition of day one gain or loss on derivative contracts (and hybrid instruments measured at fair value under SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, as modified by SFAS No. 155) where we cannot verify all of the significant model inputs to observable market data and verify the model to market transactions. However, SFAS No. 157 requires that a fair value measurement technique include an adjustment for risks inherent in a particular valuation technique (such as a pricing model) and or the risks inherent in the inputs to the model, if market participants would also include such an adjustment. In addition, SFAS No. 157 prohibits the recognition of block discounts for large holdings of unrestricted financial instruments where quoted prices are readily and regularly available in an active market. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are to be applied prospectively, except for changes in fair value measurements that result from the initial application of SFAS No. 157 to existing derivative financial instruments measured under EITF Issue No. 02 3, existing hybrid instruments measured at fair value and block discounts, which are to be recorded as an adjustment to opening retained earnings in the year of adoption. We intend to adopt SFAS No. 157 in the first quarter of 2007. To determine the transition adjustment to opening retained earnings, we have performed an analysis of existing derivative instruments measured under EITF Issue 02 3, hybrid financial instruments and block discounts. To determine the prospective transition adjustment that will be recorded in net revenues in the first quarter of 2007, we will perform an analysis of all other positions. With respect to principal investments, the prospective transition adjustment may include positive changes to investment valuations based on available market evidence even if there have been no third party transactions in the capital structure of the underlying investee. The transition adjustment to opening retained earnings will not have a material effect on our financial condition. We are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 157 on our results of operations for the first quarter of 2007. SFAS No. 158. In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132 R. SFAS No. 158 requires an entity to recognize in its statement of financial condition the funded status of its defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. SFAS No. 158 also requires an entity to recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit pension and postretirement plan within accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax, to the extent such changes are not recognized in earnings as components of periodic net benefit cost. SFAS No. 158 is effective as of the end of the fiscal year ending after December 15, 2006. We will adopt SFAS No. 158 as of the end of 2007. We do not expect that the adoption of SFAS No. 158 will have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk Management in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report on Form 10 K. 106 Table of Contents 
 
