Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations INDEX Page No. Introduction 56 Executive Overview 57 Business Environment 59 Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses 61 Critical Accounting Policies 66 Fair Value 66 Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets 74 Use of Estimates 77 Results of Operations 78 Financial Overview 78 Segment Operating Results 84 Geographic Data 91 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 91 Equity Capital 93 Contractual Obligations and Commitments 102 Risk Management 105 Market Risk 106 Credit Risk 112 Derivatives 113 Liquidity and Funding Risk 117 Operational Risk 125 Recent Accounting Developments 126 55 Table of Contents Introduction The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) is a bank holding company and a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of services worldwide to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high net worth individuals. Our activities are divided into three segments: Investment Banking. We provide a broad range of investment banking services to a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals. Trading and Principal Investments. We facilitate client transactions with a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals and take proprietary positions through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed income and equity products, currencies, commodities and derivatives on these products. In addition, we engage in market making and specialist activities on equities and options exchanges, and we clear client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. In connection with our merchant banking and other investing activities, we make principal investments directly and through funds that we raise and manage. Asset Management and Securities Services. We provide investment advisory and financial planning services and offer investment products (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and provide prime brokerage services, financing services and securities lending services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high net worth individuals worldwide. Unless specifically stated otherwise, all references to 2008, 2007 and 2006 refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates, as the context requires, November 28, 2008, November 30, 2007 and November 24, 2006, respectively, and any reference to a future year refers to a fiscal year ending on the last Friday in November of that year. On December 15, 2008, the Board of Directors of Group Inc. (Board) approved a change in our fiscal year end from the last Friday of November to the last Friday of December. The change is effective for our 2009 fiscal year. The firms 2009 fiscal year began December 27, 2008 and will end December 25, 2009, resulting in a one month transition period that began November 29, 2008 and ended December 26, 2008. When we use the terms Goldman Sachs, the firm, we, us and our, we mean Group Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to our Annual Report on Form 10 K are to our Annual Report on Form 10 K for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008. In this discussion, we have included statements that may constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements are not historical facts but instead represent only our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These statements include statements other than historical information or statements of current condition and may relate to our future plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may also include statements about the objectives and effectiveness of our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, statements about our future status, activities or reporting under U.S. banking regulation, and statements about our investment banking transaction backlog. By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these forward looking statements. Important factors that could cause our actual results and financial condition to differ from those indicated in these forward looking statements include, among others, those discussed below under Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses as well as Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10 K and Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 in Part I, Item 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. 56 Table of Contents Executive Overview Our diluted earnings per common share were $4.47 for 2008, compared with $24.73 for 2007. Return on average tangible common shareholders equity (1) was 5.5% and return on average common shareholders equity was 4.9% for 2008. As of November 2008, book value per common share was $98.68, an increase of 9.1% compared with the end of 2007, and our Tier 1 Ratio (2) was 15.6%. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we raised $20.75 billion in equity, comprised of a $5.75 billion public common stock sale, a $5 billion preferred stock and warrant issuance to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and certain affiliates and a $10 billion preferred stock and warrant issuance under the U.S. Department of the Treasurys (U.S. Treasury) TARP Capital Purchase Program. Total assets were $885 billion at the end of the year, a decrease of 21% compared with the end of 2007. During the fourth quarter of 2008, the firm became a bank holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board). Our results for 2008 reflected a particularly difficult operating environment, including significant asset price declines, high levels of volatility and reduced levels of liquidity, particularly in the fourth quarter. In addition, credit markets experienced significant dislocation between prices for cash instruments and the related derivative contracts and between credit indices and underlying single names. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments were significantly lower compared with 2007, reflecting significant declines in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC), Principal Investments and Equities. The decrease in FICC primarily reflected losses in credit products, which included a loss of approximately $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to non investment grade credit origination activities and losses from investments, including corporate debt and private and public equities. Results in mortgages included net losses of approximately $1.7 billion on residential mortgage loans and securities and approximately $1.4 billion on commercial mortgage loans and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and commodities each produced particularly strong results and net revenues were higher compared with 2007. During 2008, although client driven activity was generally solid, FICC operated in a challenging environment characterized by broad based declines in asset values, wider mortgage and corporate credit spreads, reduced levels of liquidity and broad based investor deleveraging, particularly in the second half of the year. The decline in Principal Investments primarily reflected net losses of $2.53 billion from corporate principal investments and $949 million from real estate principal investments, as well as a $446 million loss from our investment in the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited (ICBC). In Equities, the decrease compared with particularly strong net revenues in 2007 reflected losses in principal strategies, partially offset by higher net revenues in our client franchise businesses. Commissions were particularly strong and were higher than 2007. During 2008, Equities operated in an environment characterized by a significant decline in global equity prices, broad based investor deleveraging and very high levels of volatility, particularly in the second half of the year. (1) Return on average tangible common shareholders equity (ROTE) is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly tangible common shareholders equity. See Results of Operations Financial Overview below for further information regarding our calculation of ROTE. (2) Before we became a bank holding company, we were subject to capital guidelines as a Consolidated Supervised Entity (CSE) that were generally consistent with those set out in the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II). We currently compute and report our consolidated capital ratios in accordance with the Basel II requirements, as applicable to us when we were regulated as a CSE, for the purpose of assessing the adequacy of our capital. Under the Basel II framework as it applied to us when we were regulated as a CSE, our Tier 1 Ratio equals Tier 1 Capital divided by Total Risk Weighted Assets (RWAs). We are currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to put in place the appropriate reporting and compliance mechanisms and methodologies to allow reporting of the Basel I capital ratios as of the end of March 2009. See Equity Capital below for a further discussion of our Tier 1 Ratio. 57 Table of Contents Net revenues in Investment Banking also declined significantly compared with 2007, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in both Financial Advisory and Underwriting. In Financial Advisory, the decrease compared with particularly strong net revenues in 2007 reflected a decline in industry wide completed mergers and acquisitions. The decrease in Underwriting primarily reflected significantly lower net revenues in debt underwriting, primarily due to a decline in leveraged finance and mortgage related activity, reflecting difficult market conditions. Net revenues in equity underwriting were slightly lower compared with 2007, reflecting a decrease in industry wide equity and equity related offerings. Our investment banking transaction backlog at the end of 2008 was significantly lower than it was at the end of 2007. (3) Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services increased compared with 2007. Securities Services net revenues were higher, reflecting the impact of changes in the composition of securities lending customer balances, as well as higher total average customer balances. Asset Management net revenues increased slightly compared with 2007. During the year, assets under management decreased $89 billion to $779 billion, due to $123 billion of market depreciation, primarily in equity assets, partially offset by $34 billion of net inflows. Given the difficult market conditions, and in particular, the challenging liquidity and funding environment during 2008, we focused on reducing concentrated risk positions, including our exposure to leveraged loans and real estate related loans. We believe that the strength of our capital position will enable us to take advantage of market opportunities as they arise in 2009. Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable earnings. Our results in any given period can be materially affected by conditions in global financial markets and economic conditions generally. For a further discussion of the factors that may affect our future operating results, see Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses below as well as Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. (3) Our investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of our future net revenues from investment banking transactions where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than not. 58 Table of Contents Business Environment Our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. During the first half of 2008, global economic growth slowed as the U.S. entered a recession. Despite the weakness in the U.S. and other major economies, growth in most emerging markets remained solid, which contributed to a dramatic increase in commodity prices as well as increased inflation. However, during the second half of 2008, the downturn in global economic growth became broad based, which coincided with significant weakness and sharply reduced liquidity across global financial markets. For a further discussion of how market conditions affect our businesses, see Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses below as well as Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. A further discussion of the business environment in 2008 is set forth below. Global. Growth in the global economy weakened substantially over the course of 2008, particularly in the major economies. Economic growth in emerging markets also generally declined in 2008, but remained high relative to the major economies. Fixed income and equity markets experienced high levels of volatility, broad based declines in asset prices and reduced levels of liquidity, particularly during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. In addition, mortgage and corporate credit spreads widened and credit markets experienced significant dislocation between prices for cash instruments and the related derivative contracts and between credit indices and underlying single names. The U.S. Federal Reserve lowered its federal funds target rate over the course of our fiscal year, while central banks in the Eurozone, United Kingdom, Japan and China also lowered interest rates towards the end of the year. Oil prices exhibited significant volatility during our fiscal year, rising to over $140 per barrel in July before declining to under $60 per barrel by the end of our fiscal year. In currency markets, the U.S. dollar initially weakened against most major currencies, particularly against the Euro, but subsequently recovered as the pace of decline in global economic growth began to accelerate in the second half of the year. Investment banking activity was generally subdued during our fiscal year, reflecting a significant decline in industry wide announced and completed mergers and acquisitions and equity and equity related offerings compared with 2007. United States. Real gross domestic product growth in the U.S. economy slowed to an estimated 1.2% in calendar year 2008, down from 2.0% in 2007. The economy entered a recession near the beginning of our fiscal year, with the downturn intensifying in our fourth quarter. Much of the slowdown was attributable to weakness in credit markets brought on by the contraction in the housing market and the associated increase in mortgage delinquencies and defaults. Growth in industrial production slowed from 2007 levels, reflecting reduced growth in domestic demand and exports. Both business and consumer confidence declined over the course of the year. Growth in consumer expenditure was supported in the first half of the year by the federal governments stimulus package but declined thereafter, as the housing market continued to weaken and the rate of unemployment rose significantly. The rate of inflation increased during the first half of our fiscal year, as energy and food prices increased significantly, but declined sharply towards the end of the year. Measures of core inflation, which remained elevated in the first half of the year, also declined towards the end of the year as the labor market continued to weaken and capacity utilization decreased. The U.S. Federal Reserve reduced its federal funds target rate by a total of 350 basis points to 1.00% during our fiscal year, its lowest level since 2003. U.S. regulatory agencies have also taken additional measures to address reduced levels of liquidity in credit markets and the U.S. Treasury took measures to strengthen the capital adequacy of financial institutions. The yield on the 10 year U.S. Treasury note declined by 104 basis points to 2.93% during our fiscal year. The Dow Jones Industrial Average, the SP 500 Index and the NASDAQ Composite Index ended our fiscal year lower by 34%, 39% and 42%, respectively. Europe. Real gross domestic product growth in the Eurozone economies slowed to an estimated 0.8% in calendar year 2008, down from 2.6% in 2007. Growth in industrial production, fixed investment and consumer expenditure weakened throughout the year. In addition, surveys of business and consumer confidence declined. Although the labor market remained solid in the first half of the 59 Table of Contents year, the unemployment rate began to increase in the second half of the year. The rate of inflation increased during the first three quarters of the year. In response to inflationary pressures, the European Central Bank (ECB) raised interest rates in July, increasing its main refinancing operations rate by 25 basis points to 4.25%. However, during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year, the ECB lowered its main refinancing operations rate by a total of 100 basis points to 3.25%, as financial markets and the outlook for growth weakened considerably and inflationary pressures appeared to decline. In the United Kingdom, real gross domestic product growth fell to an estimated 0.9% for calendar year 2008, down from 3.0% in 2007. The decline in growth accelerated in the second half of the year as credit market conditions deteriorated and the slowdown in the U.K. housing market intensified. The rate of inflation increased during the year, although inflationary pressures appeared to moderate in our fourth quarter. The Bank of England lowered its official bank rate over the course of our fiscal year by a total of 275 basis points to 3.00%. Long term government bond yields in both the Eurozone and the U.K. ended our fiscal year lower. The Euro and British pound depreciated by 13% and 25%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar during our fiscal year. Major European equity markets ended our fiscal year significantly lower. Asia. In Japan, real gross domestic product decreased by an estimated 0.2% in calendar year 2008 compared with an increase of 2.4% in 2007. Measures of investment activity in the housing sector and growth in consumption declined during the year. Export growth remained solid in the first half of the year but deteriorated notably towards year end as the environment outside of Japan worsened. The rate of inflation increased from the near zero levels seen in recent years, but remained moderate. The Bank of Japan lowered its target overnight call rate by 20 basis points in October, bringing it to 0.30%, while the yield on 10 year Japanese government bonds declined by 23 basis points during our fiscal year. The yen appreciated by 14% against the U.S. dollar. The Nikkei 225 ended our fiscal year down 46%. In China, real gross domestic product growth declined to an estimated 9.0% in calendar year 2008 from 13.0% in 2007. Export growth and industrial production decelerated rapidly toward the end of the year, while consumer spending softened but remained solid. Rising food prices contributed to a higher rate of inflation in the first half of the year but inflation fell sharply in the second half of the year. The Peoples Bank of China raised its one year benchmark lending rate by 18 basis points to 7.47% at the beginning of our fiscal year, but reduced the lending rate by 189 basis points during our fourth quarter and took additional measures to increase liquidity in the financial system. The Chinese government continued to allow the steady appreciation of its currency against the U.S. dollar in the first half of the year, after which the exchange rate remained broadly unchanged. Real gross domestic product growth in India slowed to an estimated 6.7% in calendar year 2008 from 9.0% in 2007. While export growth remained solid for most of the year, growth in consumer expenditure and fixed investment declined. The rate of wholesale inflation increased sharply in the first half of the year and then subsequently declined. The Indian rupee, along with other currencies in the region, generally depreciated against the U.S. dollar. Equity markets experienced substantial declines across the region, with the Shanghai Composite Index down 62%, and markets in Hong Kong, India and South Korea also ending the year significantly lower. Other Markets. Real gross domestic product growth in Brazil declined to an estimated 5.4% in calendar year 2008 from 5.7% in 2007. For most of the year, growth was supported by strong capital inflows, high demand for commodity exports, and strong domestic demand. Towards the end of the year, however, the economic outlook deteriorated, as the Brazilian currency depreciated against the U.S. dollar and commodity prices fell. In Russia, real gross domestic product growth declined to an estimated 6.2% in calendar year 2008 from 8.1% in 2007. Growth was supported by strong household consumption and increased capital investment, particularly in the first half of the year. However, in the fourth quarter, the pace of growth declined sharply, as capital outflows intensified and the Russian currency depreciated against the U.S. dollar. Brazilian and Russian equity prices ended our fiscal year significantly lower. 60 Table of Contents Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal and regulatory risks. For a discussion of how management seeks to manage some of these risks, see Risk Management below. A summary of the more important factors that could affect our businesses follows below. For a further discussion of these and other important factors that could affect our businesses, see Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Market Conditions and Market Risk. Our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in which our businesses operate. Overall, during fiscal 2008, the business environment has been extremely adverse for many of our businesses and there can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors. Our businesses and profitability have been and may continue to become adversely affected by market conditions in many ways, including the following: Many of our businesses, such as our merchant banking businesses, our mortgages, leveraged loan and credit products businesses in our FICC segment, and our equity principal strategies business, have net long positions in debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity) and most other asset classes. In addition, many of our market making and other businesses in which we act as a principal to facilitate our clients activities, including our specialist businesses, commit large amounts of capital to maintain trading positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as currencies, commodities and equities. Because nearly all of these investing and trading positions are marked to market on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures to such declines. In certain circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and private equities or other securities that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the assets. Sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. The inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase our risk weighted assets which requires us to maintain additional capital and increases our funding costs. Our cost of obtaining long term unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads. Credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the availability of credit, have adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may continue to do so. We fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by issuing commercial paper, promissory notes and long term debt, or by obtaining bank loans or lines of credit. We seek to finance many of our assets, including our less liquid assets, on a secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements. Disruptions in the credit markets make it harder and more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. If our available funding is limited or we are forced to fund 61 Table of Contents our operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to curtail our business activities and increase our cost of funding, both of which could reduce our profitability, particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending and taking principal positions, including market making. Our investment banking business has been and may continue to be adversely affected by market conditions. Poor economic conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and CEO confidence, resulting in significant industry wide declines in the size and number of underwritings and of financial advisory transactions, which could continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues and our profit margins. In addition, our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance their transactions. The lack of available credit and the increased cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing of our clients merger and acquisition transactions particularly large transactions. Because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues are derived from our participation in large transactions, a decline in the number of large transactions would adversely affect our investment banking business. Certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect the results of these businesses. On the other hand, increased volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads, also increases risk as measured by VaR and may expose us to increased risks in connection with our market making and proprietary businesses or cause us to reduce the size of these businesses in order to avoid increasing our VaR. Limiting the size of our market making positions and investing businesses can adversely affect our profitability. We receive asset based management fees based on the value of our clients portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the value of such investments. Declines in asset values reduce the value of our clients portfolios or fund assets, which in turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. Market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or their brokerage accounts or affect our ability to attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients and result in reduced net revenues, principally in our asset management business. To the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in products that generate less fee income. Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant losses in our market making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, merchant banking, underwriting and lending businesses. This risk may increase to the extent we expand our proprietary trading and investing businesses or commit capital to facilitate customer driven business. Concerns about financial institution profitability and solvency as a result of general market conditions, particularly in the credit markets, together with the forced merger or failure of a number of major commercial and investment banks have at times caused a number of our clients to reduce the level of business that they do with us, either because of concerns about the safety of their assets held by us or simply arising from a desire to diversify their risk or for other reasons. Some clients have withdrawn some of the funds held at our firm or transferred them from deposits with GS Bank USA to other types of assets (in many cases leaving those assets in their brokerage accounts held with us). Some counterparties have at times refused to enter into certain derivatives and other long term transactions with us or have requested additional collateral. These instances were more prevalent during periods when the lack of confidence in financial institutions was most widespread and have become significantly less frequent in recent months. 62 Table of Contents Liquidity Risk. Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to access secured and or unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable to control, such as a general market disruption or an operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by the perception among market participants that we, or other market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk. The ongoing liquidity crisis and the loss of confidence in financial institutions has increased our cost of funding and limited our access to some of our traditional sources of liquidity, including both secured and unsecured borrowings. In particular, in the latter half of 2008, we were unable to raise significant amounts of long term unsecured debt in the public markets, other than as a result of the issuance of securities guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under the FDICs Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). It is unclear when we will regain access to the public long term unsecured debt markets on customary terms or whether any similar program will be available after the TLGPs scheduled June 2009 expiration. The financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to which we are a party are increasingly complex, as we employ structured products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex structured products often do not have readily available markets to access in times of liquidity stress. Our investing activities may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our positions. Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition, financial institutions with which we interact may exercise set off rights or the right to require additional collateral, including in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our access to liquidity. Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions, counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral. Termination of our trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or to make significant cash payments or securities movements. For a discussion of downgrades to our ratings that occurred in December 2008 and of the potential impact on Goldman Sachs of a further reduction in our credit ratings, see Liquidity and Funding Risk Credit Ratings below. Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of Goldman, Sachs Co. (GSCo.), Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA) and Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe), subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to GS Bank USA to support its obligations to GS Bank USA. These guarantees may require Group Inc. to provide substantial funds or assets to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a time when Group Inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its own obligations. 63 Table of Contents Credit Risk. The amount and duration of our credit exposures have been increasing over the past several years, as have the breadth and size of the entities to which we have credit exposures. We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will not perform their obligations. These parties may default on their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other reasons. A failure of a significant market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us. We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses and or adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results. While in many cases we are permitted to require additional collateral for counterparties that experience financial difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity. As part of our clearing business, we finance our client positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients. Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee, particularly as new business initiatives lead us to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us to new asset classes and new markets. We have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us for the risks we take. In particular, corporate clients sometimes seek to require credit commitments from us in connection with investment banking and other assignments. Operational Risk. Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. These transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may include a disruption involving electrical, communications, internet, transportation or other services used by us or third parties with which we conduct business. Industry consolidation, whether among market participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses increases the risk that an operational failure at one institution may cause an industry wide operational failure that could materially impact our ability to conduct business. 64 Table of Contents Legal and Regulatory Risk. We are subject to extensive and evolving regulation in jurisdictions around the world. Several of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements and, as a bank holding company, we are subject to minimum capital standards and a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio on a consolidated basis. Firms in the financial services industry have been operating in a difficult regulatory environment. Recent market disruptions have led to numerous proposals for significant additional regulation of the financial services industry. These regulations could limit our business activities, increase compliance costs and, to the extent the regulations strictly control the activities of financial services firms, make it more difficult for us to distinguish ourselves from competitors. Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. As a bank holding company, we will be subject to capital requirements based on Basel I as opposed to the requirements based on Basel II that applied to us as a CSE. Complying with these requirements may require us to liquidate assets or raise capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. In addition, failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our status as a bank holding company and the operation of our lending and other businesses through GS Bank USA subject us to additional regulation and limitations on our activities, as described in Regulation Banking Regulation in Part I, Item 1 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K, as well as some regulatory uncertainty as we apply banking regulations and practices to many of our businesses. The application of these regulations and practices may present us and our regulators with new or novel issues. We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain high. Our experience has been that legal claims by customers and clients increase in a market downturn. In addition, employment related claims typically increase in periods when we have reduced the total number of employees. For a discussion of how we account for our legal and regulatory exposures, see Use of Estimates below. 65 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies Fair Value The use of fair value to measure financial instruments, with related unrealized gains or losses generally recognized in Trading and principal investments in our consolidated statements of earnings, is fundamental to our financial statements and our risk management processes and is our most critical accounting policy. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (the exit price). Financial assets are marked to bid prices and financial liabilities are marked to offer prices. During the fourth quarter of 2008, both the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) and the staff of the SEC re emphasized the importance of sound fair value measurement in financial reporting. In October 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset is Not Active. This statement clarifies that determining fair value in an inactive or dislocated market depends on facts and circumstances and requires significant management judgment. This statement specifies that it is acceptable to use inputs based on management estimates or assumptions, or for management to make adjustments to observable inputs to determine fair value when markets are not active and relevant observable inputs are not available. Our fair value measurement policies are consistent with the guidance in FSP No. FAS 157 3. Substantially all trading assets and trading liabilities are reflected in our consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value, pursuant principally to: Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities; specialized industry accounting for broker dealers and investment companies; SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities; or the fair value option under either SFAS No. 155, Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140, or SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (i.e., the fair value option). Upon becoming a bank holding company in September 2008, we could no longer apply specialized broker dealer industry accounting to those subsidiaries not regulated as broker dealers. Therefore, within our non broker dealer subsidiaries, we designated as held for trading those instruments within the scope of SFAS No. 115 (i.e., debt securities and marketable equity securities), and elected the fair value option for other cash instruments (specifically loans, loan commitments and certain private equity and restricted public equity securities) which we historically had carried at fair value. These fair value elections were in addition to previous elections made for certain corporate loans, loan commitments and certificates of deposit issued by GS Bank USA. There was no impact on earnings from these initial elections because all of these instruments were already recorded at fair value in Trading assets, at fair value or Trading liabilities, at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial condition prior to Group Inc. becoming a bank holding company. 66 Table of Contents In determining fair value, we separate our Trading assets, at fair value and Trading liabilities, at fair value into two categories: cash instruments and derivative contracts, as set forth in the following table: Trading Instruments by Category (in millions) As of November 2008 2007 Trading Trading Trading Trading Assets, at Liabilities, at Assets, at Liabilities, at Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Fair Value Cash trading instruments $ 186,231 $ 57,143 $ 324,181 $ 112,018 ICBC 5,496 (1) 6,807 (1) SMFG 1,135 1,134 (4) 4,060 3,627 (4) Other principal investments 15,126 (2) 11,933 (2) Principal investments 21,757 1,134 22,800 3,627 Cash instruments 207,988 58,277 346,981 115,645 Exchange traded 6,164 8,347 13,541 12,280 Over the counter 124,173 109,348 92,073 87,098 Derivative contracts 130,337 (3) 117,695 (5) 105,614 (3) 99,378 (5) Total $ 338,325 $ 175,972 $ 452,595 $ 215,023 (1) Includes interests of $3.48 billion and $4.30 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. The fair value of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, which trade on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, includes the effect of foreign exchange revaluation for which we maintain an economic currency hedge. (2) The following table sets forth the principal investments (in addition to our investments in ICBC and Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG)) included within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment: As of November 2008 2007 Corporate Real Estate Total Corporate Real Estate Total (in millions) Private $ 10,726 $ 2,935 $ 13,661 $ 7,297 $ 2,361 $ 9,658 Public 1,436 29 1,465 2,208 67 2,275 Total $ 12,162 $ 2,964 $ 15,126 $ 9,505 $ 2,428 $ 11,933 (3) Net of cash received pursuant to credit support agreements of $137.16 billion and $59.05 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. (4) Represents an economic hedge on the shares of common stock underlying our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG. (5) Net of cash paid pursuant to credit support agreements of $34.01 billion and $27.76 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. 67 Table of Contents Cash Instruments. Cash instruments include cash trading instruments, public principal investments and private principal investments. Cash Trading Instruments. Our cash trading instruments are generally valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. The types of instruments valued based on quoted market prices in active markets include most U.S. government and sovereign obligations, active listed equities and certain money market securities. The types of instruments that trade in markets that are not considered to be active, but are valued based on quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency include most government agency securities, investment grade corporate bonds, certain mortgage products, certain bank loans and bridge loans, less liquid listed equities, state, municipal and provincial obligations and certain money market securities and loan commitments. Certain cash trading instruments trade infrequently and therefore have little or no price transparency. Such instruments include private equity and real estate fund investments, certain bank loans and bridge loans (including certain mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising from capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt), less liquid corporate debt securities and other debt obligations (including less liquid high yield corporate bonds, distressed debt instruments and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by corporate obligations), less liquid mortgage whole loans and securities (backed by either commercial or residential real estate), and acquired portfolios of distressed loans. The transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model value at inception equals the transaction price. This valuation is adjusted only when changes to inputs and assumptions are corroborated by evidence such as transactions in similar instruments, completed or pending third party transactions in the underlying investment or comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or cash flows. For positions that are not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and or non transferability. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, managements best estimate is used. Public Principal Investments. Our public principal investments held within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment tend to be large, concentrated holdings resulting from initial public offerings or other corporate transactions, and are valued based on quoted market prices. For positions that are not traded in active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity and or non transferability. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, managements best estimate is used. Our most significant public principal investment is our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC. Our investment in ICBC is valued using the quoted market price adjusted for transfer restrictions. The ordinary shares acquired from ICBC are subject to transfer restrictions that, among other things, prohibit any sale, disposition or other transfer until April 28, 2009. From April 28, 2009 to October 20, 2009, we may transfer up to 50% of the aggregate ordinary shares of ICBC that we owned as of October 20, 2006. We may transfer the remaining shares after October 20, 2009. A portion of our interest is held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. 68 Table of Contents We also have an investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG. This investment is valued using a model that is principally based on SMFGs common stock price. During our second quarter of 2008, we converted one third of our SMFG preferred stock investment into SMFG common stock, and delivered the common stock to close out one third of our hedge position. As of November 2008, we remained hedged on the common stock underlying our remaining investment in SMFG. Private Principal Investments. Our private principal investments held within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment include investments in private equity, debt and real estate, primarily held through investment funds. By their nature, these investments have little or no price transparency. We value such instruments initially at transaction price and adjust valuations when evidence is available to support such adjustments. Such evidence includes transactions in similar instruments, completed or pending third party transactions in the underlying investment or comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or cash flows. Derivative Contracts. Derivative contracts can be exchange traded or over the counter (OTC). We generally value exchange traded derivatives using models which calibrate to market clearing levels and eliminate timing differences between the closing price of the exchange traded derivatives and their underlying instruments. OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other market evidence whenever possible, including market based inputs to models, model calibration to market clearing transactions, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency. Where models are used, the selection of a particular model to value an OTC derivative depends upon the contractual terms of, and specific risks inherent in, the instrument as well as the availability of pricing information in the market. We generally use similar models to value similar instruments. Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms, market prices, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility, prepayment rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be verified and model selection does not involve significant management judgment. Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. Where we do not have corroborating market evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions, the transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model value at inception equals the transaction price. Subsequent to initial recognition, we only update valuation inputs when corroborated by evidence such as similar market transactions, third party pricing services and or broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. In circumstances where we cannot verify the model value to market transactions, it is possible that a different valuation model could produce a materially different estimate of fair value. See Derivatives below for further information on our OTC derivatives. When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations. Such adjustments are generally based on available market evidence. In the absence of such evidence, managements best estimate is used. Controls Over Valuation of Financial Instruments. A control infrastructure, independent of the trading and investing functions, is fundamental to ensuring that our financial instruments are appropriately valued at market clearing levels (exit price) and that fair value measurements are reliable and consistently determined. 69 Table of Contents We employ an oversight structure that includes appropriate segregation of duties. Senior management, independent of the trading and investing functions, is responsible for the oversight of control and valuation policies and for reporting the results of these policies to our Audit Committee. We seek to maintain the necessary resources to ensure that control functions are performed appropriately. We employ procedures for the approval of new transaction types and markets, price verification, review of daily profit and loss, and review of valuation models by personnel with appropriate technical knowledge of relevant products and markets. These procedures are performed by personnel independent of the trading and investing functions. For financial instruments where prices or valuations that require inputs are less observable, we employ, where possible, procedures that include comparisons with similar observable positions, analysis of actual to projected cash flows, comparisons with subsequent sales, reviews of valuations used for collateral management purposes and discussions with senior business leaders. See Market Risk and Credit Risk below for a further discussion of how we manage the risks inherent in our trading and principal investing businesses. Fair Value Hierarchy Level 3. SFAS No. 157 establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The objective of a fair value measurement is to determine the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (the exit price). The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (level 3 measurements). Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Instruments that trade infrequently and therefore have little or no price transparency are classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. We determine which instruments are classified within level 3 based on the results of our price verification process. This process is performed by personnel independent of our trading and investing functions who corroborate valuations to external market data (e.g., quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, third party pricing vendors, recent trading activity and comparative analyses to similar instruments). When broker or dealer quotations or third party pricing vendors are used for valuation or price verification, greater priority is given to executable quotes. As part of our price verification process, valuations based on quotes are corroborated by comparison both to other quotes and to recent trading activity in the same or similar instruments. The number of quotes obtained varies by instrument and depends on the liquidity of the particular instrument. See Notes 2 and 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding SFAS No. 157. Recent market conditions, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2008 (characterized by dislocations between asset classes, elevated levels of volatility, and reduced price transparency), have increased the level of management judgment required to value cash trading instruments classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. In particular, managements judgment is required to determine the appropriate risk adjusted discount rate for cash trading instruments with little or no price transparency as a result of decreased volumes and lower levels of trading activity. In such situations, our valuation is adjusted to approximate rates which market participants would likely consider appropriate for relevant credit and liquidity risks. Valuation Methodologies for Level 3 Assets. Instruments classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are initially valued at transaction price, which is considered to be the best initial estimate of fair value. As time passes, transaction price becomes less reliable as an estimate of fair value and accordingly, we use other methodologies to determine fair value, which vary based on the type of instrument, as described below. Regardless of the methodology, valuation inputs and assumptions are only changed when corroborated by substantive evidence. Senior management in control functions, independent of the trading and investing functions, reviews all significant unrealized gains/losses, including the primary drivers of the change in value. Valuations are further corroborated by values realized upon 70 Table of Contents sales of our level 3 assets. An overview of methodologies used to value our level 3 assets subsequent to the transaction date is as follows: Private equity and real estate fund investments. Investments are generally held at cost for the first year. Recent third party investments or pending transactions are considered to be the best evidence for any change in fair value. In the absence of such evidence, valuations are based on third party independent appraisals, transactions in similar instruments, discounted cash flow techniques, valuation multiples and public comparables. Such evidence includes pending reorganizations (e.g., merger proposals, tender offers or debt restructurings); and significant changes in financial metrics (e.g., operating results as compared to previous projections, industry multiples, credit ratings and balance sheet ratios). Bank loans and bridge loans and Corporate debt securities and other debt obligations. Valuations are generally based on discounted cash flow techniques, for which the key inputs are the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, market yields for such instruments and recovery assumptions. Inputs are generally determined based on relative value analyses, which incorporate comparisons both to credit default swaps that reference the same underlying credit risk and to other debt instruments for the same issuer for which observable prices or broker quotes are available. Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate. Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate are collateralized by specific assets and are generally tranched into varying levels of subordination. Due to the nature of these instruments, valuation techniques vary by instrument. Methodologies include relative value analyses across different tranches, comparisons to transactions in both the underlying collateral and instruments with the same or substantially the same underlying collateral, market indices (such as the CMBX (1)), and credit default swaps, as well as discounted cash flow techniques. Loans and securities backed by residential real estate. Valuations are based on both proprietary and industry recognized models (including Intex and Bloomberg), discounted cash flow techniques and hypothetical securitization analyses. In the recent market environment, the most significant inputs to the valuation of these instruments are rates of delinquency, default and loss expectations, which are driven in part by housing prices. Inputs are determined based on relative value analyses, which incorporate comparisons to instruments with similar collateral and risk profiles, including relevant indices such as the ABX (1). Loan portfolios. Valuations are based on discounted cash flow techniques, for which the key inputs are the amount and timing of expected future cash flows and market yields for such instruments. Inputs are determined based on relative value analyses which incorporate comparisons to recent auction data for other similar loan portfolios. Derivative contracts. Valuation models are calibrated to initial transaction price. Subsequent changes in valuations are based on observable inputs to the valuation models (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, volatilities, etc.). Inputs are changed only when corroborated by market data. Valuations of less liquid OTC derivatives are typically based on level 1 or level 2 inputs that can be observed in the market, as well as unobservable inputs, such as correlations and volatilities. Total level 3 assets were $66.19 billion and $69.15 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. The decrease in level 3 assets for the year ended November 2008 primarily reflected (i) unrealized losses on loans and securities backed by commercial real estate, bank loans and bridge loans, and private equity and real estate fund investments, and (ii) sales and paydowns on bank loans and bridge loans and loan portfolios. These decreases were partially offset by transfers to level 3 of certain loans and securities backed by commercial real estate due to reduced price transparency. (1) The CMBX and ABX are indices that track the performance of commercial mortgage bonds and subprime residential mortgage bonds, respectively. 71 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the fair values of financial assets classified as level 3 within the fair value hierarchy: Level 3 Financial Assets at Fair Value (in millions) As of November Description 2008 2007 Private equity and real estate fund investments (1) $ 16,006 $ 18,006 Bank loans and bridge loans (2) 11,957 13,334 Corporate debt securities and other debt obligations (3) 7,596 6,111 Mortgage and other asset backed loans and securities Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate 9,340 7,410 Loans and securities backed by residential real estate 2,049 2,484 Loan portfolios (4) 4,118 6,106 Cash instruments 51,066 53,451 Derivative contracts 15,124 15,700 Total level 3 assets at fair value 66,190 69,151 Level 3 assets for which we do not bear economic exposure (5) (6,616 ) (14,437 ) Level 3 assets for which we bear economic exposure $ 59,574 $ 54,714 (1) Includes $1.18 billion and $7.06 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, of assets for which we do not bear economic exposure. Also includes $2.62 billion and $2.02 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, of real estate fund investments. (2) Includes mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising from capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt. (3) Includes $804 million and $2.49 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, of CDOs backed by corporate obligations. (4) Consists of acquired portfolios of distressed loans, primarily backed by commercial and residential real estate collateral. (5) We do not bear economic exposure to these level 3 assets as they are financed by nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority investors or attributable to employee interests in certain consolidated funds. 72 Table of Contents Loans and securities backed by residential real estate. We securitize, underwrite and make markets in various types of residential mortgages, including prime, Alt A and subprime. At any point in time, we may use cash instruments as well as derivatives to manage our long or short risk position in residential real estate. The following table sets forth the fair value of our long positions in prime, Alt A and subprime mortgage cash instruments: Long Positions in Loans and Securities Backed by Residential Real Estate (in millions) As of November 2008 2007 Prime (1) $ 1,494 $ 7,135 Alt A 1,845 6,358 Subprime (2) 1,906 2,109 Total (3) $ 5,245 $ 15,602 (1) Excludes U.S. government agency issued collateralized mortgage obligations of $4.27 billion and $7.24 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. Also excludes U.S. government agency issued mortgage pass through certificates. (2) Includes $228 million and $316 million of CDOs backed by subprime mortgages as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. (3) Includes $2.05 billion and $2.48 billion of financial instruments (primarily loans and investment grade securities, the majority of which were issued during 2006 and 2007) classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate. We originate, securitize and syndicate fixed and floating rate commercial mortgages globally. At any point in time, we may use cash instruments as well as derivatives to manage our risk position in the commercial mortgage market. The following table sets forth the fair value of our long positions in loans and securities backed by commercial real estate by geographic region. The decrease in loans and securities backed by commercial real estate from November 2007 to November 2008 was primarily due to dispositions. Long Positions in Loans and Securities Backed by Commercial Real Estate by Geographic Region (in millions) As of November 2008 2007 Americas (1) $ 7,433 $ 12,361 EMEA (2) 3,304 6,607 Asia 157 52 Total (3) $ 10,894 (4) $ 19,020 (5) (1) Substantially all relates to the U.S. (2) EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa). (3) Includes $9.34 billion and $7.41 billion of financial instruments classified as level 3 under the fair value hierarchy as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. (4) Comprised of loans of $9.23 billion and commercial mortgage backed securities of $1.66 billion as of November 2008, of which $9.78 billion was floating rate and $1.11 billion was fixed rate. (5) Comprised of loans of $16.27 billion and commercial mortgage backed securities of $2.75 billion as of November 2007, of which $16.52 billion was floating rate and $2.50 billion was fixed rate. 73 Table of Contents Other Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities at Fair Value. In addition to Trading assets, at fair value and Trading liabilities, at fair value, we have elected to account for certain of our other financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value under the fair value option. The primary reasons for electing the fair value option are to reflect economic events in earnings on a timely basis, to mitigate volatility in earnings from using different measurement attributes and to address simplification and cost benefit considerations. Such financial assets and financial liabilities accounted for at fair value include: certain unsecured short term borrowings, consisting of all promissory notes and commercial paper and certain hybrid financial instruments; certain other secured financings, primarily transfers accounted for as financings rather than sales under SFAS No. 140, debt raised through our William Street program and certain other nonrecourse financings; certain unsecured long term borrowings, including prepaid physical commodity transactions; resale and repurchase agreements; securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal Investments, consisting of our matched book and certain firm financing activities; certain corporate loans, loan commitments and certificates of deposit issued by GS Bank USA as well as securities held by GS Bank USA; receivables from customers and counterparties arising from transfers accounted for as secured loans rather than purchases under SFAS No. 140; certain insurance and reinsurance contracts; and in general, investments acquired after the adoption of SFAS No. 159 where we have significant influence over the investee and would otherwise apply the equity method of accounting. In certain cases, we may apply the equity method of accounting to new investments that are strategic in nature or closely related to our principal business activities, where we have a significant degree of involvement in the cash flows or operations of the investee, or where cost benefit considerations are less significant. Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets As a result of our acquisitions, principally SLK LLC (SLK) in 2000, The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco) in 2003 and our variable annuity and life insurance business in 2006, we have acquired goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of net assets, including identifiable intangible assets, at the acquisition date. Goodwill. We test the goodwill in each of our operating segments, which are components one level below our three business segments, for impairment at least annually in accordance with SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, by comparing the estimated fair value of each operating segment with its estimated net book value. We derive the fair value of each of our operating segments based on valuation techniques we believe market participants would use for each segment (observable average price to earnings multiples of our competitors in these businesses and price to book multiples). We derive the net book value of our operating segments by estimating the amount of shareholders equity required to support the activities of each operating segment. Our last annual impairment test was performed during our 2008 fourth quarter and no impairment was identified. Substantially all of our goodwill is in our Equities component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment and in our Asset Management and Securities Services segment. Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment generated record net revenues in 2008 and our Equities component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment had its second best year following its record net revenues in 2007. 74 Table of Contents During 2008, particularly during the fourth quarter, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. Our stock price, consistent with stock prices in the broader financial services sector, declined significantly during this period of time. During the fourth quarter of 2008, our market capitalization fell below recorded book value, principally during the last five weeks of the quarter. With respect to the testing of our goodwill for impairment, we believe that it is reasonable to consider market capitalization as an indicator of fair value over a reasonable period of time. If the current economic market conditions persist and if there is a prolonged period of weakness in the business environment and financial markets, our businesses may be adversely affected, which could result in an impairment of goodwill in the future. The following table sets forth the carrying value of our goodwill by operating segment: Goodwill by Operating Segment (in millions) As of November 2008 2007 Investment Banking Underwriting $ 125 $ 125 Trading and Principal Investments FICC 247 123 Equities (1) 2,389 2,381 Principal Investments 80 11 Asset Management and Securities Services Asset Management (2) 565 564 Securities Services 117 117 Total $ 3,523 $ 3,321 (1) Primarily related to SLK. (2) Primarily related to Ayco. Identifiable Intangible Assets. We amortize our identifiable intangible assets over their estimated lives in accordance with SFAS No. 142 or, in the case of insurance contracts, in accordance with SFAS No. 60, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises, and SFAS No. 97, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments. Identifiable intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an assets or asset groups carrying value may not be fully recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets, or SFAS No. 60 and SFAS No. 97. An impairment loss, generally calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value. 75 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the carrying value and range of remaining lives of our identifiable intangible assets by major asset class: Identifiable Intangible Assets by Asset Class ($ in millions) As of November 2008 2007 Range of Estimated Carrying Remaining Lives Carrying Value (in years) Value Customer lists (1) $ 724 2 17 $ 732 New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Designated Market Maker (DMM) rights 462 13 502 Insurance related assets (2) 303 7 372 Exchange traded fund (ETF) lead market maker rights 95 19 100 Other (3) 93 1 17 65 Total $ 1,677 $ 1,771 (1) Primarily includes our clearance and execution and NASDAQ customer lists related to SLK and financial counseling customer lists related to Ayco. (2) Consists of the value of business acquired (VOBA) and deferred acquisition costs (DAC). VOBA represents the present value of estimated future gross profits of acquired variable annuity and life insurance businesses. DAC results from commissions paid by Goldman Sachs to the primary insurer (ceding company) on life and annuity reinsurance agreements as compensation to place the business with us and to cover the ceding companys acquisition expenses. VOBA and DAC are amortized over the estimated life of the underlying contracts based on estimated gross profits, and amortization is adjusted based on actual experience. The seven year estimated life represents the weighted average remaining amortization period of the underlying contracts (certain of which extend for approximately 30 years). (3) Primarily includes marketing related assets and power contracts. A prolonged period of weakness in global equity markets and the trading of securities in multiple markets and on multiple exchanges could adversely impact our businesses and impair the value of our identifiable intangible assets. In addition, certain events could indicate a potential impairment of our identifiable intangible assets, including (i) changes in market structure that could adversely affect our specialist businesses (see discussion below), (ii) an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, or (iii) adverse actual experience on the contracts in our variable annuity and life insurance business. In October 2008, the SEC approved the NYSEs proposal to create a new market model and redefine the role of NYSE DMMs. This new rule set further aligns the NYSEs model with investor requirements for speed and efficiency of execution and establishes specialists as DMMs. While DMMs still have an obligation to commit capital, they are now able to trade on parity with other market participants. In addition, in November 2008 the NYSE introduced a reserve order type that allows for anonymous trade execution, which is expected to allow the NYSE to recapture liquidity and market share from other venues in which anonymous reserve orders have been available for some time. The new rule set and the launch of the reserve order type, in combination with technology improvements to increase execution speed, are expected to bolster the NYSEs competitive position. 76 Table of Contents In 2007, we tested our NYSE DMM rights for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets. Under SFAS No. 144, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of our NYSE DMM rights exceeds the projected undiscounted cash flows of the business over the estimated remaining life of our NYSE DMM rights. Projected undiscounted cash flows exceeded the carrying amount of our NYSE DMM rights, and accordingly we did not record an impairment loss. In projecting the undiscounted cash flows of the business, we made several important assumptions about the potential beneficial effects of the rule and market structure changes described above. Specifically, we assumed that: total equity trading volumes in NYSE listed companies will continue to grow at a rate consistent with recent historical trends; the NYSE will be able to recapture approximately one half of the market share that it lost in 2007; and we will increase our market share of the NYSE DMM business and, as a DMM, the profitability of each share traded. We also assumed that the rule changes would be implemented in our fiscal fourth quarter of 2008 (as noted above, such rule changes were approved in October 2008) and that projected cash flow increases related to the implementation of the rule set would begin in 2009, consistent with the assumptions above. Subsequently, there have been no events or changes in circumstances indicating that NYSE DMM rights intangible asset may not be recoverable. However, there can be no assurance that the assumptions, rule or structure changes described above will result in sufficient cash flows to avoid impairment of our NYSE DMM rights in the future. We will continue to evaluate the performance of the specialist business under the new market model. As of November 2008, the carrying value of our NYSE DMM rights was $462 million. To the extent that there were to be an impairment in the future, it could result in a significant writedown in the carrying value of these DMM rights. Use of Estimates The use of generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain estimates and assumptions. In addition to the estimates we make in connection with fair value measurements and the accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, the use of estimates and assumptions is also important in determining provisions for potential losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax audits. We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out of litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated, in accordance with SFAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies. We estimate and provide for potential liabilities that may arise out of tax audits to the extent that uncertain tax positions fail to meet the recognition standard of FIN 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information on FIN 48. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and our final liabilities may ultimately be materially different. Our total estimated liability in respect of litigation and regulatory proceedings is determined on a case by case basis and represents an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in similar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of our litigation and regulatory matters, particularly in cases or proceedings in which substantial or indeterminate damages or fines are sought, we cannot estimate losses or ranges of losses for cases or proceedings where there is only a reasonable possibility that a loss may be incurred. See Legal Proceedings in Part I, Item 3 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for information on our judicial, regulatory and arbitration proceedings. 77 Table of Contents Results of Operations The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed. The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and market conditions. See Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses above and Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for a further discussion of the impact of economic and market conditions on our results of operations. Financial Overview The following table sets forth an overview of our financial results: Financial Overview ($ in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended November 2008 2007 2006 Net revenues $ 22,222 $ 45,987 $ 37,665 Pre tax earnings 2,336 17,604 14,560 Net earnings 2,322 11,599 9,537 Net earnings applicable to common shareholders 2,041 11,407 9,398 Diluted earnings per common share 4.47 24.73 19.69 Return on average common shareholders equity (1) 4.9 % 32.7 % 32.8 % Return on average tangible common shareholders equity (2) 5.5 % 38.2 % 39.8 % (1) Return on average common shareholders equity (ROE) is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly common shareholders equity. (2) Tangible common shareholders equity equals total shareholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. Identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts are not deducted from total shareholders equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common shareholders equity. We believe that return on average tangible common shareholders equity (ROTE) is meaningful because it measures the performance of businesses consistently, whether they were acquired or developed internally. ROTE is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly tangible common shareholders equity. The following table sets forth the reconciliation of average total shareholders equity to average tangible common shareholders equity: Average for the Year Ended November 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Total shareholders equity $ 47,167 $ 37,959 $ 31,048 Preferred stock (5,157 ) (3,100 ) (2,400 ) Common shareholders equity 42,010 34,859 28,648 Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts (5,220 ) (4,971 ) (5,013 ) Tangible common shareholders equity $ 36,790 $ 29,888 $ 23,635 78 Table of Contents Net Revenues 2008 versus 2007. Our net revenues were $22.22 billion in 2008, a decrease of 52% compared with 2007, reflecting a particularly difficult operating environment, including significant asset price declines, high levels of volatility and reduced levels of liquidity, particularly in the fourth quarter. In addition, credit markets experienced significant dislocation between prices for cash instruments and the related derivative contracts and between credit indices and underlying single names. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments were significantly lower compared with 2007, reflecting significant declines in FICC, Principal Investments and Equities. The decrease in FICC primarily reflected losses in credit products, which included a loss of approximately $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to non investment grade credit origination activities and losses from investments, including corporate debt and private and public equities. Results in mortgages included net losses of approximately $1.7 billion on residential mortgage loans and securities and approximately $1.4 billion on commercial mortgage loans and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and commodities each produced particularly strong results and net revenues were higher compared with 2007. During 2008, although client driven activity was generally solid, FICC operated in a challenging environment characterized by broad based declines in asset values, wider mortgage and corporate credit spreads, reduced levels of liquidity and broad based investor deleveraging, particularly in the second half of the year. The decline in Principal Investments primarily reflected net losses of $2.53 billion from corporate principal investments and $949 million from real estate principal investments, as well as a $446 million loss from our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC. In Equities, the decrease compared with particularly strong net revenues in 2007 reflected losses in principal strategies, partially offset by higher net revenues in our client franchise businesses. Commissions were particularly strong and were higher than 2007. During 2008, Equities operated in an environment characterized by a significant decline in global equity prices, broad based investor deleveraging and very high levels of volatility, particularly in the second half of the year. Net revenues in Investment Banking also declined significantly compared with 2007, reflecting significantly lower net revenues in both Financial Advisory and Underwriting. In Financial Advisory, the decrease compared with particularly strong net revenues in 2007 reflected a decline in industry wide completed mergers and acquisitions. The decrease in Underwriting primarily reflected significantly lower net revenues in debt underwriting, primarily due to a decline in leveraged finance and mortgage related activity, reflecting difficult market conditions. Net revenues in equity underwriting were slightly lower compared with 2007, reflecting a decrease in industry wide equity and equity related offerings. Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services increased compared with 2007. Securities Services net revenues were higher, reflecting the impact of changes in the composition of securities lending customer balances, as well as higher total average customer balances. Asset Management net revenues increased slightly compared with 2007. During the year, assets under management decreased $89 billion to $779 billion, due to $123 billion of market depreciation, primarily in equity assets, partially offset by $34 billion of net inflows. 79 Table of Contents 2007 versus 2006. Our net revenues were $45.99 billion in 2007, an increase of 22% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments and Investment Banking, and higher net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services. The increase in Trading and Principal Investments reflected higher net revenues in Equities, FICC and Principal Investments. Net revenues in Equities increased 33% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in both our client franchise businesses and principal strategies. During 2007, Equities operated in an environment characterized by strong client driven activity, generally higher equity prices and higher levels of volatility, particularly during the second half of the year. The increase in FICC reflected significantly higher net revenues in currencies and interest rate products. In addition, net revenues in mortgages were higher despite a significant deterioration in the mortgage market throughout the year, while net revenues in credit products were strong, but slightly lower compared with 2006. Credit products included substantial gains from equity investments, including a gain of approximately $900 million related to the disposition of Horizon Wind Energy L.L.C., as well as a loss of approximately $1 billion (net of hedges) related to non investment grade credit origination activities. During 2007, FICC operated in an environment generally characterized by strong client driven activity and favorable market opportunities. However, during the year, the mortgage market experienced significant deterioration and, in the second half of the year, the broader credit markets were characterized by wider spreads and reduced levels of liquidity. The increase in Principal Investments reflected strong results in both corporate and real estate investing. The increase in Investment Banking reflected a 64% increase in Financial Advisory net revenues and a strong performance in our Underwriting business. The increase in Financial Advisory primarily reflected growth in industry wide completed mergers and acquisitions. The increase in Underwriting reflected higher net revenues in debt underwriting, as leveraged finance activity was strong during the first half of our fiscal year, while net revenues in equity underwriting were strong but essentially unchanged from 2006. Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services also increased. The increase in Securities Services primarily reflected significant growth in global customer balances. The increase in Asset Management reflected significantly higher asset management fees, partially offset by significantly lower incentive fees. During the year, assets under management increased $192 billion, or 28%, to $868 billion, including net inflows of $161 billion. 80 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation, headcount and levels of business activity. A substantial portion of our compensation expense represents discretionary bonuses which are significantly impacted by, among other factors, the level of net revenues, prevailing labor markets, business mix and the structure of our share based compensation programs. For 2008, our ratio of compensation and benefits (excluding severance costs of approximately $275 million in the fourth quarter of 2008) to net revenues was 48.0%. Our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was 43.9% for 2007. The following table sets forth our operating expenses and number of employees: Operating Expenses and Employees ($ in millions) Year Ended November 2008 2007 2006 Compensation and benefits (1) $ 10,934 $ 20,190 $ 16,457 Brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees 2,998 2,758 1,985 Market development 485 601 492 Communications and technology 759 665 544 Depreciation and amortization 1,022 624 521 Amortization of identifiable intangible assets 240 195 173 Occupancy 960 975 850 Professional fees 779 714 545 Other expenses (2) 1,709 1,661 1,538 Total non compensation expenses 8,952 8,193 6,648 Total operating expenses $ 19,886 $ 28,383 $ 23,105 Employees at year end (3) 30,067 30,522 26,467 (1) Compensation and benefits includes $262 million, $168 million and $259 million for the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, attributable to consolidated entities held for investment purposes. Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our principal businesses. (2) Beginning in the first quarter of 2008, Cost of power generation was reclassified into Other expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. (3) Excludes 4,671, 4,572 and 3,868 employees as of November 2008, November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, of consolidated entities held for investment purposes (see footnote 1 above). 81 Table of Contents The following table sets forth non compensation expenses of consolidated entities held for investment purposes and our remaining non compensation expenses by line item: Non Compensation Expenses (in millions) Year Ended November 2008 2007 2006 Non compensation expenses of consolidated investments (1) $ 779 $ 446 $ 501 Non compensation expenses excluding consolidated investments Brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees 2,998 2,758 1,985 Market development 475 593 461 Communications and technology 754 661 537 Depreciation and amortization 631 509 444 Amortization of identifiable intangible assets 233 189 169 Occupancy 861 892 738 Professional fees 770 711 534 Other expenses (2) 1,451 1,434 1,279 Subtotal 8,173 7,747 6,147 Total non compensation expenses, as reported $ 8,952 $ 8,193 $ 6,648 (1) Consolidated entities held for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our principal businesses. For example, these investments include consolidated entities that hold real estate assets, such as hotels, but exclude investments in entities that primarily hold financial assets. We believe that it is meaningful to review non compensation expenses excluding expenses related to these consolidated entities in order to evaluate trends in non compensation expenses related to our principal business activities. Revenues related to such entities are included in Trading and principal investments in the consolidated statements of earnings. (2) Beginning in the first quarter of 2008, Cost of power generation was reclassified into Other expenses in the consolidated statements of earnings. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. 2008 versus 2007. Operating expenses were $19.89 billion for 2008, 30% lower than 2007. Compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries, bonuses, amortization of prior year equity awards and other items such as payroll taxes and benefits) of $10.93 billion decreased 46% compared with 2007, reflecting lower levels of discretionary compensation due to lower net revenues. For 2008, our ratio of compensation and benefits (excluding severance costs of approximately $275 million in the fourth quarter of 2008) to net revenues was 48.0%. Our ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues was 43.9% for 2007. Employment levels decreased 1% compared with November 2007, reflecting an 8% decrease during the fourth quarter. Non compensation expenses of $8.95 billion for 2008 increased 9% compared with 2007. Excluding consolidated entities held for investment purposes, non compensation expenses increased 5% compared with 2007. The majority of this increase was attributable to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, principally reflecting higher activity levels in Equities and FICC. The increase in non compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes primarily reflected the impact of impairment on certain real estate assets during 2008. 2007 versus 2006. Operating expenses were $28.38 billion for 2007, 23% higher than 2006. Compensation and benefits expenses of $20.19 billion increased 23% compared with 2006, reflecting increased discretionary compensation and growth in employment levels. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2007 was 43.9% compared with 43.7% for 2006. Employment levels increased 15% compared with November 2006. 82 Table of Contents Non compensation expenses of $8.19 billion for 2007 increased 23% compared with 2006, primarily attributable to higher levels of business activity and continued geographic expansion. One half of this increase was attributable to brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, principally reflecting higher transaction volumes in Equities. Professional fees, other expenses and communications and technology expenses also increased, primarily due to higher levels of business activity. Occupancy and depreciation and amortization expenses in 2007 included exit costs of $128 million related to our office space. Provision for Taxes The effective income tax rate was approximately 1% for 2008, down from 34.1% for 2007. The decrease in the effective income tax rate was primarily due to an increase in permanent benefits as a percentage of lower earnings and changes in geographic earnings mix. The effective income tax rate was 34.1% for 2007, down from 34.5% for 2006, primarily due to changes in the geographic mix of earnings. Our effective income tax rate can vary from period to period depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business mix of our earnings, the level of our pre tax earnings, the level of our tax credits and the effect of tax audits. Certain of these and other factors, including our history of pre tax earnings, are taken into account in assessing our ability to realize our net deferred tax assets. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our provision for taxes. 83 Table of Contents Segment Operating Results The following table sets forth the net revenues, operating expenses and pre tax earnings of our segments: Segment Operating Results (in millions) Year Ended November 2008 2007 2006 Investment Net revenues $ 5,185 $ 7,555 $ 5,629 Banking Operating expenses 3,143 4,985 4,062 Pre tax earnings $ 2,042 $ 2,570 $ 1,567 Trading and Principal Net revenues $ 9,063 $ 31,226 $ 25,562 Investments Operating expenses 11,808 17,998 14,962 Pre tax earnings/(loss) $ (2,745 ) $ 13,228 $ 10,600 Asset Management and Net revenues $ 7,974 $ 7,206 $ 6,474 Securities Services Operating expenses 4,939 5,363 4,036 Pre tax earnings $ 3,035 $ 1,843 $ 2,438 Total Net revenues $ 22,222 $ 45,987 $ 37,665 Operating expenses (1) 19,886 28,383 23,105 Pre tax earnings $ 2,336 $ 17,604 $ 14,560 (1) Operating expenses include net provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings of $(4) million, $37 million and $45 million for the years ended November 2008, November 2007 and November 2006, respectively, that have not been allocated to our segments. Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest income and interest expense to specific securities, commodities and other positions in relation to the cash generated by, or funding requirements of, such underlying positions. See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our business segments. The cost drivers of Goldman Sachs taken as a whole compensation, headcount and levels of business activity are broadly similar in each of our business segments. Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of Goldman Sachs as well as the performance of individual business units. Consequently, pre tax margins in one segment of our business may be significantly affected by the performance of our other business segments. A discussion of segment operating results follows. 84 Table of Contents Investment Banking Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components: Financial Advisory. Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities, restructurings and spin offs. Underwriting. Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of a wide range of securities and other financial instruments. The following table sets forth the operating results of our Investment Banking segment: Investment Banking Operating Results (in millions) Year Ended November 2008 2007 2006 Financial Advisory $ 2,656 $ 4,222 $ 2,580 Equity underwriting 1,353 1,382 1,365 Debt underwriting 1,176 1,951 1,684 Total Underwriting 2,529 3,333 3,049 Total net revenues 5,185 7,555 5,629 Operating expenses 3,143 4,985 4,062 Pre tax earnings $ 2,042 $ 2,570 $ 1,567 The following table sets forth our financial advisory and underwriting transaction volumes: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Banking Volumes (1) (in billions) Year Ended November 2008 2007 2006 Announced mergers and acquisitions $ 927 $ 1,249 $ 1,101 Completed mergers and acquisitions 823 1,443 863 Equity and equity related offerings (2) 61 66 74 Debt offerings (3) 185 345 320 (1) Source: Thomson Reuters. Announced and completed mergers and acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the advisors in a transaction. Equity and equity related offerings and debt offerings are based on full credit for single book managers and equal credit for joint book managers. Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent withdrawal or a change in the value of a previously announced transaction. (2) Includes Rule 144A and public common stock offerings, convertible offerings and rights offerings. (3) Includes non convertible preferred stock, mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities and taxable municipal debt. Includes publicly registered and Rule 144A issues. 85 Table of Contents 2008 versus 2007. Net revenues in Investment Banking of $5.19 billion for 2008 decreased 31% compared with 2007. Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $2.66 billion decreased 37% compared with particularly strong net revenues in 2007, primarily reflecting a decline in industry wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our Underwriting business of $2.53 billion decreased 24% compared with 2007, principally due to significantly lower net revenues in debt underwriting. The decrease in debt underwriting was primarily due to a decline in leveraged finance and mortgage related activity, reflecting difficult market conditions. Net revenues in equity underwriting were slightly lower compared with 2007, reflecting a decrease in industry wide equity and equity related offerings. Our investment banking transaction backlog ended the year significantly lower than at the end of 2007. (1) Operating expenses of $3.14 billion for 2008 decreased 37% compared with 2007, due to decreased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary compensation. Pre tax earnings of $2.04 billion in 2008 decreased 21% compared with 2007. 2007 versus 2006. Net revenues in Investment Banking of $7.56 billion for 2007 increased 34% compared with 2006. Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $4.22 billion increased 64% compared with 2006, primarily reflecting growth in industry wide completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our Underwriting business of $3.33 billion increased 9% compared with 2006, due to higher net revenues in debt underwriting, primarily reflecting strength in leveraged finance during the first half of 2007. Net revenues in equity underwriting were also strong, but essentially unchanged from 2006. Our investment banking transaction backlog at the end of 2007 was higher than at the end of 2006. (1) Operating expenses of $4.99 billion for 2007 increased 23% compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from higher discretionary compensation and growth in employment levels. Pre tax earnings of $2.57 billion in 2007 increased 64% compared with 2006. Trading and Principal Investments Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into three components: FICC. We make markets in and trade interest rate and credit products, mortgage related securities and loan products and other asset backed instruments, currencies and commodities, structure and enter into a wide variety of derivative transactions, and engage in proprietary trading and investing. Equities. We make markets in and trade equities and equity related products, structure and enter into equity derivative transactions and engage in proprietary trading. We generate commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our Equities client franchise and clearing activities. We also engage in specialist and insurance activities. Principal Investments. We make real estate and corporate principal investments, including our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC. We generate net revenues from returns on these investments and from the increased share of the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds when the return on a funds investments over the life of the fund exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred to as an override). (1) Our investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of our future net revenues from investment banking transactions where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely than not. 86 Table of Contents Substantially all of our inventory is marked to market daily and, therefore, its value and our net revenues are subject to fluctuations based on market movements. In addition, net revenues derived from our principal investments, including those in privately held concerns and in real estate, may fluctuate significantly depending on the revaluation of these investments in any given period. We also regularly enter into large transactions as part of our trading businesses. The number and size of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a given period. Net revenues from Principal Investments do not include management fees generated from our merchant banking funds. These management fees are included in the net revenues of the Asset Management and Securities Services segment. The following table sets forth the operating results of our Trading and Principal Investments segment: Trading and Principal Investments Operating Results (in millions) Year Ended November 2008 2007 2006 FICC $ 3,713 $ 16,165 $ 14,262 Equities trading 4,208 6,725 4,965 Equities commissions 4,998 4,579 3,518 Total Equities 9,206 11,304 8,483 ICBC (446 ) 495 937 Gross gains 1,335 3,728 2,061 Gross losses (4,815 ) (943 ) (585 ) Net other corporate and real estate investments (3,480 ) 2,785 1,476 Overrides 70 477 404 Total Principal Investments (3,856 ) 3,757 2,817 Total net revenues 9,063 31,226 25,562 Operating expenses 11,808 17,998 14,962 Pre tax earnings/(loss) $ (2,745 ) $ 13,228 $ 10,600 2008 versus 2007. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments of $9.06 billion for 2008 decreased 71% compared with 2007. Net revenues in FICC of $3.71 billion for 2008 decreased 77% compared with 2007, primarily reflecting losses in credit products, which included a loss of approximately $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to non investment grade credit origination activities and losses from investments, including corporate debt and private and public equities. Results in mortgages included net losses of approximately $1.7 billion on residential mortgage loans and securities and approximately $1.4 billion on commercial mortgage loans and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and commodities each produced particularly strong results and net revenues were higher compared with 2007. During 2008, although client driven activity was generally solid, FICC operated in a challenging environment characterized by broad based declines in asset values, wider mortgage and corporate credit spreads, reduced levels of liquidity and broad based investor deleveraging, particularly in the second half of the year. 87 Table of Contents Net revenues in Equities of $9.21 billion for 2008 decreased 19% compared with a particularly strong 2007, reflecting losses in principal strategies, partially offset by higher net revenues in the client franchise businesses. Commissions were particularly strong and were higher than 2007. During 2008, Equities operated in an environment characterized by a significant decline in global equity prices, broad based investor deleveraging and very high levels of volatility, particularly in the second half of the year. Principal Investments recorded a net loss of $3.86 billion for 2008. These results included net losses of $2.53 billion from corporate principal investments and $949 million from real estate principal investments, as well as a $446 million loss related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC. Operating expenses of $11.81 billion for 2008 decreased 34% compared with 2007, due to decreased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary compensation. This decrease was partially offset by higher non compensation expenses. Excluding consolidated entities held for investment purposes, the majority of this increase was attributable to higher brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, principally reflecting higher activity levels in Equities and FICC. The increase in non compensation expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment purposes primarily reflected the impact of impairment on certain real estate assets during 2008. Pre tax loss was $2.75 billion in 2008 compared with pre tax earnings of $13.23 billion in 2007. 2007 versus 2006. Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments of $31.23 billion for 2007 increased 22% compared with 2006. Net revenues in FICC of $16.17 billion for 2007 increased 13% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in currencies and interest rate products. In addition, net revenues in mortgages were higher despite a significant deterioration in the mortgage market throughout 2007, while net revenues in credit products were strong, but slightly lower compared with 2006. Credit products included substantial gains from equity investments, including a gain of approximately $900 million related to the disposition of Horizon Wind Energy L.L.C., as well as a loss of approximately $1 billion (net of hedges) related to non investment grade credit origination activities. Net revenues in commodities were also strong but lower compared with 2006. During 2007, FICC operated in an environment generally characterized by strong client driven activity and favorable market opportunities. However, during 2007, the mortgage market experienced significant deterioration and, in the second half of the year, the broader credit markets were characterized by wider spreads and reduced levels of liquidity. Net revenues in Equities of $11.30 billion for 2007 increased 33% compared with 2006, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in both our client franchise businesses and principal strategies. The client franchise businesses benefited from significantly higher commission volumes. During 2007, Equities operated in an environment characterized by strong client driven activity, generally higher equity prices and higher levels of volatility, particularly during the second half of the year. Principal Investments recorded net revenues of $3.76 billion for 2007, reflecting gains and overrides from corporate and real estate principal investments. Results in Principal Investments included a $495 million gain related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC and a $129 million loss related to our investment in the convertible preferred stock of SMFG. Operating expenses of $18.00 billion for 2007 increased 20% compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from higher discretionary compensation and growth in employment levels. Non compensation expenses increased due to the impact of higher levels of business activity and continued geographic expansion. The majority of this increase was in brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, which primarily reflected higher transaction volumes in Equities. Professional fees also increased, reflecting increased business activity. Pre tax earnings of $13.23 billion in 2007 increased 25% compared with 2006. 88 Table of Contents Asset Management and Securities Services Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided into two components: Asset Management. Asset Management provides investment advisory and financial planning services and offers investment products (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and primarily generates revenues in the form of management and incentive fees. Securities Services. Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing services and securities lending services to institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to high net worth individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the form of interest rate spreads or fees. Assets under management typically generate fees as a percentage of asset value, which is affected by investment performance and by inflows and redemptions. The fees that we charge vary by asset class, as do our related expenses. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a funds return or when the return on assets under management exceeds specified benchmark returns or other performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when the performance period ends and they are no longer subject to adjustment. We have numerous incentive fee arrangements, many of which have annual performance periods that end on December 31. For that reason, incentive fees have been seasonally weighted to our first quarter. The following table sets forth the operating results of our Asset Management and Securities Services segment: Asset Management and Securities Services Operating Results (in millions) Year Ended November 2008 2007 2006 Management and other fees $ 4,321 $ 4,303 $ 3,332 Incentive fees 231 187 962 Total Asset Management 4,552 4,490 4,294 Securities Services 3,422 2,716 2,180 Total net revenues 7,974 7,206 6,474 Operating expenses 4,939 5,363 4,036 Pre tax earnings $ 3,035 $ 1,843 $ 2,438 Assets under management include our mutual funds, alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and individual investors. Substantially all assets under management are valued as of calendar month end. Assets under management do not include: assets in brokerage accounts that generate commissions, mark ups and spreads based on transactional activity, our own investments in funds that we manage; or non fee paying assets, including interest bearing deposits held through our depository institution subsidiaries. 89 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our assets under management by asset class: Assets Under Management by Asset Class (in billions) As of November 30 2008 2007 2006 Alternative investments (1) $ 146 $ 151 $ 145 Equity 112 255 215 Fixed income 248 256 198 Total non money market assets 506 662 558 Money markets 273 206 118 Total assets under management $ 779 $ 868 $ 676 (1) Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies. The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in our assets under management: Changes in Assets Under Management (in billions) Year Ended November 30 2008 2007 2006 Balance, beginning of year $ 868 $ 676 $ 532 Net inflows/(outflows) Alternative investments 8 9 32 Equity (55 ) 26 16 Fixed income 14 38 29 Total non money market net inflows/(outflows) (33 ) 73 (1) 77 Money markets 67 88 17 (2) Total net inflows/(outflows) 34 161 94 (3) Net market appreciation/(depreciation) (123 ) 31 50 Balance, end of year $ 779 $ 868 $ 676 (1) Includes $7 billion in net asset inflows in connection with our acquisition of Macquarie IMM Investment Management. (2) Net of the transfer of $8 billion of money market assets under management to interest bearing deposits at GS Bank USA. (3) Includes $3 billion of net asset inflows in connection with the acquisition of our variable annuity and life insurance business. 2008 versus 2007. Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services of $7.97 billion for 2008 increased 11% compared with 2007. Asset Management net revenues of $4.55 billion for 2008 increased 1% compared with 2007. During 2008, assets under management decreased $89 billion to $779 billion, due to $123 billion of market depreciation, primarily in equity assets, partially offset by $34 billion of net inflows. Net inflows reflected inflows in money market, fixed income and alternative investment assets, partially offset by outflows in equity assets. 90 Table of Contents Securities Services net revenues of $3.42 billion for 2008 increased 26% compared with 2007, reflecting the impact of changes in the composition of securities lending customer balances, as well as higher total average customer balances. Operating expenses of $4.94 billion for 2008 decreased 8% compared with 2007, due to decreased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary compensation. Pre tax earnings of $3.04 billion in 2008 increased 65% compared with 2007. 2007 versus 2006. Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services of $7.21 billion for 2007 increased 11% compared with 2006. Asset Management net revenues of $4.49 billion for 2007 increased 5% compared with 2006, reflecting a 29% increase in management and other fees, partially offset by significantly lower incentive fees. Incentive fees were $187 million for 2007 compared with $962 million for 2006. During 2007, assets under management increased $192 billion, or 28%, to $868 billion, reflecting non money market net inflows of $73 billion (1), primarily in fixed income and equity assets, money market net inflows of $88 billion, and net market appreciation of $31 billion, reflecting appreciation in fixed income and equity assets, partially offset by depreciation in alternative investment assets. Securities Services net revenues of $2.72 billion for 2007 increased 25% compared with 2006, as our prime brokerage business continued to generate strong results, primarily reflecting significantly higher customer balances in securities lending and margin lending. Operating expenses of $5.36 billion for 2007 increased 33% compared with 2006, primarily due to increased compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from higher discretionary compensation and growth in employment levels, and higher distribution fees (included in brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees). Pre tax earnings of $1.84 billion in 2007 decreased 24% compared with 2006. Geographic Data See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for a summary of our total net revenues, pre tax earnings and net earnings by geographic region. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have various types of off balance sheet arrangements that we enter into in the ordinary course of business. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many different forms, including purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in mortgage backed and other asset backed securitization vehicles; holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and general partnerships, and preferred and common stock in other nonconsolidated vehicles; entering into interest rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit derivatives, including total return swaps; entering into operating leases; and providing guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments, letters of credit and representations and warranties. We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business purposes, including the securitization of commercial and residential mortgages, home equity and auto loans, government and corporate bonds, and other types of financial assets. Other reasons for entering into these arrangements include underwriting client securitization transactions; providing secondary market liquidity; making investments in performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real estate and other assets; providing investors with credit linked and asset repackaged notes; and receiving or providing letters of credit to satisfy margin requirements and to facilitate the clearance and settlement process. (1) Includes $7 billion in net asset inflows in connection with our acquisition of Macquarie IMM Investment Management. 91 Table of Contents We engage in transactions with variable interest entities (VIEs) and qualifying special purpose entities (QSPEs). Such vehicles are critical to the functioning of several significant investor markets, including the mortgage backed and other asset backed securities markets, since they offer investors access to specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization process. Our financial interests in, and derivative transactions with, such nonconsolidated entities are accounted for at fair value, in the same manner as our other financial instruments, except in cases where we apply the equity method of accounting. We did not have off balance sheet commitments to purchase or finance any CDOs held by structured investment vehicles as of November 2008 or November 2007. In December 2007, the American Securitization Forum (ASF) issued the Streamlined Foreclosure and Loss Avoidance Framework for Securitized Subprime Adjustable Rate Mortgage Loans (ASF Framework). The ASF Framework provides guidance for servicers to streamline borrower evaluation procedures and to facilitate the use of foreclosure and loss prevention measures for securitized subprime residential mortgages that meet certain criteria. For certain eligible loans as defined in the ASF Framework, servicers may presume default is reasonably foreseeable and apply a fast track loan modification plan, under which the loan interest rate will be kept at the introductory rate for a period of five years following the upcoming reset date. Mortgage loan modifications of these eligible loans will not affect our accounting treatment for QSPEs that hold the subprime loans. The following table sets forth where a discussion of off balance sheet arrangements may be found in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K: Type of Off Balance Sheet Arrangement Disclosure in our Annual Report on Form 10 K Retained interests or contingent interests in assets transferred by us to nonconsolidated entities See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Leases, letters of credit, and loans and other commitments See Contractual Obligations and Commitments below and Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Guarantees See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Other obligations, including contingent obligations, arising out of variable interests we have in nonconsolidated entities See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. Derivative contracts See Critical Accounting Policies above, and Risk Management and Derivatives below and Notes 3 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. In addition, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for a discussion of our consolidation policies. 92 Table of Contents Equity Capital The level and composition of our equity capital are principally determined by our consolidated regulatory capital requirements but may also be influenced by rating agency guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, the business environment, conditions in the financial markets and assessments of potential future losses due to extreme and adverse changes in our business and market environments. As of November 2008, our total shareholders equity was $64.37 billion (consisting of common shareholders equity of $47.90 billion and preferred stock of $16.47 billion) compared with total shareholders equity of $42.80 billion as of November 2007 (consisting of common shareholders equity of $39.70 billion and preferred stock of $3.10 billion). In addition to total shareholders equity, we consider the $5.00 billion of junior subordinated debt issued to trusts (see discussion below) to be part of our equity capital, as it qualifies as capital for regulatory and certain rating agency purposes. Consolidated Capital Requirements We are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered by the U.S. federal banking agencies. Our bank depository institution subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA, are subject to similar capital guidelines. Under the Federal Reserve Boards capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action (PCA) that is applicable to GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs and its bank depository institution subsidiaries must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory reporting practices. Goldman Sachs and its bank depository institution subsidiaries capital amounts, as well as GS Bank USAs PCA classification, are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. We anticipate reporting capital ratios as follows: Before we became a bank holding company, we were subject to capital guidelines by the SEC as a Consolidated Supervised Entity (CSE) that were generally consistent with those set out in the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II). We currently compute and report our firmwide capital ratios in accordance with the Basel II requirements as applicable to us when we were regulated as a CSE for the purpose of assessing the adequacy of our capital. Under the Basel II framework as it applied to us when we were regulated as a CSE, we evaluate our Tier 1 Capital and Total Allowable Capital as a percentage of RWAs. As of November 2008, our Total Capital Ratio (Total Allowable Capital as a percentage of RWAs) was 18.9% and our Tier 1 Ratio (Tier 1 Capital as a percentage of RWAs) was 15.6%, in each case calculated under the Basel II framework as it applied to us when we were regulated as a CSE. See Consolidated Capital Ratios below for further information. We expect to continue to report to investors for a period of time our Basel II capital ratios as applicable to us when we were regulated as a CSE. The regulatory capital guidelines currently applicable to bank holding companies are based on the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I), with Basel II to be phased in over time. We are currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to put in place the appropriate reporting and compliance mechanisms and methodologies to allow reporting of the Basel I capital ratios as of the end of March 2009. In addition, we are currently working to implement the Basel II framework as applicable to us as a bank holding company (as opposed to as a CSE). U.S. banking regulators have incorporated the Basel II framework into the existing risk based capital requirements by requiring that internationally active banking organizations, such as Group Inc., transition to Basel II over the next several years. The Federal Reserve Board also has established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. We were not subject to these guidelines before becoming a bank holding company and, accordingly, we are currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize our methodology for calculating this ratio. 93 Table of Contents The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital (as applicable to us as a bank holding company) divided by adjusted average total assets (which includes adjustments for disallowed goodwill and certain intangible assets). The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that have received the highest supervisory rating under Federal Reserve Board guidelines or that have implemented the Federal Reserve Boards risk based capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. As of November 2008, our estimated Tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.1%. This ratio represents a preliminary estimate and may be revised in subsequent filings as we continue to work with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize the methodology for the calculation. Consolidated Capital Ratios The following table sets forth additional information on our capital ratios as of November 2008 calculated in the same manner (generally consistent with Basel II) as when the firm was regulated by the SEC as a CSE: As of November 2008 ($ in millions) I. Tier 1 and Total Allowable Capital Common shareholders equity $ 47,898 Preferred stock 16,471 Junior subordinated debt issued to trusts 5,000 Less: Goodwill (3,523 ) Less: Disallowable intangible assets (1,386 ) Less: Other deductions (1) (1,823 ) Tier 1 Capital 62,637 Other components of Total Allowable Capital Qualifying subordinated debt (2) 13,703 Less: Other deductions (1) (690 ) Total Allowable Capital $ 75,650 II. Risk Weighted Assets Market risk $ 176,646 Credit risk 184,055 Operational risk 39,675 Total Risk Weighted Assets $ 400,376 III. Tier 1 Ratio 15.6 % IV. Total Capital Ratio 18.9 % (1) Principally included investments in regulated insurance entities and certain financial service entities (50% was deducted from both Tier 1 Capital and Total Allowable Capital). (2) Substantially all of our existing subordinated debt qualified as Total Allowable Capital for CSE purposes. Our RWAs are driven by the amount of market risk, credit risk and operational risk associated with our business activities in a manner generally consistent with methodologies set out in Basel II. The methodologies used to compute RWAs for each of market risk, credit risk and operational risk are closely aligned with our risk management practices. See Market Risk and Credit Risk below for a discussion of how we manage risks in our trading and principal investing businesses. Further details on the methodologies used to calculate RWAs are set forth below. 94 Table of Contents Risk Weighted Assets for Market Risk For positions captured in VaR, RWAs are calculated using VaR and other model based measures, including requirements for incremental default risk and other event risks. VaR is the potential loss in value of trading positions due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a specified confidence level. Market risk RWAs are calculated consistent with the specific conditions set out in the Basel II framework (based on VaR calibrated to a 99% confidence level, over a 10 day holding period, multiplied by a factor). Additional RWAs are calculated with respect to incremental default risk and other event risks, in a manner generally consistent with our internal risk management methodologies. For positions not included in VaR because VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk, we calculate RWAs based on alternative methodologies, including sensitivity analyses. Risk Weighted Assets for Credit Risk RWAs for credit risk are calculated for on and off balance sheet exposures that are not captured in our market risk RWAs, with the exception of OTC derivatives for which both market risk and credit risk RWAs are calculated. The calculations are consistent with the Advanced Internal Ratings Based (AIRB) approach and the Internal Models Method (IMM) of Basel II, and were based on Exposure at Default (EAD), which is an estimate of the amount that would be owed to us at the time of a default, multiplied by each counterpartys risk weight. Under the Basel II AIRB approach, a counterpartys risk weight is generally derived from a combination of the Probability of Default (PD), the Loss Given Default (LGD) and the maturity of the trade or portfolio of trades, where: PD is an estimate of the probability that an obligor will default over a one year horizon. PD is derived from the use of internally determined equivalents of public rating agency ratings. LGD is an estimate of the economic loss rate if a default occurs during economic downturn conditions. LGD is determined based on industry data. For OTC derivatives and funding trades (such as repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions), we use the Basel II IMM approach, which allows EAD to be calculated using model based measures to determine potential exposure, consistent with models and methodologies that we use for internal risk management purposes. For commitments, EAD is calculated as a percentage of the outstanding notional balance. For other credit exposures, EAD is generally the carrying value of the exposure. Risk Weighted Assets for Operational Risk RWAs for operational risk are calculated using a risk based methodology consistent with the qualitative and quantitative criteria for the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA), as defined in Basel II. The methodology incorporates internal loss events, relevant external loss events, results of scenario analyses and managements assessment of our business environment and internal controls. We estimate capital requirements for both expected and unexpected losses, seeking to capture the major drivers of operational risk over a one year time horizon, at a 99.9% confidence level. Operational risk capital is allocated among our businesses and is regularly reported to senior management and key risk and oversight committees. Rating Agency Guidelines The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the obligations of Group Inc., which directly issues or guarantees substantially all of the firms senior unsecured obligations. The level and composition of our equity capital are among the many factors considered in determining our credit ratings. Each agency has its own definition of eligible capital and methodology for evaluating capital 95 Table of Contents adequacy, and assessments are generally based on a combination of factors rather than a single calculation. See Liquidity and Funding Risk Credit Ratings below for further information regarding our credit ratings. Subsidiary Capital Requirements Many of our subsidiaries are subject to separate regulation and capital requirements in the U.S. and or elsewhere. GSCo. and Goldman Sachs Execution Clearing, L.P. are registered U.S. broker dealers and futures commissions merchants, and are subject to regulatory capital requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Chicago Board of Trade, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA) and the National Futures Association. Our depository institution subsidiary, GS Bank USA, a New York State chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State Banking Department and is subject to minimum capital requirements that (subject to certain exceptions) are similar to those applicable to bank holding companies. GS Bank USA was formed in November 2008 through the merger of our existing Utah industrial bank (named GS Bank USA) into our New York limited purpose trust company, with the surviving company taking the name GS Bank USA. As of November 2007, GS Bank USAs predecessor was a wholly owned industrial bank regulated by the Utah Department of Financial Institutions, was a member of the FDIC and was subject to minimum capital requirements. We compute the capital ratios for GS Bank USA in accordance with the Basel I framework for purposes of assessing the adequacy of its capital. In order to be considered a well capitalized depository institution under the Federal Reserve Board guidelines, GS Bank USA must maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6%, a total capital ratio of at least 10%, and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. In connection with the November 2008 asset transfer described below, GS Bank USA agreed with the Federal Reserve Board to minimum capital ratios in excess of these well capitalized levels. Accordingly, for a period of time, GS Bank USA is expected to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, a total capital ratio of at least 11% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 6%. In November 2008, we contributed subsidiaries with an aggregate of $117.16 billion of assets into GS Bank USA (which brought total assets in GS Bank USA to $145.06 billion as of November 2008). As a result, we are currently working with the Federal Reserve Board to finalize our methodology for the Basel I calculations. As of November 2008, under Basel I, GS Bank USAs estimated Tier 1 capital ratio was 8.9% and estimated total capital ratio was 11.6%. In addition, GS Bank USAs estimated Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.1%. Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of GSCo., GS Bank USA and GS Bank Europe, subject to certain exceptions. In November 2008, as noted above, we contributed subsidiaries, with an aggregate of $117.16 billion of assets, into GS Bank USA and Group Inc. agreed to guarantee certain losses, including credit related losses, relating to assets held by the contributed entities. In connection with this guarantee, Group Inc. also agreed to pledge to GS Bank USA certain collateral, including interests in subsidiaries and other illiquid assets. GS Bank Europe, our regulated Irish bank, is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. Several other subsidiaries of Goldman Sachs are regulated by securities, investment advisory, banking, insurance, and other regulators and authorities around the world. Goldman Sachs International (GSI), our regulated U.K. broker dealer, is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by the Financial Services Authority (FSA). Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd., our regulated Japanese broker dealer, is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed by Japans Financial Services Agency. As of November 2008 and November 2007, these subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital requirements. As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency requirements (for entities with assigned credit ratings) or 96 Table of Contents internal policies, including policies concerning the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based on its underlying level of risk. See Liquidity and Funding Risk Conservative Liability Structure below for a discussion of our potential inability to access funds from our subsidiaries. Equity investments in subsidiaries are generally funded with parent company equity capital. As of November 2008, Group Inc.s equity investment in subsidiaries was $51.70 billion compared with its total shareholders equity of $64.37 billion. Our capital invested in non U.S. subsidiaries is generally exposed to foreign exchange risk, substantially all of which is managed through a combination of derivative contracts and non U.S. denominated debt. In addition, we generally manage the non trading exposure to foreign exchange risk that arises from transactions denominated in currencies other than the transacting entitys functional currency. See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our regulated subsidiaries. Equity Capital Management Our objective is to maintain a sufficient level and optimal composition of equity capital. We manage our capital through repurchases of our common stock, as permitted, and issuances of common and preferred stock, junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and other subordinated debt. We manage our capital requirements principally by setting limits on balance sheet assets and or limits on risk, in each case at both the consolidated and business unit levels. We attribute capital usage to each of our business units based upon our regulatory capital framework and manage the levels of usage based upon the balance sheet and risk limits established. Share Repurchase Program. Subject to the limitations of the U.S. Treasurys TARP Capital Purchase Program described below under Equity Capital Equity Capital Management Preferred Stock, we seek to use our share repurchase program to substantially offset increases in share count over time resulting from employee share based compensation. The repurchase program is effected primarily through regular open market purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined primarily by our current and projected capital positions (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of capital to our actual level of capital) but which may also be influenced by general market conditions and the prevailing price and trading volumes of our common stock, in each case subject to the limit imposed under the U.S. Treasurys TARP Capital Purchase Program. See Equity Capital Equity Capital Management Preferred Stock below for information regarding restrictions on our ability to repurchase common stock. The following table sets forth the level of share repurchases for the years ended November 2008 and November 2007: As of November 2008 2007 (in millions, except per share amounts) Number of shares repurchased 10.54 41.22 Total cost $ 2,037 $ 8,956 Average cost per share $ 193.18 $ 217.29 As of November 2008, we were authorized to repurchase up to 60.9 million additional shares of common stock pursuant to our repurchase program. See Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities in Part II, Item 5 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for additional information on our repurchase program. Stock Offerings. In September 2008, we completed a public offering of 46.7 million shares of common stock at $123.00 per share for proceeds of $5.75 billion. 97 Table of Contents In October 2008, we issued to Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and certain affiliates 50,000 shares of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G (Series G Preferred Stock), and a five year warrant to purchase up to 43.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $115.00 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $5.00 billion. The allocated carrying values of the warrant and the Series G Preferred Stock on the date of issuance (based on their relative fair values) were $1.14 billion and $3.86 billion, respectively. The warrant is exercisable at any time until October 1, 2013 and the number of shares of common stock underlying the warrant and the exercise price are subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events. In October 2008, under the U.S. Treasurys TARP Capital Purchase Program, we issued to the U.S. Treasury 10.0 million shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H (Series H Preferred Stock), and a 10 year warrant to purchase up to 12.2 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of $122.90 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $10.00 billion. The allocated carrying values of the warrant and the Series H Preferred Stock on the date of issuance (based on their relative fair values) were $490 million and $9.51 billion, respectively. Cumulative dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock are payable at 5% per annum through November 14, 2013 and at a rate of 9% per annum thereafter. The Series H Preferred Stock will be accreted to the redemption price of $10.00 billion over five years. The warrant is exercisable at any time until October 28, 2018 and the number of shares of common stock underlying the warrant and the exercise price are subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events. If, on or prior to December 31, 2009, we receive aggregate gross cash proceeds of at least $10 billion from sales of Tier 1 qualifying perpetual preferred stock or common stock, the number of shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant will be reduced by one half of the original number of shares of common stock. Preferred Stock. As of November 2008, Goldman Sachs had 10.2 million shares of perpetual preferred stock issued and outstanding as set forth in the following table: Preferred Stock by Series Dividend Shares Shares Earliest Redemption Value Series Preference Issued Authorized Dividend Rate Redemption Date (in millions) A Non cumulative 30,000 50,000 3 month LIBOR + 0.75%, with floor of 3.75% per annum April 25, 2010 $ 750 B Non cumulative 32,000 50,000 6.20% per annum October 31, 2010 800 C Non cumulative 8,000 25,000 3 month LIBOR + 0.75%, with floor of 4.00% per annum October 31, 2010 200 D Non cumulative 54,000 60,000 3 month LIBOR + 0.67%, with floor of 4.00% per annum May 24, 2011 1,350 G Cumulative 50,000 50,000 10.00% per annum Date of issuance 5,500 H Cumulative 10,000,000 10,000,000 5.00% per annum through November 14, 2013 and 9.00% per annum thereafter Date of issuance 10,000 10,174,000 10,235,000 $ 18,600 Each share of non cumulative preferred stock issued and outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation preference of $25,000, is represented by 1,000 depositary shares and is redeemable at our option, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 plus declared and unpaid dividends. Each share of Series G Preferred Stock issued and outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation preference of $100,000 and is redeemable at our option, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption price equal to $110,000 plus accrued and unpaid dividends. Each share of Series H Preferred Stock issued and outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation preference of $1,000 and is redeemable at our option, subject to the approval of the 98 Table of Contents Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption price equal to $1,000 plus accrued and unpaid dividends, provided that through November 14, 2011 the Series H Preferred Stock is redeemable only in an amount up to the aggregate net cash proceeds received from sales of Tier 1 qualifying perpetual preferred stock or common stock, and only once such sales have resulted in aggregate gross proceeds of at least $2.5 billion. All series of preferred stock are pari passu and have a preference over our common stock upon liquidation. Dividends on each series of preferred stock, if declared, are payable quarterly in arrears. Our ability to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, our common stock is subject to certain restrictions in the event that we fail to pay or set aside full dividends on our preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period. In addition, pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys TARP Capital Purchase Program, until the earliest of October 28, 2011, the redemption of all of the Series H Preferred Stock or transfer by the U.S. Treasury of all of the Series H Preferred Stock to third parties, we must obtain the consent of the U.S. Treasury to raise our common stock dividend or to repurchase any shares of common stock or other preferred stock, with certain exceptions (including repurchases of our common stock under our share repurchase program to offset dilution from equity based compensation). For as long as the Series H Preferred Stock remains outstanding, due to the limitations pursuant to the U.S. Treasurys TARP Capital Purchase Program, we will repurchase our common stock through our share repurchase program only for the purpose of offsetting dilution from equity based compensation, to the extent permitted. Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to Trusts in Connection with Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities. In 2007, we issued $1.75 billion of fixed rate junior subordinated debt to Goldman Sachs Capital II and $500 million of floating rate junior subordinated debt to Goldman Sachs Capital III, Delaware statutory trusts that, in turn, issued $2.25 billion of guaranteed perpetual Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities (APEX) to third parties and a de minimis amount of common securities to Goldman Sachs. The junior subordinated debt is included in Unsecured long term borrowings in the consolidated statements of financial condition. In connection with the APEX issuance, we entered into stock purchase contracts with Goldman Sachs Capital II and III under which we will be obligated to sell and these entities will be obligated to purchase $2.25 billion of perpetual non cumulative preferred stock that we will issue in the future. Goldman Sachs Capital II and III are required to remarket the junior subordinated debt in order to fund their purchase of the preferred stock, but in the event that a remarketing is unsuccessful, they will relinquish the subordinated debt to us in exchange for the preferred stock. Because of certain characteristics of the junior subordinated debt (and the associated APEX), including its long term nature, the future issuance of perpetual non cumulative preferred stock under the stock purchase contracts, our ability to defer payments due on the debt and the subordinated nature of the debt in our capital structure, it qualifies as Tier 1 and Total Allowable Capital and is included as part of our equity capital. Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust in Connection with Trust Preferred Securities. We issued $2.84 billion of junior subordinated debentures in 2004 to Goldman Sachs Capital I, a Delaware statutory trust that, in turn, issued $2.75 billion of guaranteed preferred beneficial interests to third parties and $85 million of common beneficial interests to Goldman Sachs. The junior subordinated debentures are included in Unsecured long term borrowings in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Because of certain characteristics of the junior subordinated debt (and the associated trust preferred securities), including its long term nature, our ability to defer coupon interest for up to ten consecutive semi annual periods and the subordinated nature of the debt in our capital structure, it qualifies as Tier 1 and Total Allowable Capital and is included as part of our equity capital. Subordinated Debt. In addition to junior subordinated debt issued to trusts, we had other subordinated debt outstanding of $14.17 billion as of November 2008. Although not part of our shareholders equity, substantially all of our subordinated debt qualifies as Total Allowable Capital. 99 Table of Contents Other Capital Ratios and Metrics The following table sets forth information on our assets, shareholders equity, leverage ratios and book value per common share: As of November 2008 2007 ($ in millions, except per share amounts) Total assets $ 884,547 $ 1,119,796 Adjusted assets (1) 528,161 745,700 Total shareholders equity 64,369 42,800 Tangible equity capital (2) 64,186 42,728 Leverage ratio (3) 13.7 x 26.2 x Adjusted leverage ratio (4) 8.2 x 17.5 x Debt to equity ratio (5) 2.6 x 3.8 x Common shareholders equity $ 47,898 $ 39,700 Tangible common shareholders equity (6) 42,715 34,628 Book value per common share (7) $ 98.68 $ 90.43 Tangible book value per common share (8) 88.00 78.88 (1) Adjusted assets excludes (i) low risk collateralized assets generally associated with our matched book and securities lending businesses and federal funds sold, (ii) cash and securities we segregate for regulatory and other purposes and (iii) goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total assets in order to be consistent with the calculation of tangible equity capital and the adjusted leverage ratio (see footnote 2 below). The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total assets to adjusted assets: As of November 2008 2007 (in millions) Total assets $ 884,547 $ 1,119,796 Deduct: Securities borrowed (180,795 ) (277,413 ) Securities purchased under agreements to resell, at fair value and federal funds sold (122,021 ) (87,317 ) Add: Trading liabilities, at fair value 175,972 215,023 Less derivative liabilities (117,695 ) (99,378 ) Subtotal 58,277 115,645 Deduct: Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes (106,664 ) (119,939 ) Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts (5,183 ) (5,072 ) Adjusted assets $ 528,161 $ 745,700 (2) Tangible equity capital equals total shareholders equity and junior subordinated debt issued to trusts less goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total shareholders equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common shareholders equity. We consider junior subordinated debt issued to trusts to be a component of our tangible equity capital base due to certain characteristics of the debt, including its long term nature, our ability to defer payments due on the debt and the subordinated nature of the debt in our capital structure. The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total shareholders equity to tangible equity capital: As of November 2008 2007 (in millions) Total shareholders equity $ 64,369 $ 42,800 Add: Junior subordinated debt issued to trusts 5,000 5,000 Deduct: Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts (5,183 ) (5,072 ) Tangible equity capital $ 64,186 $ 42,728 100 Table of Contents (3) The leverage ratio equals total assets divided by total shareholders equity. This ratio is different from the Tier 1 leverage ratios included in Equity Capital Consolidated Capital Requirements and Equity Capital Subsidiary Capital Requirements above. (4) The adjusted leverage ratio equals adjusted assets divided by tangible equity capital. We believe that the adjusted leverage ratio is a more meaningful measure of our capital adequacy than the leverage ratio because it excludes certain low risk collateralized assets that are generally supported with little or no capital and reflects the tangible equity capital deployed in our businesses. (5) The debt to equity ratio equals unsecured long term borrowings divided by total shareholders equity. (6) Tangible common shareholders equity equals total shareholders equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts. We do not deduct identifiable intangible assets associated with power contracts from total shareholders equity because, unlike other intangible assets, less than 50% of these assets are supported by common shareholders equity. The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total shareholders equity to tangible common shareholders equity: As of November 2008 2007 (in millions) Total shareholders equity $ 64,369 $ 42,800 Deduct: Preferred stock (16,471 ) (3,100 ) Common shareholders equity 47,898 39,700 Deduct: Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, excluding power contracts (5,183 ) (5,072 ) Tangible common shareholders equity $ 42,715 $ 34,628 (7) Book value per common share is based on common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements, of 485.4 million and 439.0 million as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. (8) Tangible book value per common share is computed by dividing tangible common shareholders equity by the number of common shares outstanding, including restricted stock units granted to employees with no future service requirements. 101 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments Goldman Sachs has contractual obligations to make future payments related to our unsecured long term borrowings, secured long term financings, long term noncancelable lease agreements and purchase obligations and has commitments under a variety of commercial arrangements. The following table sets forth our contractual obligations by fiscal maturity date as of November 2008: Contractual Obligations (in millions) 2010 2012 2014 2009 2011 2013 Thereafter Total Unsecured long term borrowings (1)(2)(3) $ $ 25,122 $ 38,750 $ 104,348 $ 168,220 Secured long term financings (1)(2)(4) 6,735 4,417 6,306 17,458 Contractual interest payments (5) 8,145 14,681 11,947 34,399 69,172 Insurance liabilities (6) 642 951 791 4,879 7,263 Minimum rental payments 494 800 535 1,664 3,493 Purchase obligations 569 132 21 21 743 (1) Obligations maturing within one year of our financial statement date or redeemable within one year of our financial statement date at the option of the holder are excluded from this table and are treated as short term obligations. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our secured financings. (2) Obligations that are repayable prior to maturity at the option of Goldman Sachs are reflected at their contractual maturity dates. Obligations that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder are reflected at the dates such options become exercisable. (3) Includes $17.45 billion accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 155 or SFAS No. 159, primarily consisting of hybrid financial instruments and prepaid physical commodity transactions. (4) These obligations are reported within Other secured financings in the consolidated statements of financial condition and include $7.85 billion accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 159. (5) Represents estimated future interest payments related to unsecured long term borrowings and secured long term financings based on applicable interest rates as of November 2008. Includes stated coupons, if any, on structured notes. (6) Represents estimated undiscounted payments related to future benefits and unpaid claims arising from policies associated with our insurance activities, excluding separate accounts and estimated recoveries under reinsurance contracts. As of November 2008, our unsecured long term borrowings were $168.22 billion, with maturities extending to 2043, and consisted principally of senior borrowings. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our unsecured long term borrowings. As of November 2008, our future minimum rental payments, net of minimum sublease rentals, under noncancelable leases were $3.49 billion. These lease commitments, principally for office space, expire on various dates through 2069. Certain agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for increases in real estate taxes and other charges. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our leases. Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our current and future space capacity in relation to current and projected staffing levels. In 2008, we incurred exit costs of $80 million related to our office space (included in 102 Table of Contents Occupancy and Depreciation and Amortization in the consolidated statement of earnings). We may incur exit costs in the future to the extent we (i) reduce our space capacity or (ii) commit to, or occupy, new properties in the locations in which we operate and, consequently, dispose of existing space that had been held for potential growth. These exit costs may be material to our results of operations in a given period. As of November 2008, included in purchase obligations was $483 million of construction related obligations. Our construction related obligations include commitments of $388 million related to our new headquarters in New York City, which is expected to cost between $2.1 billion and $2.3 billion. We have partially financed this construction project with $1.65 billion of tax exempt Liberty Bonds. Due to the uncertainty of the timing and amounts that will ultimately be paid, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits has been excluded from the above contractual obligations table. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information on FIN 48. The following table sets forth our commitments as of November 2008: Commitments (in millions) Commitment Amount by Fiscal Period of Expiration 2010 2012 2014 2009 2011 2013 Thereafter Total Commitments to extend credit Commercial lending: Investment grade $ 3,587 $ 2,705 $ 1,538 $ 177 $ 8,007 Non investment grade 1,188 1,767 5,708 655 9,318 William Street program 3,300 6,715 12,178 417 22,610 Warehouse financing 604 497 1,101 Total commitments to extend credit (1) 8,679 11,684 19,424 1,249 41,036 Forward starting resale and securities borrowing agreements 61,455 61,455 Forward starting repurchase and securities lending agreements 6,948 6,948 Commitments under letters of credit issued by banks to counterparties 6,953 101 197 7,251 Investment commitments 6,398 7,144 101 623 14,266 Underwriting commitments 241 241 Total $ 90,674 $ 18,929 $ 19,722 $ 1,872 $ 131,197 (1) Commitments to extend credit are net of amounts syndicated to third parties. Our commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to counterparties that have fixed termination dates and are contingent on the satisfaction of all conditions to borrowing set forth in the contract. In connection with our lending activities, we had outstanding commitments to extend credit of $41.04 billion as of November 2008. Since these commitments may expire unused or be reduced or cancelled at the counterpartys request, the total commitment amount does not necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow requirements. Our commercial lending commitments are generally extended in connection with contingent acquisition financing and other types of corporate lending as well as commercial real estate financing. We may seek to reduce our credit risk on these commitments by syndicating all or substantial portions of commitments to other investors in the future. In addition, 103 Table of Contents commitments that are extended for contingent acquisition financing are often intended to be short term in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other funding sources. Included within non investment grade commitments as of November 2008 was $2.07 billion of exposure to leveraged lending capital market transactions, $164 million related to commercial real estate transactions and $7.09 billion arising from other unfunded credit facilities. Including funded loans, our total exposure to leveraged lending capital market transactions was $7.97 billion as of November 2008. The following table sets forth our exposure to leveraged lending capital market transactions by geographic region: Leveraged Lending Capital Market Exposure by Geographic Region (in millions) As of November 2008 Funded Unfunded Total Americas (1) $ 3,036 $ 1,735 $ 4,771 EMEA (2) 2,294 259 2,553 Asia 568 73 641 Total $ 5,898 $ 2,067 $ 7,965 (1) Substantially all relates to the U.S. (2) EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa). Substantially all of the commitments provided under the William Street credit extension program are to investment grade corporate borrowers. Commitments under the program are principally extended by William Street Commitment Corporation (Commitment Corp.), a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of GS Bank USA, and also by William Street Credit Corporation, GS Bank USA or Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. The commitments extended by Commitment Corp. are supported, in part, by funding raised by William Street Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.), another consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of GS Bank USA. The assets and liabilities of Commitment Corp. and Funding Corp. are legally separated from other assets and liabilities of the firm. With respect to most of the William Street commitments, SMFG provides us with credit loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of the first loss we realize on approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of $1.00 billion. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will provide protection for 70% of additional losses on such commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion, of which $375 million of protection has been provided as of November 2008. We also use other financial instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William Street commitments not covered by SMFG. Our commitments to extend credit also include financing for the warehousing of financial assets. These arrangements are secured by the warehoused assets, primarily consisting of commercial mortgages as of November 2008. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our commitments, contingencies and guarantees. 104 Table of Contents Risk Management Management believes that effective risk management is of primary importance to the success of Goldman Sachs. Accordingly, we have a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and manage the principal risks we assume in conducting our activities. These risks include market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and reputational exposures. Risk Management Structure We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a variety of separate but complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. In addition, a number of committees are responsible for monitoring risk exposures and for general oversight of our risk management process, as described further below. These committees (including their subcommittees), meet regularly and consist of senior members of both our revenue producing units and departments that are independent of our revenue producing units. Segregation of duties and management oversight are fundamental elements of our risk management process. In addition to the committees described below, functions that are independent of the revenue producing units, such as Compliance, Finance, Legal, Management Controls (Internal Audit) and Operations, perform risk management functions, which include monitoring, analyzing and evaluating risk. Management Committee. All risk control functions ultimately report to our Management Committee. Through both direct and delegated authority, the Management Committee approves all of our operating activities and trading risk parameters. Risk Committees. The Firmwide Risk Committee reviews the activities of existing trading businesses, approves new businesses and products, approves firmwide market risk limits, reviews business unit market risk limits, approves market risk limits for selected sovereign markets and business units, approves sovereign credit risk limits and credit risk limits by ratings group, and reviews scenario analyses based on abnormal or catastrophic market movements. The Securities Divisional Risk Committee sets market risk limits for our trading activities subject to overall firmwide risk limits, based on a number of measures, including VaR, stress tests and scenario analyses. Business unit risk limits are established by the appropriate risk committee and may be further allocated by the business unit managers to individual trading desks. Trading desk managers have the first line of responsibility for managing risk within prescribed limits. These managers have in depth knowledge of the primary sources of risk in their respective markets and the instruments available to hedge their exposures. Market risk limits are monitored by the Finance Division and are reviewed regularly by the appropriate risk committee. Limit violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee and business unit managers and addressed, as necessary. Credit risk limits are also monitored by the Finance Division and reviewed by the appropriate risk committee. The Asset Management Divisional Risk Committee oversees various risk, valuation and credit issues related to our asset management business. Business Practices Committee. The Business Practices Committee assists senior management in its oversight of compliance and operational risks and related reputational concerns, seeks to ensure the consistency of our policies, practices and procedures with our Business Principles, and makes recommendations on ways to mitigate potential risks. 105 Table of Contents Firmwide Capital Committee. The Firmwide Capital Committee reviews and approves transactions involving commitments of our capital. Such capital commitments include, but are not limited to, extensions of credit, alternative liquidity commitments, certain bond underwritings and certain distressed debt and principal finance activities. The Firmwide Capital Committee is also responsible for establishing business and reputational standards for capital commitments and seeking to ensure that they are maintained on a global basis. Commitments Committee. The Commitments Committee reviews and approves underwriting and distribution activities, primarily with respect to offerings of equity and equity related securities, and sets and maintains policies and procedures designed to ensure that legal, reputational, regulatory and business standards are maintained in conjunction with these activities. In addition to reviewing specific transactions, the Commitments Committee periodically conducts strategic reviews of industry sectors and products and establishes policies in connection with transaction practices. Credit Policy Committee. The Credit Policy Committee establishes and reviews broad credit policies and parameters that are implemented by the Credit Department. Finance Committee. The Finance Committee establishes and oversees our liquidity policies, sets certain inventory position limits and has oversight responsibility for liquidity risk, the size and composition of our balance sheet and capital base, and our credit ratings. The Finance Committee regularly reviews our funding position and capitalization and makes adjustments in light of current events, risks and exposures. New Products Committee. The New Products Committee, under the oversight of the Firmwide Risk Committee, is responsible for reviewing and approving new products and businesses globally. Operational Risk Committee. The Operational Risk Committee provides oversight of the ongoing development and implementation of our operational risk policies, framework and methodologies, and monitors the effectiveness of operational risk management. Structured Products Committee. The Structured Products Committee reviews and approves structured product transactions entered into with our clients that raise legal, regulatory, tax or accounting issues or present reputational risk to Goldman Sachs. Market Risk The potential for changes in the market value of our trading and investing positions is referred to as market risk. Such positions result from market making, proprietary trading, underwriting, specialist and investing activities. Substantially all of our inventory positions are marked to market on a daily basis and changes are recorded in net revenues. Categories of market risk include exposures to interest rates, equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. A description of each market risk category is set forth below: Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and credit spreads. Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and equity indices. Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates. Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, such as electricity, natural gas, crude oil, petroleum products, and precious and base metals. 106 Table of Contents We seek to manage these risks by diversifying exposures, controlling position sizes and establishing economic hedges in related securities or derivatives. For example, we may seek to hedge a portfolio of common stocks by taking an offsetting position in a related equity index futures contract. The ability to manage an exposure may, however, be limited by adverse changes in the liquidity of the security or the related hedge instrument and in the correlation of price movements between the security and related hedge instrument. In addition to applying business judgment, senior management uses a number of quantitative tools to manage our exposure to market risk for Trading assets, at fair value and Trading liabilities, at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial condition. These tools include: risk limits based on a summary measure of market risk exposure referred to as VaR; scenario analyses, stress tests and other analytical tools that measure the potential effects on our trading net revenues of various market events, including, but not limited to, a large widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equity markets and significant moves in selected emerging markets; and inventory position limits for selected business units. VaR VaR is the potential loss in value of trading positions due to adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a specified confidence level. For the VaR numbers reported below, a one day time horizon and a 95% confidence level were used. This means that there is a 1 in 20 chance that daily trading net revenues will fall below the expected daily trading net revenues by an amount at least as large as the reported VaR. Thus, shortfalls from expected trading net revenues on a single trading day greater than the reported VaR would be anticipated to occur, on average, about once a month. Shortfalls on a single day can exceed reported VaR by significant amounts. Shortfalls can also occur more frequently or accumulate over a longer time horizon such as a number of consecutive trading days. The modeling of the risk characteristics of our trading positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations. While we believe that these assumptions and approximations are reasonable, there is no standard methodology for estimating VaR, and different assumptions and or approximations could produce materially different VaR estimates. We use historical data to estimate our VaR and, to better reflect current asset volatilities, we generally weight historical data to give greater importance to more recent observations. Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions. An inherent limitation of VaR is that the distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not produce accurate predictions of future market risk. Different VaR methodologies and distributional assumptions could produce a materially different VaR. Moreover, VaR calculated for a one day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges within one day. 107 Table of Contents The following tables set forth the daily VaR: Average Daily VaR (1) (in millions) Year Ended November Risk Categories 2008 2007 2006 Interest rates $ 142 $ 85 $ 49 Equity prices 72 100 72 Currency rates 30 23 21 Commodity prices 44 26 30 Diversification effect (2) (108 ) (96 ) (71 ) Total $ 180 $ 138 $ 101 (1) Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer restrictions and or illiquidity). See Other Market Risk Measures below. (2) Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. Our average daily VaR increased to $180 million in 2008 from $138 million in 2007, principally due to increases in the interest rate, commodity price and currency rate categories, partially offset by a decrease in the equity price category. The increase in interest rates was primarily due to higher levels of volatility and wider spreads, partially offset by position reductions, and the increases in commodity prices and currency rates were primarily due to higher levels of volatility. The decrease in equity prices was principally due to position reductions, partially offset by higher levels of volatility. Our average daily VaR increased to $138 million in 2007 from $101 million in 2006. The increase was primarily due to higher levels of exposure and volatility in interest rates and equity prices. VaR excludes the impact of changes in counterparty and our own credit spreads on derivatives as well as changes in our own credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for which the fair value option was elected. The estimated sensitivity of our net revenues to a one basis point increase in credit spreads (counterparty and our own) on derivatives was $1 million as of November 2008. In addition, the estimated sensitivity of our net revenues to a one basis point increase in our own credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for which the fair value option was elected was $1 million (including hedges) as of November 2008. Daily VaR (1) (in millions) Year Ended As of November November 2008 Risk Categories 2008 2007 High Low Interest rates $ 228 $ 105 $ 228 $ 93 Equity prices 38 82 234 36 Currency rates 36 35 55 17 Commodity prices 33 33 68 25 Diversification effect (2) (91 ) (121 ) Total $ 244 $ 134 $ 246 $ 129 (1) Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer restrictions and or illiquidity). See Other Market Risk Measures below. (2) Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated. 108 Table of Contents Our daily VaR increased to $244 million as of November 2008 from $134 million as of November 2007, primarily due to an increase in the interest rate category and a reduction in the diversification benefit across risk categories, partially offset by a decrease in the equity price category. The increase in interest rates was principally due to higher levels of volatility and wider spreads, partially offset by position reductions. The decrease in equity prices was primarily due to position reductions, partially offset by higher levels of volatility. The following chart presents our daily VaR during 2008: Daily VaR ($ in millions) 109 Table of Contents Trading Net Revenues Distribution The following chart sets forth the frequency distribution of our daily trading net revenues for substantially all inventory positions included in VaR for the year ended November 2008: Daily Trading Net Revenues ($ in millions) As part of our overall risk control process, daily trading net revenues are compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the prior business day. Trading losses incurred on a single day exceeded our 95% one day VaR on 13 and 10 occasions during 2008 and 2007, respectively. Other Market Risk Measures Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer restrictions and or illiquidity). The market risk related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, excluding interests held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs, is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10% decline in the ICBC ordinary share price. The market risk related to the remaining positions is measured by estimating the potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10% decline in asset values. The sensitivity analyses for equity and debt positions in our trading portfolio and equity, debt (primarily mezzanine instruments) and real estate positions in our non trading portfolio are measured by the impact of a decline in the asset values (including the impact of leverage in the underlying investments for real estate positions in our non trading portfolio) of such positions. The fair value of the underlying positions may be impacted by factors such as transactions in similar instruments, completed or pending third party transactions in the underlying investment or comparable entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial ratios or cash flows. 110 Table of Contents The following table sets forth market risk for positions not included in VaR. These measures do not reflect diversification benefits across asset categories and, given the differing likelihood of the potential declines in asset categories, these measures have not been aggregated: 10% Sensitivity Amount as of November Asset Categories 10% Sensitivity Measure 2008 2007 (in millions) Trading Risk (1) Equity (2) Underlying asset value $ 790 $ 1,325 Debt (3) Underlying asset value 808 1,020 Non trading Risk ICBC ICBC ordinary share price 202 250 Other Equity (4) Underlying asset value 1,155 1,054 Debt (5) Underlying asset value 694 500 Real Estate (6) Underlying asset value 1,330 1,108 (1) In addition to the positions in these portfolios, which are accounted for at fair value, we make investments accounted for under the equity method and we also make direct investments in real estate, both of which are included in Other assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Direct investments in real estate are accounted for at cost less accumulated depreciation. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for information on Other assets. (2) Relates to private and restricted public equity securities held within the FICC and Equities components of our Trading and Principal Investments segment. (3) Relates to acquired portfolios of distressed loans (primarily backed by commercial and residential real estate collateral), bank loans and bridge loans, and loans backed by commercial real estate and held within the FICC component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment. (4) Primarily relates to interests in our merchant banking funds that invest in corporate equities. (5) Primarily relates to interests in our merchant banking funds that invest in corporate mezzanine debt instruments. (6) Primarily relates to interests in our merchant banking funds that invest in real estate. Such funds typically employ leverage as part of the investment strategy. This sensitivity measure is based on our percentage ownership of the underlying asset values in the funds and unfunded commitments to the funds. The decrease in our 10% sensitivity measures as of November 2008 from November 2007 for equity and debt positions in our trading portfolio was due to dispositions and a decrease in the fair value of the portfolio, partially offset by new investments. The increase in our 10% sensitivity measures as of November 2008 from November 2007 for our non trading portfolio (excluding ICBC) was due to new investments, partially offset by a decrease in the fair value of the portfolio. In addition to the positions included in VaR and the other risk measures described above, as of November 2008, we held approximately $10.39 billion of financial instruments in our bank and insurance subsidiaries, primarily consisting of $3.08 billion of U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign obligations, $2.87 billion of corporate debt securities and other debt obligations, $2.86 billion of money market instruments, and $1.22 billion of mortgage and other asset backed loans and securities. As of November 2007, we held approximately $10.58 billion of financial instruments in our bank and insurance subsidiaries, primarily consisting of $4.70 billion of mortgage and other asset backed loans and securities, $2.93 billion of corporate debt securities and other debt obligations and $2.77 billion of U.S. government, federal agency and sovereign obligations. In addition, as of November 2008 and November 2007, we held commitments and loans under the William Street credit extension program. See Contractual Obligations and Commitments Commitments above for information on our William Street program. 111 Table of Contents Credit Risk Credit risk represents the loss that we would incur if a counterparty or an issuer of securities or other instruments we hold fails to perform under its contractual obligations to us, or upon a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties whose securities or other instruments, including OTC derivatives, we hold. Our exposure to credit risk principally arises through our trading, investing and financing activities. To reduce our credit exposures, we seek to enter into netting agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset receivables and payables with such counterparties. In addition, we attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain counterparties by (i) entering into agreements that enable us to obtain collateral from a counterparty on an upfront or contingent basis, (ii) seeking third party guarantees of the counterpartys obligations, and or (iii) transferring our credit risk to third parties using credit derivatives and or other structures and techniques. To measure and manage our credit exposures, we use a variety of tools, including credit limits referenced to both current exposure and potential exposure. Potential exposure is an estimate of exposure, within a specified confidence level, that could be outstanding over the life of a transaction based on market movements. In addition, as part of our market risk management process, for positions measured by changes in credit spreads, we use VaR and other sensitivity measures. To supplement our primary credit exposure measures, we also use scenario analyses, such as credit spread widening scenarios, stress tests and other quantitative tools. Our global credit management systems monitor credit exposure to individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to counterparties and their affiliates. These systems also provide management, including the Firmwide Risk and Credit Policy Committees, with information regarding credit risk by product, industry sector, country and region. While our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks and investment funds, resulting in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. In the ordinary course of business, we may also be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer. As of November 2008 and November 2007, we held $53.98 billion (6% of total assets) and $45.75 billion (4% of total assets), respectively, of U.S. government and federal agency obligations included in Trading assets, at fair value and Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes in the consolidated statements of financial condition. As of November 2008 and November 2007, we held $21.13 billion (2% of total assets) and $31.65 billion (3% of total assets), respectively, of other sovereign obligations, principally consisting of securities issued by the governments of Japan and the United Kingdom. In addition, as of November 2008 and November 2007, $126.27 billion and $144.92 billion of our securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed (including those in Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes), respectively, were collateralized by U.S. government and federal agency obligations. As of November 2008 and November 2007, $65.37 billion and $41.26 billion of our securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed, respectively, were collateralized by other sovereign obligations. As of November 2008 and November 2007, we did not have credit exposure to any other counterparty that exceeded 2% of our total assets. However, over the past several years, the amount and duration of our credit exposures with respect to OTC derivatives has been increasing, due to, among other factors, the growth of our OTC derivative activities and market evolution toward longer dated transactions. A further discussion of our derivative activities follows below. 112 Table of Contents Derivatives Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards, swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange. Substantially all of our derivative transactions are entered into to facilitate client transactions, to take proprietary positions or as a means of risk management. In addition to derivative transactions entered into for trading purposes, we enter into derivative contracts to manage currency exposure on our net investment in non U.S. operations and to manage the interest rate and currency exposure on our long term borrowings and certain short term borrowings. Derivatives are used in many of our businesses, and we believe that the associated market risk can only be understood relative to all of the underlying assets or risks being hedged, or as part of a broader trading strategy. Accordingly, the market risk of derivative positions is managed together with our nonderivative positions. The fair value of our derivative contracts is reflected net of cash paid or received pursuant to credit support agreements and is reported on a net by counterparty basis in our consolidated statements of financial condition when we believe a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting agreement. For an OTC derivative, our credit exposure is directly with our counterparty and continues until the maturity or termination of such contract. 113 Table of Contents The following tables set forth the fair values of our OTC derivative assets and liabilities by product and by remaining contractual maturity: OTC Derivatives (in millions) Assets As of November 2008 0 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Contract Type Months Years Years or Greater Total Interest rates $ 16,220 $ 43,864 $ 35,050 $ 40,649 $ 135,783 Credit derivatives 10,364 45,596 20,110 13,788 89,858 Currencies 28,056 12,191 5,980 4,137 50,364 Commodities 13,660 12,717 1,175 1,681 29,233 Equities 17,830 4,742 3,927 1,061 27,560 Netting across contract types (1) (6,238 ) (9,160 ) (3,515 ) (3,802 ) (22,715 ) Subtotal $ 79,892 (4) $ 109,950 $ 62,727 $ 57,514 $ 310,083 Cross maturity netting (2) (48,750 ) Cash collateral netting (3) (137,160 ) Total $ 124,173 Liabilities 0 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Contract Type Months Years Years or Greater Total Interest rates $ 8,004 $ 16,152 $ 17,456 $ 26,399 $ 68,011 Credit derivatives 6,591 20,958 10,301 13,610 51,460 Currencies 29,130 13,755 4,109 2,051 49,045 Commodities 12,685 10,391 1,575 827 25,478 Equities 14,016 4,741 1,751 320 20,828 Netting across contract types (1) (6,238 ) (9,160 ) (3,515 ) (3,802 ) (22,715 ) Subtotal $ 64,188 (4) $ 56,837 $ 31,677 $ 39,405 $ 192,107 Cross maturity netting (2) (48,750 ) Cash collateral netting (3) (34,009 ) Total $ 109,348 (1) Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across contract types within a maturity category, pursuant to credit support agreements. (2) Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories, pursuant to credit support agreements. (3) Represents the netting of cash collateral received and posted on a counterparty basis pursuant to credit support agreements. (4) Includes fair values of OTC derivative assets and liabilities, maturing within six months, of $56.72 billion and $51.26 billion, respectively. 114 Table of Contents OTC Derivatives (in millions) Assets As of November 2007 0 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Contract Type Months Years Years or Greater Total Interest rates $ 8,703 $ 10,965 $ 17,176 $ 28,388 $ 65,232 Credit derivatives 11,168 13,006 6,501 20,163 50,838 Currencies 20,586 9,275 5,106 2,127 37,094 Commodities 6,264 12,064 1,766 899 20,993 Equities 13,845 5,312 4,273 1,603 25,033 Netting across contract types (1) (3,355 ) (5,665 ) (3,132 ) (2,066 ) (14,218 ) Subtotal $ 57,211 (4) $ 44,957 $ 31,690 $ 51,114 $ 184,972 Cross maturity netting (2) (33,849 ) Cash collateral netting (3) (59,050 ) Total $ 92,073 Liabilities 0 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Contract Type Months Years Years or Greater Total Interest rates $ 10,234 $ 10,802 $ 9,816 $ 10,287 $ 41,139 Credit derivatives 7,085 11,842 5,084 16,077 40,088 Currencies 16,560 9,815 1,446 1,772 29,593 Commodities 8,752 9,690 2,757 506 21,705 Equities 17,460 7,723 3,833 1,382 30,398 Netting across contract types (1) (3,355 ) (5,665 ) (3,132 ) (2,066 ) (14,218 ) Subtotal $ 56,736 (4) $ 44,207 $ 19,804 $ 27,958 $ 148,705 Cross maturity netting (2) (33,849 ) Cash collateral netting (3) (27,758 ) Total $ 87,098 (1) Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across contract types within a maturity category, pursuant to credit support agreements. (2) Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories, pursuant to credit support agreements. (3) Represents the netting of cash collateral received and posted on a counterparty basis pursuant to credit support agreements. (4) Includes fair values of OTC derivative assets and liabilities, maturing within six months, of $41.80 billion and $41.12 billion, respectively. In the tables above, for option contracts that require settlement by delivery of an underlying derivative instrument, the remaining contractual maturity is generally classified based upon the maturity date of the underlying derivative instrument. In those instances where the underlying instrument does not have a maturity date or either counterparty has the right to settle in cash, the remaining contractual maturity is generally based upon the option expiration date. 115 Table of Contents The following tables set forth the distribution, by credit rating, of our exposure with respect to OTC derivatives by remaining contractual maturity, both before and after consideration of the effect of collateral and netting agreements. The categories shown reflect our internally determined public rating agency equivalents: OTC Derivative Credit Exposure (in millions) As of November 2008 Exposure Credit Rating 0 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Net of Equivalent Months Years Years or Greater Total Netting (2) Exposure Collateral AAA/Aaa $ 5,700 $ 7,000 $ 4,755 $ 2,726 $ 20,181 $ (6,765 ) $ 13,416 $ 12,328 AA/Aa2 26,040 37,378 30,293 18,084 111,795 (78,085 ) 33,710 29,438 A/A2 22,374 34,796 15,317 20,498 92,985 (58,744 ) 34,241 28,643 BBB/Baa2 11,844 19,200 7,635 13,302 51,981 (29,791 ) 22,190 16,155 BB/Ba2 or lower 13,161 10,403 4,035 2,711 30,310 (12,515 ) 17,795 11,212 Unrated 773 1,173 692 193 2,831 (10 ) 2,821 1,550 Total $ 79,892 (1) $ 109,950 $ 62,727 $ 57,514 $ 310,083 $ (185,910 ) $ 124,173 $ 99,326 As of November 2007 Exposure Credit Rating 0 12 1 5 5 10 10 Years Net of Equivalent Months Years Years or Greater Total Netting (2) Exposure Collateral AAA/Aaa $ 6,018 $ 3,354 $ 2,893 $ 7,875 $ 20,140 $ (3,600 ) $ 16,540 $ 14,453 AA/Aa2 19,331 14,339 13,184 22,708 69,562 (40,661 ) 28,901 24,758 A/A2 14,491 13,380 10,012 15,133 53,016 (32,453 ) 20,563 16,010 BBB/Baa2 4,059 5,774 1,707 2,777 14,317 (4,437 ) 9,880 6,542 BB/Ba2 or lower 6,854 5,676 3,347 2,541 18,418 (4,834 ) 13,584 7,366 Unrated 6,458 2,434 547 80 9,519 (6,914 ) 2,605 1,280 Total $ 57,211 (1) $ 44,957 $ 31,690 $ 51,114 $ 184,972 $ (92,899 ) $ 92,073 $ 70,409 (1) Includes fair values of OTC derivative assets, maturing within six months, of $56.72 billion and $41.80 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. (2) Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories and the netting of cash collateral received, pursuant to credit support agreements. Receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Derivative transactions may also involve legal risks including the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the counterparty. We attempt to minimize these risks by obtaining advice of counsel on the enforceability of agreements as well as on the authority of a counterparty to effect the derivative transaction. In addition, certain derivative transactions (e.g., credit derivative contracts) involve the risk that we may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the underlying security or obligation in order to satisfy any physical settlement requirement. 116 Table of Contents Liquidity and Funding Risk Liquidity is of critical importance to companies in the financial services sector. Most failures of financial institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient liquidity resulting from adverse circumstances. Accordingly, Goldman Sachs has in place a comprehensive set of liquidity and funding policies that are intended to maintain significant flexibility to address both Goldman Sachs specific and broader industry or market liquidity events. Our principal objective is to be able to fund Goldman Sachs and to enable our core businesses to continue to generate revenues, even under adverse circumstances. We have implemented a number of policies according to the following liquidity risk management framework: Excess Liquidity We maintain substantial excess liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows in a stressed environment, including financing obligations. Asset Liability Management We seek to maintain secured and unsecured funding sources that are sufficiently long term in order to withstand a prolonged or severe liquidity stressed environment without having to rely on asset sales. Conservative Liability Structure We seek to access funding across a diverse range of markets, products and counterparties, emphasize less credit sensitive sources of funding and conservatively manage the distribution of funding across our entity structure. Crisis Planning We base our liquidity and funding management on stress scenario planning and maintain a crisis plan detailing our response to a liquidity threatening event. Excess Liquidity Our most important liquidity policy is to pre fund what we estimate will be our likely cash needs during a liquidity crisis and hold such excess liquidity in the form of unencumbered, highly liquid securities that may be sold or pledged to provide same day liquidity. This Global Core Excess is intended to allow us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell other assets or depend on additional funding from credit sensitive markets. We believe that this pool of excess liquidity provides us with a resilient source of funds and gives us significant flexibility in managing through a difficult funding environment. Our Global Core Excess reflects the following principles: The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most critical to a companys survival. Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Goldman Sachs businesses are diverse, and its cash needs are driven by many factors, including market movements, collateral requirements and client commitments, all of which can change dramatically in a difficult funding environment. During a liquidity crisis, credit sensitive funding, including unsecured debt and some types of secured financing agreements, may be unavailable, and the terms or availability of other types of secured financing may change. As a result of our policy to pre fund liquidity that we estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold more unencumbered securities and have larger unsecured debt balances than our businesses would otherwise require. We believe that our liquidity is stronger with greater balances of highly liquid unencumbered securities, even though it increases our unsecured liabilities and our funding costs. 117 Table of Contents The size of our Global Core Excess is based on an internal liquidity model together with a qualitative assessment of the condition of the financial markets and of Goldman Sachs. Our liquidity model identifies and estimates cash and collateral outflows over a short term horizon in a liquidity crisis, including, but not limited to: upcoming maturities of unsecured debt and letters of credit; potential buybacks of a portion of our outstanding negotiable unsecured debt and potential withdrawals of client deposits; adverse changes in the terms or availability of secured funding; derivatives and other margin and collateral outflows, including those due to market moves; potential cash outflows associated with our prime brokerage business; additional collateral that could be called in the event of a two notch downgrade in our credit ratings; draws on our unfunded commitments not supported by William Street Funding Corporation (1); and upcoming cash outflows, such as tax and other large payments. The following table sets forth the average loan value (the estimated amount of cash that would be advanced by counterparties against these securities), as well as overnight cash deposits, of our Global Core Excess: Year Ended November 2008 2007 (in millions) U.S. dollar denominated $ 78,048 $ 52,115 Non U.S. dollar denominated 18,677 11,928 Total Global Core Excess (2) $ 96,725 $ 64,043 The U.S. dollar denominated excess is comprised of only unencumbered U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities and highly liquid U.S. agency mortgage backed securities, all of which are eligible as collateral in Federal Reserve open market operations, as well as overnight cash deposits. Our non U.S. dollar denominated excess is comprised of only unencumbered French, German, United Kingdom and Japanese government bonds and overnight cash deposits in highly liquid currencies. We strictly limit our Global Core Excess to this narrowly defined list of securities and cash because we believe they are highly liquid, even in a difficult funding environment. We do not believe other potential sources of excess liquidity, such as lower quality unencumbered securities or committed credit facilities, are as reliable in a liquidity crisis. We maintain our Global Core Excess to enable us to meet current and potential liquidity requirements of our parent company, Group Inc., and all of its subsidiaries. The amount of our Global Core Excess is driven by our assessment of potential cash and collateral outflows, regulatory obligations and the currency and timing requirements of our global business model. In addition, we recognize that our Global Core Excess held in a regulated entity may not be available to our parent company or other subsidiaries and therefore may only be available to meet the potential liquidity requirements of that entity. (1) The Global Core Excess excludes liquid assets of $4.40 billion held separately by William Street Funding Corporation. See Contractual Obligations and Commitments above for a further discussion of the William Street credit extension program. (2) Beginning in 2008, our Global Core Excess as presented includes the Global Core Excess of GS Bank USA and GS Bank Europe. The 2007 amounts include $3.48 billion of Global Core Excess at GS Bank USA. 118 Table of Contents In addition to our Global Core Excess, we have a significant amount of other unencumbered securities as a result of our business activities. These assets, which are located in the U. S., Europe and Asia, include other government bonds, high grade money market securities, corporate bonds and marginable equities. We do not include these securities in our Global Core Excess. We maintain our Global Core Excess and other unencumbered assets in an amount that, if pledged or sold, would provide the funds necessary to replace at least 110% of our unsecured obligations that are scheduled to mature (or where holders have the option to redeem) within the next 12 months. We assume conservative loan values that are based on stress scenario borrowing capacity and we regularly review these assumptions asset class by asset class. The estimated aggregate loan value of our Global Core Excess, as well as overnight cash deposits, and our other unencumbered assets averaged $163.41 billion and $156.74 billion for the fiscal years ended November 2008 and November 2007, respectively. Asset Liability Management We seek to maintain a highly liquid balance sheet and substantially all of our inventory is marked to market daily. We utilize aged inventory limits for certain financial instruments as a disincentive to our businesses to hold inventory over longer periods of time. We believe that these limits provide a complementary mechanism for ensuring appropriate balance sheet liquidity in addition to our standard position limits. Although our balance sheet fluctuates due to client activity, market conventions and periodic market opportunities in certain of our businesses, our total assets and adjusted assets at financial statement dates are typically not materially different from those occurring within our reporting periods. We seek to manage the maturity profile of our secured and unsecured funding base such that we should be able to liquidate our assets prior to our liabilities coming due, even in times of prolonged or severe liquidity stress. We do not rely on immediate sales of assets (other than our Global Core Excess) to maintain liquidity in a distressed environment, although we recognize orderly asset sales may be prudent or necessary in a severe or persistent liquidity crisis. In order to avoid reliance on asset sales, our goal is to ensure that we have sufficient total capital (unsecured long term borrowings plus total shareholders equity) to fund our balance sheet for at least one year. The target amount of our total capital is based on an internal liquidity model, which incorporates, among other things, the following long term financing requirements: the portion of trading assets that we believe could not be funded on a secured basis in periods of market stress, assuming conservative loan values; goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, property, leasehold improvements and equipment, and other illiquid assets; derivative and other margin and collateral requirements; anticipated draws on our unfunded loan commitments; and capital or other forms of financing in our regulated subsidiaries that are in excess of their long term financing requirements. See Conservative Liability Structure below for a further discussion of how we fund our subsidiaries. 119 Table of Contents Certain financial instruments may be more difficult to fund on a secured basis during times of market stress. Accordingly, we generally hold higher levels of total capital for these assets than more liquid types of financial instruments. The following table sets forth our aggregate holdings in these categories of financial instruments: As of November 2008 2007 (in millions) Mortgage and other asset backed loans and securities $ 22,393 $ 46,436 (6) Bank loans and bridge loans (1) 21,839 49,154 Emerging market debt securities 2,827 3,343 High yield and other debt obligations 9,998 12,807 Private equity and real estate fund investments (2) 18,171 16,244 Emerging market equity securities 2,665 8,014 ICBC ordinary shares (3) 5,496 6,807 SMFG convertible preferred stock (4) 1,135 4,060 Other restricted public equity securities 568 3,455 Other investments in funds (5) 2,714 3,437 (1) Includes funded commitments and inventory held in connection with our origination and secondary trading activities. (2) Includes interests in our merchant banking funds. Such amounts exclude assets related to consolidated investment funds of $1.16 billion and $8.13 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, for which Goldman Sachs does not bear economic exposure. (3) Includes interests of $3.48 billion and $4.30 billion as of November 2008 and November 2007, respectively, held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. (4) During our second quarter of 2008, we converted one third of our SMFG preferred stock investment into SMFG common stock, and delivered the common stock to close out one third of our hedge position. (5) Includes interests in other investment funds that we manage. (6) Excludes $7.64 billion as of November 2007 of mortgage whole loans that were transferred to securitization vehicles where such transfers were accounted for as secured financings rather than sales under SFAS No. 140. We distributed to investors the securities that were issued by the securitization vehicles and therefore did not bear economic exposure to the underlying mortgage whole loans. A large portion of these assets are funded through secured funding markets or nonrecourse financing. We focus on funding these assets on a secured basis with long contractual maturities to reduce refinancing risk in periods of market stress. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding the financial instruments we hold. Conservative Liability Structure We seek to structure our liabilities conservatively to reduce refinancing risk and the risk that we may be required to redeem or repurchase certain of our borrowings prior to their contractual maturity. We fund a substantial portion of our inventory on a secured basis, which we believe provides Goldman Sachs with a more stable source of liquidity than unsecured financing, as it is less sensitive to changes in our credit due to the underlying collateral. However, we recognize that the terms or availability of secured funding, particularly overnight funding, can deteriorate rapidly in a difficult environment. To help mitigate this risk, we raise the majority of our funding for durations longer than overnight. We seek longer terms for secured funding collateralized by lower quality assets, as we believe these funding transactions may pose greater refinancing risk. The weighted average life of our secured funding, excluding funding collateralized by highly liquid securities, such as U.S., French, German, United Kingdom and Japanese government bonds, and U.S. agency securities, exceeded 100 days as of November 2008. 120 Table of Contents Our liquidity also depends to an important degree on the stability of our short term unsecured financing base. Accordingly, we prefer the use of promissory notes (in which Goldman Sachs does not make a market) over commercial paper, which we may repurchase prior to maturity through the ordinary course of business as a market maker. As of November 2008 and November 2007, our unsecured short term borrowings, including the current portion of unsecured long term borrowings, were $52.66 billion and $71.56 billion, respectively. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for further information regarding our unsecured short term borrowings. We issue long term borrowings as a source of total capital in order to meet our long term financing requirements. The following table sets forth our quarterly unsecured long term borrowings maturity profile through 2014: Unsecured Long Term Borrowings Maturity Profile ($ in millions) The weighted average maturity of our unsecured long term borrowings as of November 2008 was approximately eight years. To mitigate refinancing risk, we seek to limit the principal amount of debt maturing on any one day or during any week or year. We swap a substantial portion of our long term borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations with short term floating interest rates in order to minimize our exposure to interest rates and foreign exchange movements. We issue substantially all of our unsecured debt without provisions that would, based solely upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price, trigger a requirement for an early payment, collateral support, change in terms, acceleration of maturity or the creation of an additional financial obligation. As of November 2008, our bank depository institution subsidiaries had $27.64 billion in customer deposits, including $19.15 billion of deposits from our bank sweep programs and $8.49 billion of brokered certificates of deposit with a weighted average maturity of three years. In addition, we are pursuing a number of strategies to raise additional deposits as a source of funding for the firm. As of 121 Table of Contents September 2008, GS Bank USA has access to funding through the Federal Reserve Bank discount window. While we do not rely on funding through the Federal Reserve Bank discount window in our liquidity modeling and stress testing, we maintain policies and procedures necessary to access this funding. We seek to maintain broad and diversified funding sources globally for both secured and unsecured funding. We make extensive use of the repurchase agreement and securities lending markets, as well as other secured funding markets. In addition, we issue debt through syndicated U.S. registered offerings, U.S. registered and 144A medium term note programs, offshore medium term note offerings and other bond offerings, U.S. and non U.S. commercial paper and promissory note issuances and other methods. We also arrange for letters of credit to be issued on our behalf. We seek to distribute our funding products through our own sales force to a large, diverse global creditor base and we believe that our relationships with our creditors are critical to our liquidity. Our creditors include banks, governments, securities lenders, pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds and individuals. We access funding in a variety of markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. We have imposed various internal guidelines on creditor concentration, including the amount of our commercial paper and promissory notes that can be owned and letters of credit that can be issued by any single creditor or group of creditors. In the latter half of 2008, we were unable to raise significant amounts of long term unsecured debt in the public markets, other than as a result of the issuance of securities guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP. It is unclear when we will regain access to the public long term unsecured debt markets on customary terms or whether any similar program will be available after the TLGPs scheduled June 2009 expiration. However, we continue to have access to short term funding and to a number of sources of secured funding, both in the private markets and through various government and central bank sponsored initiatives. Over the past year, a number of U.S. regulatory agencies have taken steps to enhance the liquidity support available to financial services companies such as Group Inc., GSCo., GSI and GS Bank USA. Some of these steps include: The Federal Reserve Bank of New York established the Primary Dealer Credit Facility in March 2008 to provide overnight funding to primary dealers in exchange for a specified range of collateral. In September 2008, the eligible collateral was expanded to include all collateral eligible in tri party repurchase arrangements with the major clearing banks, and the facility was made available to GSI. This facility is scheduled to expire on April 30, 2009. The Federal Reserve Board introduced a new Term Securities Lending Facility (TSLF) in March 2008, which extended the term for which the Federal Reserve Board will lend Treasury securities to primary dealers from overnight to 28 days and, in September 2008, expanded the types of assets that can be used as collateral under the TSLF to include all investment grade debt securities (rather than just Treasury, agency and certain AAA rated asset backed securities). This facility is scheduled to expire on April 30, 2009. In October 2008, the Federal Reserve Board established the Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF) to serve as a funding backstop to facilitate the issuance of term commercial paper by eligible issuers. Through the CPFF, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York will finance the purchase of unsecured and asset backed highly rated, U.S. dollar denominated, three month commercial paper from eligible issuers through its primary dealers. The facility is scheduled to expire on April 30, 2009. Our available funding under the CPFF is approximately $11 billion, of which a de minimis amount was utilized as of January 22, 2009. 122 Table of Contents The FDICs TLGP, which was established in October 2008, provides a guarantee of certain newly issued senior unsecured debt issued by eligible entities, including Group Inc. and GS Bank USA, as well as funds over $250,000 in non interest bearing transaction deposit accounts held by FDIC insured banks (such as GS Bank USA). The debt guarantee is available, subject to limitations, for debt issued through June 30, 2009 and the deposit coverage lasts through December 31, 2009. We are able to have outstanding approximately $35 billion of debt under the TLGP that is issued prior to June 30, 2009. As of November 2008 and January 22, 2009, we had outstanding $4.18 billion of senior unsecured short term borrowings and $25.54 billion of senior unsecured debt (comprised of $11.57 billion of short term and $13.97 billion of long term), respectively, under the TLGP. See Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses above, and Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for a discussion of factors that could impair our ability to access the capital markets. Subsidiary Funding Policies. Substantially all of our unsecured funding is raised by our parent company, Group Inc. The parent company then lends the necessary funds to its subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset financing and capital requirements. In addition, the parent company provides its regulated subsidiaries with the necessary capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The benefits of this approach to subsidiary funding include enhanced control and greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements of our subsidiaries. Funding is also raised at the subsidiary level through secured funding and deposits. Our intercompany funding policies are predicated on an assumption that, unless legally provided for, funds or securities are not freely available from a subsidiary to its parent company or other subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory bodies to block or limit the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to Group Inc. Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make payments on obligations, including debt obligations. As such, we assume that capital or other financing provided to our regulated subsidiaries is not available to our parent company or other subsidiaries until the maturity of such financing. In addition, we recognize that the Global Core Excess held in our regulated entities may not be available to our parent company or other subsidiaries and therefore may only be available to meet the potential liquidity requirements of those entities. We also manage our liquidity risk by requiring senior and subordinated intercompany loans to have maturities equal to or shorter than the maturities of the aggregate borrowings of the parent company. This policy ensures that the subsidiaries obligations to the parent company will generally mature in advance of the parent companys third party borrowings. In addition, many of our subsidiaries and affiliates maintain unencumbered assets to cover their unsecured intercompany borrowings (other than subordinated debt) in order to mitigate parent company liquidity risk. Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its regulated subsidiaries; for example, as of November 2008, Group Inc. had $26.01 billion of such equity and subordinated indebtedness invested in GSCo., its principal U.S. registered broker dealer; $22.06 billion invested in GSI, a regulated U.K. broker dealer; $2.48 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Execution Clearing, L.P., a U.S. registered broker dealer; $3.79 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd., a regulated Japanese broker dealer; and $17.32 billion invested in GS Bank USA, a regulated New York State chartered bank. Group Inc. also had $62.81 billion of unsubordinated loans to these entities as of November 2008, as well as significant amounts of capital invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries. 123 Table of Contents Crisis Planning In order to be prepared for a liquidity event, or a period of market stress, we base our liquidity risk management framework and our resulting funding and liquidity policies on conservative stress scenario assumptions. Our planning incorporates several market based and operational stress scenarios. We also periodically conduct liquidity crisis drills to test our lines of communication and backup funding procedures. In addition, we maintain a liquidity crisis plan that specifies an approach for analyzing and responding to a liquidity threatening event. The plan provides the framework to estimate the likely impact of a liquidity event on Goldman Sachs based on some of the risks identified above and outlines which and to what extent liquidity maintenance activities should be implemented based on the severity of the event. Credit Ratings We rely upon the short term and long term debt capital markets to fund a significant portion of our day to day operations. The cost and availability of debt financing is influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are important when we are competing in certain markets and when we seek to engage in longer term transactions, including OTC derivatives. We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit rating agencies assessment of our liquidity, market, credit and operational risk management practices, the level and variability of our earnings, our capital base, our franchise, reputation and management, our corporate governance and the external operating environment. See Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses above, and Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10 K for a discussion of the risks associated with a reduction in our credit ratings. On December 16, 2008, Moodys Investors Service affirmed Group Inc.s Short Term Debt rating and lowered Group Inc.s ratings on Long Term Debt (from Aa3 to A1), Subordinated Debt (from A1 to A2) and Preferred Stock (from A2 to A3), and retained its outlook of negative. Also on December 16, 2008, Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited affirmed Group Inc.s credit ratings but revised its outlook from negative to under review with negative implications. On December 17, 2008, Rating and Investment Information, Inc. affirmed Group Inc.s Short Term Debt rating at a 1+, lowered Group Inc.s Long Term Debt ratings from AA to AA and retained its outlook of negative. On December 19, 2008, Standard Poors Ratings Services lowered Group Inc.s ratings on Short Term Debt (from A 1+ to A 1), Long Term Debt (from AA to A), Subordinated Debt (from A+ to A ) and Preferred Stock (from A to BBB) and retained its outlook of negative. On January 23, 2009, Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited lowered Group Inc.s ratings on Long Term Debt (from AA (low) to A (high)), Subordinated Debt (from A (high) to A) and Preferred Stock (from A to A (low)). The following table sets forth our unsecured credit ratings as of January 23, 2009: Short Term Debt Long Term Debt Subordinated Debt Preferred Stock Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited R 1 (middle) A (high) A A (low) Fitch, Inc. F1+ AA A+ A+ Moodys Investors Service P 1 A1 A2 A3 Standard Poors Ratings Services A 1 A A BBB Rating and Investment Information, Inc. a 1+ AA Not Applicable Not Applicable 124 Table of Contents Based on our credit ratings as of November 2008, additional collateral or termination payments pursuant to bilateral agreements with certain counterparties of approximately $1.11 billion and $1.51 billion would have been required in the event of a one notch and two notch reduction, respectively, in our long term credit ratings. Based on our credit ratings reflected in the above table, additional collateral or termination payments pursuant to bilateral agreements with certain counterparties of approximately $897 million and $2.14 billion would have been required in the event of a one notch and two notch reduction, respectively, in our long term credit ratings as of December 26, 2008. In evaluating our liquidity requirements, we consider additional collateral or termination payments that would be required in the event of a two notch reduction in our long term credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not been called by counterparties, but is available to them. Cash Flows As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex and interrelated and bear little relation to our net earnings and net assets and, consequently, we believe that traditional cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our liquidity position than the excess liquidity and asset liability management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may, however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and strategic initiatives in our business. Year Ended November 2008. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $5.46 billion to $15.74 billion at the end of 2008. We raised $9.80 billion in net cash from operating and financing activities, primarily from common and preferred stock issuances and deposits, partially offset by repayments of short term borrowings. We used net cash of $4.34 billion in our investing activities. Year Ended November 2007. Our cash and cash equivalents increased by $4.34 billion to $10.28 billion at the end of 2007. We raised $73.79 billion in net cash from financing and investing activities, primarily through the issuance of unsecured borrowings, partially offset by common stock repurchases. We used net cash of $69.45 billion in our operating activities, primarily to capitalize on trading and investing opportunities for our clients and ourselves. Operational Risk Operational risk relates to the risk of loss arising from shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people or systems, or from external events. Operational risk can arise from many factors ranging from routine processing errors to potentially costly incidents related to, for example, major systems failures. Operational risk may also cause reputational harm. Thus, efforts to identify, manage and mitigate operational risk must be equally sensitive to the risk of reputational damage as well as the risk of financial loss. We manage operational risk through the application of long standing, but continuously evolving, firmwide control standards which are supported by the training, supervision and development of our people; the active participation and commitment of senior management in a continuous process of identifying and mitigating key operational risks across Goldman Sachs; and a framework of strong and independent control departments that monitor operational risk on a daily basis. Together, these elements form a strong firmwide control culture that serves as the foundation of our efforts to minimize operational risk exposure. Operational Risk Management Analysis, a risk management function independent of our revenue producing units, is responsible for developing and implementing a formalized framework to identify, measure, monitor, and report operational risks to support active risk management across Goldman Sachs. This framework, which evolves with the changing needs of our businesses and regulatory guidance, incorporates analysis of internal and external operational risk events, business environment and internal control factors, and scenario analysis. The framework also provides regular reporting of our operational risk exposures to our Board, risk committees and senior management. For a further discussion of operational risk see Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses above, and Risk Factors in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. 125 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Developments EITF Issue No. 06 11. In June 2007, the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) reached consensus on Issue No. 06 11, Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on Share Based Payment Awards. EITF Issue No. 06 11 requires that the tax benefit related to dividend equivalents paid on restricted stock units, which are expected to vest, be recorded as an increase to additional paid in capital. We currently account for this tax benefit as a reduction to income tax expense. EITF Issue No. 06 11 is to be applied prospectively for tax benefits on dividends declared in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. We do not expect the adoption of EITF Issue No. 06 11 to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. FASB Staff Position No. FAS 140 3. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 140 3, Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase Financing Transactions. FSP No. FAS 140 3 requires an initial transfer of a financial asset and a repurchase financing that was entered into contemporaneously or in contemplation of the initial transfer to be evaluated as a linked transaction under SFAS No. 140 unless certain criteria are met, including that the transferred asset must be readily obtainable in the marketplace. FSP No. FAS 140 3 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and is applicable to new transactions entered into after the date of adoption. Early adoption is prohibited. We do not expect adoption of FSP No. FAS 140 3 to have a material effect on our financial condition and cash flows. Adoption of FSP No. FAS 140 3 will have no effect on our results of operations. SFAS No. 161. In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. SFAS No. 161 requires enhanced disclosures about an entitys derivative and hedging activities, and is effective for financial statements issued for reporting periods beginning after November 15, 2008, with early application encouraged. Since SFAS No. 161 requires only additional disclosures concerning derivatives and hedging activities, adoption of SFAS No. 161 will not affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. FASB Staff Position No. EITF 03 6 1. In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. EITF 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities. The FSP addresses whether instruments granted in share based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting and therefore need to be included in the earnings allocation in calculating earnings per share under the two class method described in SFAS No. 128, Earnings per Share. The FSP requires companies to treat unvested share based payment awards that have non forfeitable rights to dividend or dividend equivalents as a separate class of securities in calculating earnings per share. The FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008; earlier application is not permitted. We do not expect adoption of FSP No. EITF 03 6 1 to have a material effect on our results of operations or earnings per share. FASB Staff Position No. FAS 133 1 and FIN 45 4. In September 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 133 1 and FIN 45 4, Disclosures about Credit Derivatives and Certain Guarantees: An Amendment of FASB Statement No. 133 and FASB Interpretation No. 45; and Clarification of the Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 161. FSP No. FAS 133 1 and FIN 45 4 requires enhanced disclosures about credit derivatives and guarantees and amends FIN 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others to exclude credit derivative instruments accounted for at fair value under SFAS No. 133. The FSP is effective for financial statements issued for reporting periods ending after November 15, 2008. Since FSP No. FAS 133 1 and FIN 45 4 only requires additional disclosures concerning credit derivatives and guarantees, adoption of FSP No. FAS 133 1 and FIN 45 4 did not have an effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 126 Table of Contents FASB Staff Position No. FAS 157 3. In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active. FSP No. FAS 157 3 clarifies the application of SFAS No. 157 in an inactive market, without changing its existing principles. The FSP was effective immediately upon issuance. The adoption of FSP No. FAS 157 3 did not have an effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. SFAS No. 141(R). In December 2007, the FASB issued a revision to SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) requires changes to the accounting for transaction costs, certain contingent assets and liabilities, and other balances in a business combination. In addition, in partial acquisitions, when control is obtained, the acquiring company must measure and record all of the targets assets and liabilities, including goodwill, at fair value as if the entire target company had been acquired. We will apply the provisions of SFAS No. 141(R) to business combinations occurring after December 26, 2008. Adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) will not affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, but may have an effect on accounting for future business combinations. SFAS No. 160. In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51. SFAS No. 160 requires that ownership interests in consolidated subsidiaries held by parties other than the parent (noncontrolling interests) be accounted for and presented as equity, rather than as a liability or mezzanine equity. SFAS No. 160 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, but the presentation and disclosure requirements are to be applied retrospectively. We do not expect adoption of the statement to have a material effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. FASB Staff Position No. FAS 140 4 and FIN 46(R) 8. In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS 140 4 and FIN 46(R) 8, Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities. FSP No. FAS 140 4 and FIN 46(R) 8 requires enhanced disclosures about transfers of financial assets and interests in variable interest entities. The FSP is effective for interim and annual periods ending after December 15, 2008. Since the FSP requires only additional disclosures concerning transfers of financial assets and interests in variable interest entities, adoption of the FSP will not affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. EITF Issue No. 07 5. In June 2008, the EITF reached consensus on Issue No. 07 5, Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entitys Own Stock. EITF Issue No. 07 5 provides guidance about whether an instrument (such as our outstanding common stock warrants) should be classified as equity and not marked to market for accounting purposes. EITF Issue No. 07 5 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Adoption of EITF Issue No. 07 5 will not affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk is set forth under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Risk Management in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10 K. 127 Table of Contents 
 
