FILE:TER/TER-8K-20030527162911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code    
(617) 482-2700
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events
 
On May 23, 2003, Teradyne, Inc. issued a press release announcing that Michael A. Bradley was appointed President of Teradyne, Inc., effective immediately, and that George W. Chamillard would continue as Teradyne's Chief Executive Officer and Chairman.
 
A copy of the press release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is filed as a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(c)    Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
PRESS RELEASE
 
MICHAEL BRADLEY NAMED TERADYNE PRESIDENT
BOSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)May 23, 2003Teradyne, Inc. (NYSE: TER) today announced that Michael A. Bradley has been appointed President of Teradyne, effective immediately. George Chamillard will continue as the company's CEO and Chairman and will work with Mr. Bradley on a transition of duties over the next few weeks.
 
Bradley, 54, joined Teradyne in 1979. He has served in a variety of roles in Semiconductor Test and the central company in finance, marketing and sales management. From 1998 to 2000, he was the Company's Chief Financial Officer and since April of 2001, he has served as President of the Semiconductor Test Division. Bradley is a member of SEMI's North American Advisory Board and also serves on the Board of Directors of Mykrolis Corporation. He holds an A.B. degree from Amherst College and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.
 
Regarding the appointment, George Chamillard said "Teradyne's long-term success has always been a function of the capability and integrity of its people. Mike embodies the best of these qualities and I look forward to working with him in his role as President."
 
About Teradyne
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is the world's largest supplier of Automatic Test Equipment, and a leading supplier of interconnection systems. The company's products deliver competitive advantage to the world's leading semiconductor, electronics, automotive and network systems companies. In 2002, Teradyne had sales of $1.22 billion, and currently employs about 6800 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.teradyne.com. Teradyne is a trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the US and other countries.


