FILE:TER/TER-8K-20031015080304.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(617) 482-2700
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
(c)    Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 14, 2003, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended September 28, 2003. The Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
 
BOSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)October 14, 2003Teradyne, Inc. (NYSE: TER) reported sales of $329 million for the third quarter of 2003, and a net loss on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis of $53.5 million, or $0.28 per share. The pro forma net loss for the third quarter of 2003 was $26.8 million, or $0.14 per share before special charges. Net orders increased 10% from the previous quarter, to $336 million.
 
"On balance, we are encouraged by our results in the quarter," said George Chamillard, Teradyne Chairman and CEO. "Our orders improved, and our new products are gaining momentum. The third quarter marked our eighth successive period of increasing orders and our book-to-bill ratio was greater than one-to-one for the first time in three years. In addition we made progress lowering costs during the quarter, enabling us to continue on the path to profitability.
 
"Therefore, in the fourth quarter, we are projecting sales to be between $335 to $340 million, and break-even results, on a pro forma operating basis."
 
 
Teradyne will be conducting its conference call tomorrow, October 15, 2003, at 10:00 a.m. E.D.T. The call will be webcast at (click on "Investors"). A replay will be available via phone starting at Noon E.D.T. and continuing through October 29, 2003. The replay may be accessed by calling 1-800-642-1687 in the US and Canada, or 706-645-9291 outside the US and Canada, and providing conference code 3087243, or by visiting and clicking on "Investors" for a link to the replay. In our earnings release, conference call and webcast, we may use or discuss pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure used or discussed (if available) and a reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measure can be found on the Teradyne website at , by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the GAAP Reconciliation link.
www.teradyne.com
www.teradyne.com
www.teradyne.com
 
Pro Forma Results
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses pro forma or non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain charges. Teradyne reports pro forma results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Management believes the pro forma measure helps indicate underlying trends in Teradyne's business, and management uses pro forma measures to plan and forecast future periods, and to establish operational goals.
 
Earnings guidance is provided only on a pro forma basis due to the difficulty in forecasting and quantifying the amounts that would be required to be included in the GAAP measure. Although Teradyne expects certain known charges, such as some amount of severance due to workforce reductions, other additional charges excluded from the pro forma measure are dependent on numerous presently unknown factors. For example, further goodwill or real estate impairment charges are dependent upon future market conditions and valuations that are not presently determinable.
 
Pro forma information is not determined using GAAP and should not be considered superior to or as a substitute for GAAP measures or data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
About Teradyne
 
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is the world's largest supplier of Automatic Test Equipment, and a leading supplier of interconnection systems. The company's products deliver competitive advantage to the world's leading semiconductor, electronics, automotive and network systems companies. In 2002, Teradyne had sales of $1.22 billion, and currently employs about 6300 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne is a trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the US and other countries.
www.teradyne.com
Safe Harbor Statement
 
Some statements in this release are forward-looking statements made under Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements are made pursuant to the "safe harbor" provisions established by securities legislation, and are based on the assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management at the time such statements are made. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees but involve risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that could cause Teradyne's financial results to differ materially from our expectations. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding our revenue and profit and loss expectations, our future business strategies and market opportunities, improvements in our business, backlog and design-ins, demand for our products and the general economic outlook. Among the factors that could cause results to differ from expectations are the following: recurrent downturn or slower recovery in market demand for electronics (including especially the markets for semiconductor and telecommunications equipment) which has been affected by the economic slowdown that began in 2000; uncertainty and adverse changes in general economies worldwide; geopolitical turmoil or the threat of terrorist attacks; uncertainty regarding the future growth rate of worldwide economies, which has caused many companies to reduce or delay capital investment; technological and market changes; Teradyne's ability to protect its intellectual property; the historically cyclical nature of the markets that Teradyne serves; new product development and delays; uncertainty of customer acceptance of new orders; decisions by customers to cancel or defer orders that previously had been accepted; the presence of intense competition throughout the world in each of our operating segments from substantial competitors; the effectiveness of our implementation of cost cutting and expense control measures, including facility consolidations, employee reductions, the centralization of certain shared services, seeking lower prices from suppliers and the outsourcing of selected manufacturing and engineering activities; the possibility of intense price competition and the resulting prospect of having to lower our prices and therefore possibly our revenue; the impact of and our ability to manage the effects of past or future acquisitions or divestitures; the class action securities litigation brought against Teradyne; the increase in our debt service obligations and debt to capital ratio resulting from our issuance of $400 million aggregate principal amount of senior convertible notes in 2001; the availability of additional financing; the impact of being required to account for stock options as an expense; the ability to attract and retain key employees; the risks of potential environmental liability; the risks of operating internationally which include political and economic instability and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and in policy changes affecting international markets; and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including, but not limited to, Teradyne's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Teradyne assumes no obligation to update the information in this press release.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR THIRD FISCAL QUARTER OF 2003
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS (GAAP) (in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
3rd Quarter Activity
 
 
 
The asset impairment charge of $3.8 million, which is included in the Restructuring and Other Charges line on the GAAP Operating Statement, for the third quarter of 2002 consists of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The other gain of $1.7 million for the third quarter of 2002 consists of a $7.1 million gain from the repayment of a loan to a divested entity previously valued at zero, offset to a lesser extent by an other-than-temporary impairment of a common stock investment of $3.1 million and a writedown of a mortgage loan to an engineering services provider of $2.3 million. The gain is included on the Other and Interest line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The charges are included in the Restructuring and Other Charges line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
 
 
 
The third quarter of 2002 pro forma tax benefit reflects a 36% effective tax rate.
 
Nine Month Activity
 
 
 
The asset impairment charge of $4.6 million, which is included in the Restructuring and Other Charges line on the GAAP Operating Statement, in the first nine months of 2002 consists of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The other gain of $1.7 million for the first nine months of 2002 consists of a $7.1 million gain from the repayment of a loan to a divested entity previously valued at zero, offset to a lesser extent by an other-than-temporary impairment of a common stock investment of $3.1 million and a writedown of a mortgage loan to an engineering services provider of $2.3 million. The gain is included on the Other and Interest line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
 
 
 
In the GAAP Operating Statement, the $10.2 million charge is classified as:
 
 
 
 
 
The facility closure charge of $44.4 million in the first nine months of 2002 consists of the following:
 
 
The first nine months of 2002 charges are included in the Restructuring and Other Charges line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
 
 
 
The first nine months of 2002 pro forma tax benefit reflects a 36% effective tax rate.
 


