FILE:TER/TER-8K-20040421075714.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is filed as a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 20, 2004, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended April 4, 2004. The Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
TERADYNE ANNOUNCES FIRST QUARTER PROFITS
 
BOSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)April 20, 2004Teradyne, Inc. reported sales of $430.6 million for the first quarter of 2004, and net income of $40.2 million, or $0.20 per share. Net orders for the quarter increased 13% from the previous quarter, to $551.2 million.
 
"Our performance in the first quarter was strong, with continued order growth after a great fourth quarter," said George Chamillard, Teradyne Chairman and CEO. "As a result of the strong first quarter orders, we will continue to increase shipments in the second quarter to meet customer demand. We expect sales to be between $500 and $525 million, with EPS between 32 and 38 cents."
 
Conference Call/Webcast
 
Teradyne will be conducting its conference call tomorrow, April 21, 2004, at 10:00 a.m. E.D.T. The call will be webcast at (click on "Investors"). A replay will be available via phone starting at Noon E.D.T. and continuing through May 5, 2004. The replay may be accessed by calling 1-800-642-1687 in the US and Canada, or 706-645-9291 outside the US and Canada, and providing conference code 6603186, or by visiting and clicking on "Investors" for a link to the replay
www.teradyne.com
www.teradyne.com
 
About Teradyne
 
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment, and interconnection systems. The company's products deliver competitive advantage to the world's leading semiconductor, electronics, automotive and network systems companies. In 2003, Teradyne had sales of $ 1.4 billion, and currently employs about 6200 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne is a trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the US and other countries.
www.teradyne.com
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws, which are based on the assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management at the time such statements are made. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees but involve risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that could cause Teradyne's actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding our revenue, earnings, profit and loss expectations, order growth, future business strategies and market opportunities, improvements in our business, demand for our products and general economic outlook. Among the risk factors are: adverse changes in general economic or market conditions, including market demand for electronics; war or the threat of terrorist attacks; reductions or delays in capital investment; technological and market changes; disruptions or delays in Teradyne's supply chain; Teradyne's ability to protect its intellectual property; the historically cyclical nature of the markets that Teradyne serves; new product development introductions and transitions and any delays; uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings including the timing, price and mix of new product acceptance; decisions by customers to cancel or defer orders that previously had been accepted; competitive pressures including pricing and gross margin pressures;
the effectiveness of our implementation of cost cutting and expense control measures, including facility consolidations, employee reductions, the centralization of certain shared services, seeking lower prices from suppliers and the outsourcing of selected manufacturing and engineering activities; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; disruptions, delays and shortages in raw material and component availability, internal and external manufacturing capability, and raw material and component quality; the impact of and our ability to manage the effects of past or future acquisitions or divestitures; the class action securities litigation brought against Teradyne; the increase in our debt service obligations and debt to capital ratio resulting from our issuance of $400 million aggregate principal amount of senior convertible notes in 2001; the availability of additional financing; the impact of being required to account for stock options as an expense; the ability to attract and retain key employees; the risks of potential environmental liability; the risks of operating internationally which include political and economic instability and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and in policy changes affecting international markets; and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including, but not limited to, Teradyne's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Teradyne assumes no obligation to update the information in this press release.
 
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR FIRST FISCAL QUARTER OF 2004
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.
 
Contacts
Teradyne, Inc.
Tom Newman, V.P., Corporate Investor Relations
617-422-2425


