FILE:TER/TER-8K-20040114215900.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is filed as a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(c)    Exhibits.
 
 
Item 12.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 14, 2004, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2003. The Company's press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PRESS RELEASE
 
Teradyne Announces Fourth Quarter Results
 
BOSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)Jan 14, 2004Teradyne, Inc. reported sales of $357.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2003, and a net loss on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) basis of $11.5 million, or $0.06 per share. On a pro forma basis for the fourth quarter, the company had profit of $6.9 million, or $0.04 per share. Net orders for the quarter increased 45% from the previous quarter, to $488.2 million.
 
"We ended 2003 with very strong order growth," said George Chamillard, Teradyne Chairman and CEO. "With this momentum, coupled with our cost reduction efforts, we expect to deliver solid profit growth in the first quarter of 2004. We are projecting sales to be between $400 and $430 million, with earnings between 10 and 18 cents per share on a GAAP basis. Demand for our products is very strong, particularly in semiconductor test, and we are aggressively ramping to support our customers."
 
Conference Call/Webcast
 
Teradyne will be conducting its conference call tomorrow, January 15, 2004, at 10:00 a.m. E.S.T. The call will be webcast at www.teradyne.com (click on "Investors"). A replay will be available via phone starting at Noon E.S.T. and continuing through January 29, 2004. The replay may be accessed by calling 1-800-642-1687 in the US and Canada, or 706-645-9291 outside the US and Canada, and providing conference code 4792956, or by visiting www.teradyne.com and clicking on "Investors" for a link to the replay. In our earnings release, conference call and webcast, we may use or discuss pro forma, or non-GAAP, financial measures as defined by SEC Regulation G. The GAAP financial measure most directly comparable to each non-GAAP financial measure used or discussed (if available) and a reconciliation of the differences between each non-GAAP financial measure and the comparable GAAP financial measure can be found on the Teradyne website at www.teradyne.com, by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the GAAP Reconciliation link.
 
Pro Forma Results
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses pro forma or non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain charges and credits. Teradyne reports pro forma results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Management believes the pro forma measure helps indicate underlying trends in Teradyne's business, and management uses pro forma measures to plan and forecast future periods, and to establish operational goals. Earnings guidance is being provided on a GAAP basis. Pro forma information is not determined using GAAP and should not be considered superior to or as a substitute for GAAP measures or data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
About Teradyne
 
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is the world's largest supplier of Automatic Test Equipment, and a leading supplier of interconnection systems. The company's products deliver competitive advantage to the world's leading semiconductor, electronics, automotive and network systems companies. In 2003, Teradyne had sales of $ 1.4 billion, and currently employs about 6100 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.teradyne.com. Teradyne is a trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the US and other countries.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws, which are based on the assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management at the time such statements are made. These statements are neither promises nor guarantees but involve risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that could cause Teradyne's actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements regarding our revenue, earnings, profit and loss expectations, order growth, future business strategies and market opportunities, improvements in our business, demand for our products and general economic outlook.Among the risk factors are: adverse changes in general economic or market conditions, including market demand for electronics; war or the threat of terrorist attacks; reductions or delays in capital investment; technological and market changes; disruptions or delays in Teradyne's supply chain; Teradyne's ability to protect its intellectual property; the historically cyclical nature of the markets that Teradyne serves; new product development introductions and transitions and any delays; uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings including the timing, price and mix of new product acceptance; decisions by customers to cancel or defer orders that previously had been accepted; competitive pressures including pricing and gross margin pressures; the effectiveness of our implementation of cost cutting and expense control measures, including facility consolidations, employee reductions, the centralization of certain shared services, seeking lower prices from suppliers and the outsourcing of selected manufacturing and engineering activities; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; disruptions, delays and shortages in raw material and component availability; internal and external manufacturing capability; raw material and component quality; the impact of and our ability to manage the effects of past or future acquisitions or divestitures; the class action securities litigation brought against Teradyne; the increase in our debt service obligations and debt to capital ratio resulting from our issuance of $400 million aggregate principal amount of senior convertible notes in 2001; the availability of additional financing; the impact of being required to account for stock options as an expense; the ability to attract and retain key employees; the risks of potential environmental liability; the risks of operating internationally which include political and economic instability and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and in policy changes affecting international markets; and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including, but not limited to, Teradyne's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Teradyne assumes no obligation to update the information in this press release.
 
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR FOURTH FISCAL QUARTER OF 2003
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS (GAAP) (in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
RECONCILIATION OF GAAP TO PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
The following is a reconciliation of GAAP Net Loss to Pro Forma Net Income (Loss):
 
4th Quarter Activity
The facility closure charge of $18.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2002 consists of future lease commitments for facilities which were exited prior to the end of the lease term. The $18.1 million charge consists of the following:
The charges are included in the Restructuring and Other Charges line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
The $20.7 million provision for product lines in the fourth quarter of 2002 at the Semiconductor Test Division is due to a lack of demand for the Probe-One product and the discontinuance of the J996 product after a last time buy offer to our customers. The provision is included in the Cost of Revenues line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
The $7.6 million charge for accelerated depreciation in the fourth quarter of 2002 relates to the incremental additional depreciation over the normal depreciation expense for long-lived assets as a result of the decision to consolidate locations and therefore shorten the service period. The charge includes:
In the GAAP Operating Statement, the $7.6 million charge is classified as:
The asset impairment charge of $28.4 million, which is included in the Restructuring and Other Charges line on the GAAP Operating Statement, for the fourth quarter of 2002 consists of the following:
Year Activity
The facility closure charge of $62.5 million in the twelve months of 2002 consists of the following:
The twelve months of 2002 and 2003 charges are included in the Restructuring and Other Charges line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
The $20.7 million provision for product lines in the twelve months of 2002 at the Semiconductor Test Division is due to a lack of demand for the Probe-One product and the discontinuance of the J996 product after a last time buy offer to our customers. The provision is included in the Cost of Revenues line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
In the GAAP Operating Statement, the $12.6 million charge is classified as:
The $7.6 million charge for accelerated depreciation in the twelve months of 2002 relates to the incremental additional depreciation over the normal depreciation expense for long-lived assets as a result of the decision to consolidate locations and therefore shorten the service period. The charge includes:
In the GAAP Operating Statement, the $7.6 million charge is classified as:
The asset impairment charge of $33.0 million, which is included in the Restructuring and Other Charges line on the GAAP Operating Statement, in the twelve months of 2002 consists of the following:
The other gain of $1.7 million for the twelve months of 2002 consists of a $7.1 million gain from the repayment of a loan to a divested entity previously valued at zero, offset to a lesser extent by an other-than-temporary impairment of a common stock investment of $3.1 million and a writedown of a mortgage loan to an engineering services provider of $2.3 million. The gain is included on the Other Income and Expense, Net line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
The asset impairment charge of $7.3 million is included in the Restructuring and Other Charges line on the GAAP Operating Statement. The excess inventory charges of $1.4 million is included on the Cost of Revenues line on the GAAP Operating Statement.
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.
 
 
Contacts
Teradyne, Inc.
Tom Newman, 617-422-2425
V.P., Corporate Investor Relations
tom.newman@teradyne.com


