FILE:TER/TER-8K-20040903182347.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On September 3, 2004, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") entered into an Agreement Regarding Termination Benefits (the "Agreement") with Michael A. Bradley. The term of the Agreement is for a period of three (3) years beginning on the execution date and shall be automatically extended for additional one (1) year periods unless terminated by Teradyne pursuant to the terms thereof. The Agreement provides that if Mr. Bradley's employment is terminated by Teradyne for any reason other than death, disability (subject to Section 4.2 of the Agreement), or cause regardless of whether prior to, following or relating to a change of control, Teradyne shall pay Mr. Bradley a monthly amount equal to 1/12
th
of his then current annual compensation beginning on the date his employment is terminated and continuing for a period of twenty-four (24) months thereafter (the "Severance Period").
 
The Agreement also provides certain benefits to Mr. Bradley during the Severance Period, including but not limited to: (i) continued health, dental and vision insurance plan coverage; and (ii) stock options held by Mr. Bradley shall stay in effect and be governed exclusively by the respective plans and agreements.
 
In consideration of the benefits provided to Mr. Bradley under the Agreement, Mr. Bradley agreed with Teradyne, among other things, that: (i) during the term of the Agreement and the Severance Period, Mr. Bradley will not directly engage in any solicitation or hiring of employees or customers of Teradyne or its subsidiaries; (ii) during the term of the Agreement and the Severance Period he will not compete with Teradyne or its subsidiaries (as further defined in the Agreement); and (iii) he will sign a release of any claims he has or may have against Teradyne or Teradyne's subsidiaries.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.45
 
 
This "Agreement Regarding Termination Benefits" ("Agreement") is entered into as of September 3, 2004 (the "Effective Date") between Teradyne, Inc., a Massachusetts Corporation with a principal office at 321 Harrison Avenue, Boston, Mass. 02118 (the "Company") and Michael A. Bradley with a residential address of 8 Barnstable Road, West Newton, Mass. 02465 ("Executive").
 
WHEREAS, Executive was recently elected by the Company's Board of Directors as its Chief Executive Officer and is now employed by the Company as its President and Chief Executive Officer; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company and Executive have now agreed on certain Termination Benefits in the event the Executive's employment with the Company terminates under the conditions described herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
 
1. This Agreement shall become effective as of the date set forth in the opening paragraph. Subject to the provisions of Sections 4 and 9 below and unless earlier terminated as permitted herein, this Agreement shall continue in effect for a period of three (3) years from the Effective Date ("Term") and thereafter, the Term shall automatically be extended for additional one year periods unless, not later than sixty (60) days prior to the end of the then current Term, the Company shall have given notice to the Executive not to extend the then current Term.
Effective Date and Term:
 
2. For purposes of this Agreement, capitalized terms shall be defined as follows:
Definitions:
 
" shall mean the Executive's annual "model compensation" as determined by the Company's Compensation Committee or Board of Directors, which consists of (a) a fixed monthly salary and (b) an annual variable amount based upon overall corporate and group performance.
Model Compensation"
 
" shall mean conduct involving one or more of the following: (i) the substantial and continuing failure of the Executive, after notice thereof, to render services to Company in accordance with the terms or requirements of his employment, as established by the Company Board of Directors from time to time and communicated to the Executive; (ii) the Executive's disloyalty, gross negligence, willful misconduct, dishonesty, fraud or breach of fiduciary duty to the Company; (iii) the Executive's deliberate disregard of the rules or policies of, or breach of an agreement with, Company which results in direct or indirect material loss, damage or injury to the Company; (iv) the intentional, unauthorized disclosure by the Executive of any trade secret or confidential
Cause"
 
information of the Company; (v) the commission by the Executive of an act which constitutes unfair competition with the Company or (vi) the conviction of, or the entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere by the Executive, to any crime involving moral turpitude or any felony.
 
shall be deemed to have occurred upon the occurrence of any of the following events: (i) any consolidation, cash tender offer, reorganization, re-capitalization, merger or plan of share exchange following which the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such transaction own less than a majority of the combined voting power of the then-outstanding securities of the combined corporation or person immediately after such transaction; (ii) any sale, lease, exchange or other transfer of all or substantially all of the Company's assets; (iii) the adoption by the Board of Directors of Company of any plan or proposal for the liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (iv) a change in the majority of the Board of Directors of the Company through one or more contested elections; orv) any person (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) or Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) becomes beneficial owner of 30% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's outstanding voting securities.
"Change in Control"
(
 
"shall mean "Teradyne, Inc. and shall include its successors and assigns, and any corporation or other entity which is the surviving or continuing entity following a merger, consolidation, or sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or stock.
Company"
 
" includes, but is not limited to, any business or enterprise that develops, designs, produces, markets, sells, or renders any product or service developed, produced, marketed, sold or rendered by the Company, including actual or demonstrably anticipated research or development.
Competitor"
 
" shall mean the last day of Executive's employment with the Company.
Date of Termination"
 
" shall mean an illness, injury or other incapacitating condition as a result of which the Executive is absent from full time performance of his duties with the Company or is unable to perform his duties and responsibilities for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days during the Term or a period or periods aggregating to more than ninety (90) days in any consecutive six (6) month period but shall not include death.
Disability"
 
" shall include the following:
Restricted Activities"
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. In consideration of (a) the Executive's "at-will" employment with the Company following the Executive's recent election to the position of Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the compensation payments made to the Executive as a consequence thereof and (b) the Company's willingness to enter into an agreement regarding termination benefits, specifically this Agreement, the Executive covenants and agrees that during the Term of this Agreement and for two (2) years after the Executive's Date of Termination resulting from the Executive's Resignation, Retirement or a termination by the Company for Cause, the Executive will not directly or indirectly engage in any of the Restricted Activities.
Employment & Agreement Consideration:
 
4.
Termination Benefits and Covenants:
 
4.1 In consideration of, and as condition to, the Executive providing to the Company the covenants and agreements set forth in Section
For the Executive:
 
4.3 below, the Company shall provide the following Termination Benefits to the Executive if his employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for any reason other than for Death, Disability, or Cause, regardless of whether prior to, following or relating to a Change of Control.
 
(a) The Company shall pay the Executive a monthly amount equal to 1/12
Continued Payments:
th
of his current annual Model Compensation as of the Date of Termination for a period of twenty-four (24) months from the Date of Termination (the "Severance Period"). Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, under no circumstances shall the Executive receive more than a total of twenty-four (24) months of payments under this Agreement. All such continued payments shall be in accord with the Company's usual model compensation pay practices.
 
(b) During the Severance Period, the Company shall arrange for continued health, dental and vision insurance plan coverage for the Executive at the same levels of coverage in existence prior to the Date of Termination subject to the Company and Executive each contributing to the applicable insurance premium payments on the same basis and in the same proportions as in existence at the Date of Termination. If the Executive is not eligible for continued health, dental and vision insurance plan coverage for any portion of the Severance Period, the Company shall provide or reimburse the Executive for comparable individual insurance and, if such provision or reimbursement constitutes taxable income to the Executive, such additional amount as is necessary to place the Executive in substantially the same after tax position as he was while an employee of the Company with respect to such insurance plan coverages. All other benefits, including but not limited to flex/vacation time accrual, short and long term disability insurance, and life insurance, contributions (including company matches) into savings plan and savings plan plus, profit sharing payments and participation in the Executive stock purchase plan shall cease as of the Date of Termination.
Benefits:
 
(c) All stock options held by the Executive shall be governed exclusively by the terms of the applicable Stock Option Plan(s) and Stock Option Agreements (including any successor plans and agreements) under which the stock options were granted to the Executive and the Executive Officer Change in Control Agreement between the Executive and the Company dated October 19, 2001. Except as otherwise expressly stated herein, this Agreement shall not modify or alter any of the terms applicable to the Executive's stock options, including but not limited to the vesting schedule.
Stock Options:
 
(d) All payments made by the Company to the Executive under this Agreement shall be net of any applicable taxes (whether local, state, federal, provincial or otherwise) or other required or voluntary withholdings or deductions.
Taxes and Withholdings:
 
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event the Executive dies after (i) his employment with the Company has been terminated for any reason other than Death, Disability and Cause and (ii) his right to the Termination Benefits stated in Section 4.1 has attached, the Company agrees that the Executive's estate, conservator or designated beneficiary(ies), as the case may be, shall be entitled to the remainder of the Executive's Termination Benefits described in Section 4.1.
 
4.2 Notwithstanding the preceding Section 4.1 and in consideration of, and as condition to, the Executive providing to the Company the covenants and agreements set forth in Section 4.3 below, the Company agrees that if the Executive's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for Disability, the Company shall:
 
(a) provide the monthly payments described in Section 4.1(a) above, as reduced pursuant to 4.2(b) below, to the Executive for each month during the two (2) year period following his termination during which the Executive does not receive or is no longer eligible to receive any Company Disability insurance benefits under the applicable insurance policy or program(s), other than as a result of Executive's intentional malfeasance or death; and
 
(b) under this Section 4.2, reduce each monthly payment described in Section 4.1(a) above to the Executive by any compensation received by the Executive from other employment, consulting or the rendition of services outside the Restricted Activities.
 
The Executive agrees to use his best efforts to obtain and maintain any benefits from any disability policy or program under which he is an insured party or participant.
 
4.3 In consideration of, and as a condition to, the Company providing to the Executive the Termination Benefits set forth in Sections 4.1 and 4.2, the Executive covenants and agrees:
Executive's Covenants:
 
(a) that during the Term of this Agreement and for two (2) years after the Executive's Date of Termination resulting from a termination by the Company for any reason other than for Death, Disability, or Cause, regardless of whether prior to, following or relating to a Change of Control, the Executive will not directly or indirectly engage in any of the Restricted Activities.
 
(b) to sign a release of any claims he has or may have against the Company, including its subsidiaries, in connection with or relating to his employment by and/or termination from employment with the Company in the form attached hereto as within twenty-one (21) days of his Date of Termination resulting from a termination by the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company agrees and hereby acknowledges that the Release contained in is not intended to and does not (i) apply to any claims the Executive may have pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, the Executive
Attachment A,
Attachment A
 
Officer Change in Control Agreement, or any outstanding Stock Option Agreement and applicable Stock Option Plan; (ii) release the Company of any obligation it may have pursuant to a written agreement, the Company's articles or organization or bylaws or as mandated by statute to indemnify the Executive as an officer or director of the Company; and (iii) release the Company of any obligation to provide and/or pay benefits to the Executive or the Executive's estate, conservator or designated beneficiary (ies) under and in accordance with the terms of any applicable Company benefit plan and/or program.
 
(c) to continue to comply with any post-termination obligations he may have to the Company arising from this Agreement or any other agreement the Executive has with the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates or divisions, including but not limited to the following:
 
 
(d) to cooperate with and provide all reasonable assistance to the Company, with respect to any civil, criminal or administrative investigations, actions and/or proceedings involving the Company and relating in any way to Executive's positions, duties and responsibilities while at the Company or to any matters which the Executive handled, participated in or had knowledge of while employed by the Company, including but not limited to the Kathleen Guerra et al vs. Teradyne, Inc. et al case (Civ. A. No. 01CV11789NG) currently pending in the U.S. District Court (District of Massachusetts).
 
(e) not to make any false or disparaging or derogatory statements or remarks to any person or entity about the Company's (including its subsidiaries') business affairs, financial condition, or about any Company or subsidiary directors, officers, employees, stockholders and agents.
 
4.4 Within sixty (60) days of the Executive's termination of employment, for any reason, or his resignation or retirement, the Executive shall (a) return to the Company all Company property in his possession or control, including all electronic documents; and (b) submit all documentation for any reimbursements owed to the Executive for business expenses incurred prior to the Date of Termination.
 
4.5 Except as expressly stated otherwise in Section 4.2, the Executive shall not be eligible for or receive any of the Termination Benefits described in Section 4.1 above upon (a) the Executive's resignation of or retirement from employment with the Company, (b) the termination of Executive's employment with the Company resulting from Death or Disability, or (c) the termination of Executive's employment by the Company for Cause.
No Termination Benefits:
 
5. : Any termination of the Executive's employment by the Company (other than by reason of Death) shall (a) be in writing; (b) indicate the basis for termination (such as with or without Cause, Disability, etc) and with respect to a termination for Cause indicate the basis for termination in reasonable detail and (c) be delivered to the Executive in accordance with Section 17 below.
Termination Notice
 
6. : Any resignation or retirement by Executive shall be (a) in writing, (b) explain the resignation or retirement and (c) be delivered to the Company at least ninety (90) days in advance of the resignation or retirement date and otherwise in accordance with Section 17 below.
Resignation or Retirement Notice
 
7. Upon termination of Executive's employment by the Company for any reason or the resignation of or retirement from employment by the Executive, the Executive shall provide the Chairman of the Board with his written resignation from the Company's Board and all subsidiary Boards, and the Board may choose to accept or reject the Executive's resignation as a Company Board member.
Resignation as a Director:
 
8. Nothing in this Agreement shall confer upon any person or entity not a party to this Agreement, or the legal representative, executor, administrator or heir of such person or entity, any rights or remedies of any nature or kind whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.
No Third Party Beneficiaries:
 
9. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as an express or implied contract of employment between the Executive and the Company (or its subsidiaries, affiliate or divisions) or as a commitment on the part of the Company to retain Executive in any capacity for any period of time. Executive understands that the employment relationship between the Executive and Teradyne will be "at will" and the Executive understands that the Company may terminate Executive with or without "Cause" at any time or for any or no reason. Following any Change in Control, the Company may also terminate Employee with or without "Cause" at any time subject to the terms of this Agreement and the Executive's rights and the Company's obligations specified in the Executive Officer Change in Control Agreement previously executed between the Company and the Executive dated October 19, 2001.
No Obligation of Employment
 
10. Executive acknowledges that (a) the services to be rendered under this Agreement and the obligations of the Executive assume herein are of a special, unique and extraordinary character, (b) it would be difficult or impossible to replace such services and obligations, (c) the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates will be irreparably harmed, and (d) the award of monetary damages will not adequately protect the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates in the event of a breach hereof by the Executive. As a result, the Executive agrees and consents that if he violates any of the provisions of this Agreement, the Company shall, without any bond or other security, being required and without the necessity of proving monetary damages, be entitled to temporary and/or permanent injunctive relief to be issued by a court of competent jurisdiction retraining the Executive from committing or continuing any violation of this Agreement or any other appropriate decree of specific performance. Such remedies shall
Specific Performance:
 
not be exclusive and shall be in addition to any other remedy the Company may have whether at law or in equity.
 
11. : Except for the equitable relief provisions set forth in Section 10, the Executive and the Company agree that any dispute, controversy or claim arising between the parties relating to this Agreement, otherwise relating in any way to Executive's employment with and/or termination from the Company, or relating to Executive's relationship as a director or in any other capacity for the Company (whether such dispute arises under any federal, state or local statute or regulation, or at common law), shall be resolved by final and binding arbitration before a single arbitrator. The arbitrator shall be selected in accordance with the Employment Dispute Resolution Rules of the American Arbitration Association ("AAA") pertaining at the time the dispute arises. The parties agree that such arbitration shall take place at the offices of the AAA in Boston, Massachusetts. In such arbitration proceedings, the arbitrator shall have the discretion, to be exercised in accordance with applicable law, to allocate among the parties the arbitrator's fees, tribunal and other administrative and litigation costs and, to the prevailing party, reasonable attorneys' fees. The award of the arbitrator may be confirmed before and entered as a judgment of any court having jurisdiction of the parties.
Dispute Resolution
 
12. . This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts without giving effect to the conflicts of law principles thereof, and this Agreement shall be deemed to be performable in Massachusetts.
Governing Law
 
13. . In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement for any reason shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement and this Agreement shall be construed to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Severability
 
14. . This Agreement may be modified, and the rights, remedies and obligations contained in any provision hereof may be waived, only in accordance with this Section 14. No waiver by either party of any breach by the other or any provision hereof shall be deemed to be a waiver of any later or other breach thereof or as a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement. This Agreement may not be waived, changed, discharged or terminated orally or by any course of dealing between the parties, but only by an instrument in writing signed by the party against whom any waiver, change, discharge or termination is sought.
Waivers and Modifications
 
15. . Executive may not assign any of his rights or delegate any of his duties or obligations under this Agreement. The rights and obligations of the Company under this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be binding upon, the successors and assigns of the Company.
Assignment
 
16. . This Agreement constitutes the entire understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersedes and cancels all agreements, written or oral, made prior to the date hereof between Executive and the Company relating to the subject matter hereof; provided, however, that the following Executive Agreements, as may be modified herein, shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms.
Entire Agreement
 
17. . All notices hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered (a) in person, (b) mailed by U.S. certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, (c) sent via facsimile with a confirmed facsimile transmission receipt, or (d) sent via overnight delivery with a confirmed receipt of delivery; in each instance addressed, if to the Executive or the Company, as the case may be at the address noted below or to such other address as either party may furnish to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notice of a change of address shall be effective only upon actual receipt.
Notices
 
To the Company:
Teradyne, Inc.
321 Harrison Avenue
Boston, Mass. 02118
Attention: General Counsel
 
To the Executive:
Michael A. Bradley
8 Barnstable Road
West Newton, Mass. 02465
 
With a copy to the Executive's Counsel:
Robert L. Birnbaum, Esq.
Foley Hoag, LLP
Seaport World Trade Center West
155 Seaport Boulevard
Boston, Mass. 02210-2600
 
18. . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
19. . The descriptive section headings herein have been inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, or otherwise affect the construction of any provision hereof.
Section Headings
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed as a sealed instrument by the Company, by a duly authorized director, and by the Executive.
 
 
 
 
In consideration of the payment and receipt of the Termination Benefits described in the "Agreement Regarding Termination Benefits" dated September 3, 2004 between me and Teradyne, Inc. of 321 Harrison Avenue, Boston, Mass. 02118 (the "Company"), all of which I acknowledge I would not otherwise be entitled to receive and except as otherwise expressly excluded under Section 4.3(b) of said Agreement, I hereby fully, forever, irrevocably and unconditionally release, remise and discharge the Company, its successors and assigns and their respective officers, directors, stockholders, corporate affiliates, subsidiaries, parent companies, agents and employees (each in their individual and corporate capacities) (hereinafter, the "Released Parties") from any and all claims, charges, complaints, demands, actions, causes of action, suits, rights, debts, sums of money, costs, accounts, reckonings, covenants, contracts, agreements, promises, doings, omissions, damages, executions, obligations, liabilities, and expenses (including attorneys' fees and costs), of every kind and nature which I ever had or now have against the Released Parties arising out of my employment with and/or termination or separation from the Company or relating to my relationship as a Director or in any other capacity for the Company, including, but not limited to, all employment discrimination claims under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, 42 U.S.C. 2000e et seq., the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C.  621 et seq., the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C., 12101 et seq., the Family and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C.  2601 et seq., and the Massachusetts Fair Employment Practices Act., M.G.L. c.151B, 1 et seq., all as amended; all claims arising out of the Fair Credit Reporting Act, 15 U.S.C. 1681 et seq., the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA"), 29 U.S.C. 1001 et seq., the Massachusetts Civil Rights Act, M.G.L. c.12 11H and 11I, the Massachusetts Equal Rights Act, M.G.L. c.93, 102 and M.G.L. c.214, 1C, the Massachusetts Labor and Industries Act, M.G.L. c.149, 1 et seq., the Massachusetts Privacy Act, M.G.L. c. 214, 1B, and the Massachusetts Maternity Leave Act, M.G.L. c. 149, 105(d), all as amended; all common law claims including, but not limited to, actions in tort, defamation and breach of contract; all claims to any non-vested ownership interest in the Company, contractual or otherwise, including but not limited to claims to stock or stock options; and any claim or damage arising out of my employment with, termination or separation from the Company (including a claim for retaliation) under any common law theory or any federal, state or local statute or ordinance not expressly referenced above; provided, however, that nothing in this Release Agreement prevents me from filing, cooperating with, or participating in any proceeding before the EEOC or a state Fair Employment Practices Agency (except that I acknowledge that I may not be able to recover any monetary benefits in connection with any such claim, charge or proceeding).
 
Waiver of Rights and Claims Under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967:
Since I am 40 years of age or older, I have been informed that I have or may have specific rights and/or claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (ADEA) and I agree that:
 
(a) in consideration for the severance payments and benefits described in Section 4.1 of the Agreement Regarding Termination Benefits, which I am not otherwise entitled to receive, I specifically and voluntarily waive such rights and/or claims under the ADEA I might have against the Company Releasees to the extent such rights and/or claims arose prior to the date this Release Agreement was executed;
 
(b) I understand that rights or claims under the ADEA which may arise after the date this Release Agreement is executed are not waived by me;
 
(c) I was advised that I have at least 21 days within which to consider the terms of Attachment A and to consult with or seek advice from an attorney of my choice or any other person of your choosing prior to executing this Release Agreement;
 
(d) I have carefully read and fully understand all of the provisions of this Release Agreement, and I knowingly and voluntarily agree to all of the terms set forth in this Release Agreement; and
 
(e) in entering into this Release Agreement I am not relying on any representation, promise or inducement made by the Company or its attorneys with the exception of those promises described in this document.
 
Period for Review and Consideration of Agreement:
 
I acknowledge that I was informed and understand that I have twenty-one (21) days to review this Release Agreement and consider its terms before signing it.
 
The 21-day review period will not be affected or extended by any revisions, whether material or immaterial, that might be made to this Agreement.
 
Accord and Satisfaction: The amounts set forth in the Agreement Regarding Termination Benefits shall be complete and unconditional payment, settlement, accord and/or satisfaction with respect to all obligations and liabilities of the Released Parties to me, including, without limitation, all claims for back wages, salary, vacation pay, draws, incentive pay, bonuses, stock and stock options, commissions, severance pay, reimbursement of expenses, any and all other forms of compensation or benefits, attorney's fees, or other costs or sums.
 
Revocation Period: I may revoke this Release Agreement at any time during the seven-day period immediately following my execution hereof. As a result, this Release Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable and the Company shall have no obligation to make any payments or provide any benefits described herein until the seven-day revocation period has expired.
 
 
 
 
I, Michael A. Bradley, acknowledge that I was informed and understand that I have 21 days within which to consider the attached Severance Agreement and Release, have been advised of my right to consult with an attorney regarding such Agreement and have considered carefully every provision of the Agreement, and that after having engaged in those actions, I prefer to and have requested that I enter into the Agreement prior to the expiration of the 21 day period.
 
 


