FILE:TER/TER-8K-20041019213633.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 19, 2004, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended October 3, 2004. The Company's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is furnished as a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
*Furnished, not filed.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Business Editors/Technology Writers
 
BOSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)Oct. 19, 2004Teradyne, Inc. reported sales of $457.8 million for the third quarter of 2004, and net income of $41.1 million, or $0.21 per share. Net orders for the quarter were $284.1 million.
 
"Our customers sharply lowered their capital spending in the third quarter, resulting in a significant reduction in our orders compared with the second quarter," said Mike Bradley, Teradyne's President and CEO. "We're responding to this by lowering our shipment plan and reducing our costs in the fourth quarter. At the same time, we're maintaining our investments in new products and customer support. Our guidance for the fourth quarter is for sales to be between $360 and $380 million, with earnings per share of between break-even and four cents."
 
Conference Call/Webcast
 
Teradyne will be conducting its conference call tomorrow, October 20, 2004, at 10:00 a.m. E.D.T. The call will be webcast at www.teradyne.com (click on "Investors"). A replay will be available via phone starting at Noon E.D.T. and continuing through November 3, 2004. The replay may be accessed by calling 1-800-642-1687 in the US and Canada, or 706-645-9291 outside the US and Canada, and providing conference code 1164207, or by visiting www.teradyne.com and clicking on "Investors" for a link to the replay.
 
About Teradyne
 
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment, and interconnection systems. The company's products deliver competitive advantage to the world's leading semiconductor, electronics, automotive and network systems companies. In 2003, Teradyne had sales of $1.4 billion, and currently employs about 6300 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.teradyne.com. Teradyne(R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the US and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This release contains statements regarding expected future revenues and earnings and future market conditions which are "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees but involve risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that could cause Teradyne's actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. There can be no assurance that such estimates of future results will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: adverse changes in general economic or market conditions, including market demand for electronics and the current downturn in the semiconductor industry; reductions or delays in capital investment by our customers; the decision by customers to cancel or defer orders that previously had been accepted; reduced bookings; the "hockey-stick" pattern of sales resulting in a disproportionately large percentage of total quarterly sales occurring in the last month and weeks of each quarter; the historically cyclical nature and volatility of the markets that Teradyne serves; war or the threat of terrorist attacks; disruptions or delays in Teradyne's supply chain; new product development introductions and transitions and any delays; uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings including the timing, price and mix of new product acceptance; competitive pressures including new products, pricing and gross margin pressures; the effectiveness of our implementation of cost cutting and expense control measures, including facility consolidations, employee reductions, the centralization of certain shared services, seeking lower prices from suppliers and the outsourcing of selected manufacturing and engineering activities; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; disruptions, delays or shortages in an adequate supply of raw materials, components or internal and external manufacturing capability; incoming quality of components or raw materials; the impact of our ability to manage the effects of past or future acquisitions or divestitures; the class action securities litigation brought against Teradyne and any other material litigation against Teradyne; the increase in our debt service obligations and debt to capital ratio resulting from our issuance of $400 million aggregate principal amount of senior convertible notes in 2001; the availability of additional financing; Teradyne's obligations in the event of a change of control; the impact of being required to account for stock options as an expense; the ability to attract and retain key employees; the risks of potential environmental liability; the risks of operating internationally which include political and economic instability and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and in policy changes affecting international markets; and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including, but not limited to, Teradyne's annual report on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2003 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q including that for the quarter ended July 4, 2004. The "forward-looking statements" included herein are made only as of the date of publication and Teradyne undertakes no obligation to update the information set forth in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.
 
Contact:    Teradyne, Inc.
Tom Newman, 617-422-2425
 


