FILE:TER/TER-8K-20051027154140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 21, 2005, the Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company"), upon the recommendation of the Company's Compensation Committee, approved certain changes to the cash compensation for non-employee directors, effective January 1, 2006. Directors who are employees of the Company receive no additional compensation for their board service. The following table sets forth the annual cash compensation payable to non-employee directors before and after these changes:
 
 
Non-employee directors also receive a non-cash, equity component of compensation for their board service, which currently consists of a stock option, automatically granted annually in February, to purchase shares of the Company's common shares as set forth below and in accordance with the terms of the Teradyne 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan:
 
 
No changes were made to this non-cash equity compensation; however, the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors continue to review this component of the Company's non-employee director compensation.
 
Pursuant to the Teradyne Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Deferral Plan"), non-employee directors may elect to defer compensation payable to them until they no longer serve as directors. Directors may elect to defer their compensation by investing it in notational interest bearing accounts (based on ten year treasury note interest rates) or the Company's deferred stock unit account. No changes were made to the Deferral Plan.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


