FILE:TER/TER-8K-20050118204343.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On January 18, 2005, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. The Company's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is furnished as a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Teradyne Announces Fourth Quarter Results
 
BOSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)Jan 18, 2005Teradyne, Inc. reported net orders of $297.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2004, an increase of 5% compared to the third quarter of 2004. Sales were $377 million for the fourth quarter of 2004, an 18% decrease from the third quarter of 2004, and net income was $3.3 million or $0.02 per share, compared to net income of $41.1 million or $0.21 in the third quarter of 2004. Net income includes pre-tax restructuring and other charges of $5.1 million in the fourth quarter of 2004.
 
For fiscal 2004, sales were $1.79 billion, a 32% increase over 2003 sales of $1.35 billion. Net income for the year was $165.2 million, or $0.84 per share, compared to a loss of $194 million or $1.03 per share in 2003. Net income for the year includes pre-tax restructuring and other charges of $5.4 million in 2004 and $71.3 million in 2003.
 
"Despite a slight increase in orders in the fourth quarter, customer demand remains tentative," said Mike Bradley, Teradyne President and CEO. "Our competitive position in the System On a Chip test market was strengthened in 2004, and we're continuing to aggressively fund our FLEX R&D program. At the same time, we're reducing costs across a number of areas in the company."
 
Sales in the first quarter of 2005 are expected to be between $290 million and $310 million, with a loss per share between 24 and 31 cents. This guidance includes pre-tax restructuring and other charges of $13 million and a $2.5 million tax provision for foreign and state taxes.
 
Conference Call/Webcast
 
Teradyne will be conducting its conference call tomorrow, January 19, 2005, at 10:00 a.m. E.S.T. The call will be webcast at (click on "Investors"). A replay will be available via phone starting at Noon E.S.T. and continuing through February 2, 2005. The replay may be accessed by calling 1-800-642-1687 in the US and Canada, or 706-645-9291 outside the US and Canada, and providing conference code 3113595, or by visiting and clicking on "Investors" for a link to the replay.
www.teradyne.com
www.teradyne.com
 
About Teradyne
 
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment, and interconnection systems. The company's products deliver competitive advantage to the world's leading semiconductor, electronics, automotive and network systems companies. In 2004, Teradyne had sales of $1.8 billion, and currently employs about 5,900 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the US and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
www.teradyne.com
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This release contains statements regarding expected future revenues and earnings and future market conditions which are "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees but involve risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that could cause Teradyne's actual results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements. There can be no assurance that such estimates of future results will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: adverse changes in general economic or market conditions, including market demand for electronics and the current downturn in the semiconductor industry; reductions or delays in capital investment by our customers; the decision by customers to cancel or defer orders that previously had been accepted; reduced bookings; the "hockey-stick" pattern of sales resulting in a disproportionately large percentage of total quarterly sales occurring in the last month and weeks of each quarter;
the historically cyclical nature and volatility of the markets that Teradyne serves; war or the threat of terrorist attacks; disruptions or delays in Teradyne's supply chain; new product development introductions and transitions and any delays; uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings including the timing, price and mix of new product acceptance; competitive pressures including new products, pricing and gross margin pressures; the effectiveness of our implementation of cost cutting and expense control measures, including facility consolidations, employee reductions, the centralization of certain shared services, seeking lower prices from suppliers and the outsourcing of selected manufacturing and engineering activities; insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; disruptions, delays or shortages in an adequate supply of raw materials, components or internal and external manufacturing capability; incoming quality of components or raw materials; the impact of our ability to manage the effects of past or future acquisitions or divestitures; any material litigation against Teradyne; the increase in our debt service obligations and debt to capital ratio resulting from our issuance of $400 million aggregate principal amount of senior convertible notes in 2001; the availability of additional financing; Teradyne's obligations in the event of a change of control; the impact of being required to account for stock options as an expense; the ability to attract and retain key employees; the risks of potential environmental liability; the risks of operating internationally which include political and economic instability and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and in policy changes affecting international markets; and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission including, but not limited to, Teradyne's annual report on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2003 and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q including that for the quarter ended October 3, 2004. The "forward-looking statements" included herein are made only as of the date of publication and Teradyne undertakes no obligation to update the information set forth in this release.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR FOURTH FISCAL QUARTER OF 2004
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.
 


