FILE:TER/TER-8K-20050127175424.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On January 24, 2005, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") adopted resolutions (i) amending the Teradyne, Inc. 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan to provide for an increased annual stock option grant to a non-employee Chairman of the Board, and (ii) increasing the annual cash retainer paid to a non-employee Chairman of the Board. The increases were approved in recognition of the substantial time, effort, and responsibilities that are associated with the Chairman position. Currently, a non-employee director of the Company receives an annual payment of $45,000 and is granted an annual stock option to purchase 15,000 shares of the Company's common stock on the first Monday of February of each year. As a result of these changes, the Company's Chairman, currently George W. Chamillard, will receive an annual payment of $90,000 and will be granted an annual stock option to purchase 30,000 shares of the Company's common stock on the first Monday of February of each year.
(a)
 
On January 24, 2005, the Board approved the Variable Compensation Plan for 2005 (the "VC Plan"). Pursuant to the VC Plan, executive officers and certain eligible senior employees (collectively, the "VC Participants" and individually, the "VC Participant") who are integral to the success of the business may receive a variable compensation payment from the Company as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The amount of variable compensation each VC Participant receives, if any, is based on overall corporate and individual business group performance during the prior year, as determined by the Compensation Committee and is calculated as a percentage of the VC Participant's base annual salary (the "VC Factor"). The VC Factors for new VC Participants start at 10%. The VC Factors for VC Participants with greater levels of responsibility and experience may be up to 180% and could exceed 180% when reviewed at the Company's annual July salary review.
(b)
 
In evaluating the overall corporate and individual business group performance, the Compensation Committee considers various factors, including, but not limited to the following: (1) the extent to which quantitative and qualitative plans were met for the year, with an emphasis on profitability, return on net assets and market share; (2) the extent to which process improvement results were achieved; (3) the extent to which results verified each individual business group's strategy and improved its strategic position; and (4) the extent to which each individual business group's mid-term plan and strategy was credible and contributed to the Company's ability to adapt to changes in the marketplace or environment.
 
The Company's Board of Directors and/or Compensation Committee reserve the right to adjust, modify or terminate the VC Plan, in full or in part, at any time in their sole discretion.
 
The VC Plan became effective on the date of its approval by the Board of Directors, January 24, 2005. The above description of the VC Plan is not a complete description of all terms and conditions of the VC Plan and is subject to and qualified in its entirety by the VC Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
The Variable Compensation Plan ("VC Plan") provides a variable compensation payment to the Company's executive officers and certain eligible senior employees each January based on overall corporate and individual business group (Divisional) performance during the prior year, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. The amount of Variable Compensation each executive officer and senior employee receives is a function of four factors:
 
 
 
 
 
Each executive officer's and employee's "variable compensation factor" is a percentage of his or her base annual salary, starting at 10% for new participants. At greater levels of responsibility and experience, the variable compensation factor may be up to 180% of base annual salary. Variable compensation factors are reviewed each July as part of the Company's annual salary review and in connection with the review, could increase beyond 180%. A newly hired executive officer or employee, who is approved for eligibility under the VC Plan, will be eligible to receive a VC Plan payment for their first year of employment, pro-rated from the date of hire.
 
At year end, the Compensation Committee evaluates the Company's overall performance versus goals and each individual Division's performance versus goals, with emphasis on the vital goals. Given the dynamics of the business, the Company's VC Plan relies heavily on the Compensation Committee's evaluation and assessment of performance. Based on this evaluation, the Compensation Committee determines whether any variable compensation should be paid and, if so, the amount for distribution. The payments under the VC Plan will be made only after approval by the Compensation Committee.
 
The following factors are considered in evaluating both overall corporate and individual Divisional performance: (1) the extent to which quantitative and qualitative plans were met for the year, with an emphasis on profitability, return on net assets and market share; (2) the extent to which process improvement results were achieved; (3) the extent to which yearly results verified each Division's strategy and improved its strategic position; and (4) the extent to which each Division's yearly mid-term plan and strategy was credible and contributed to the Company's ability to adapt to changes in the marketplace or environment.
Administrative rules and procedures for the VC Plan are maintained, monitored and implemented by the Company's Human Resources department.
 
The Compensation Committee has the sole discretion to interpret and apply the terms of this VC Plan, including the determination of whether any particular employee will receive a payment, and the amount of any such payment. The Board of Directors and/or the Compensation Committee reserve the right to adjust, modify or terminate the VC Plan, in full or in part, at any time, in their sole discretion. Subject to an amendment to or termination of this VC Plan by the Compensation Committee or the Board of Directors, this VC Plan applies in 2005 and renews annually each year thereafter.


