FILE:TER/TER-8K-20050712161520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
TEXT:
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.05 Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities.
 
On July 12, 2005, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") initiated actions to reduce its workforce by notifying approximately 400 employees from the Semiconductor Test Division that their employment is being terminated as part of the Company's ongoing effort to lower expenses. The terminations are expected to be completed by fiscal year end 2005, and to result in total cash severance charges of approximately $12.7 million and $4.0 million, respectively for the third and fourth quarters, for a total cash severance charge of approximately $16.7 million for the second half of fiscal year 2005.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This Form 8-K contains statements regarding the work force reductions and total estimated severance charges which are "forward-looking statements" as defined under Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees but involve risks and uncertainties, both known and unknown, that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include, but are not limited to, difficulties by management in successfully implementing the reduction plan, unanticipated delays in the implementation of the reduction plan, unanticipated costs and expenses relating to the implementation of the reduction plan, declines in the Company's revenues and earnings, and reliability and quality issues and adverse changes in general economic or market conditions. Reference is made to the discussion of risk factors detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, Teradyne's annual report on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2004. The "forward-looking statements" included herein are made only as of the date of publication and Teradyne undertakes no obligation to update the information set forth in this Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


