FILE:TER/TER-8K-20051019095523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 18, 2005, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended October 2, 2005. The Company's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Teradyne Announces Third Quarter Results
 
BOSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)Oct. 18, 2005Teradyne, Inc. (NYSE: TER) reported sales of $386.7 million in the third quarter, up 21% compared to the second quarter, and an 11% sequential increase in orders to $387.9 million. The company had a net loss in the third quarter of $35.4 million or $0.18 per share. This loss included $52.8 million or $0.27 per share in charges, consisting of an inventory provision of $38.5 million in Semiconductor Test related to non-FLEX products, and net restructuring and other charges of $14.3 million. The net restructuring and other charges reflect progress towards the company's previously communicated plan of lowering its breakeven level. Excluding these charges, the company had pro forma net income per share of $0.09 in the third quarter. In the previous quarter, the company had a net loss of $45.5 million or $0.23 per share, which included $10.2 million or $0.05 per share in net restructuring and other charges.
 
"While total orders were up 11%, our semiconductor test orders grew 40% over the second quarter," said Michael Bradley, Teradyne president and CEO. "That increase was driven by an expansion of our FLEX System-On-a-Chip (SOC) family of testers across a broad range of device applications. FLEX also set another bookings record in the quarter. In the fourth quarter, we're projecting strong growth in our continuing operations of semiconductor test, assembly test, and broadband test. Our recent decision to divest our Connection Systems business will enable us to focus on and grow our core test businesses and stay more tightly connected to our customers."
 
On October 10, 2005, Teradyne announced it had signed an agreement, which is expected to close in the fourth quarter, to sell its Connection Systems division for $390 million in cash (subject to a post-closing net asset value adjustment). Provided that occurs, Connection Systems' fourth quarter financial results will be reported as discontinued operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Therefore, Connection Systems' revenue and expenses for the fourth quarter will not be included in the company's continuing operations.
 
The company's continuing operations guidance for the fourth quarter is for sales to be between $330 and $350 million, with net income per share from continuing operations of between $0.42 and $0.45. This includes $0.26 per share of income consisting of: a one-time tax benefit of $0.23 per share and a gain from the anticipated sale of a building of $0.05 per share; offset to a lesser extent by net restructuring and other charges of $0.02 per share. Excluding these items, the fourth quarter guidance for pro forma net income per share from continuing operations is expected to be between $0.16 and $0.21.
 
The tax benefit referred to above of $0.23 per share is a direct result of the anticipated gain on the sale of Connection Systems and a corresponding tax provision is included in discontinued operations in conformity with GAAP. Net income for the quarter, including results of continuing operations, discontinued operations, and gain on disposal of discontinued operations is expected to be between $0.96 and $1.01 per share.
 
To facilitate a better understanding of the fourth quarter guidance which excludes Connection Systems operations, there are four exhibits attached that disclose and reconcile GAAP to pro forma results for the three and nine months ended October 2, 2005 and give effect to the divestiture of Connection Systems as of the beginning of 2005.
 
Conference Call/Webcast
Teradyne will be conducting its conference call tomorrow, October 19, at 10:00 a.m. E.D.T. The call will be webcast at (click on "Investors"). A replay will be available via phone starting at noon E.D.T. and continuing through November 2. The replay may be accessed by calling 1-800-642-1687 in the US and Canada, or 706-645-9291 outside the US and Canada,
www.teradyne.com
and providing conference code 9838283, or by visiting and clicking on "Investors" for a link to the replay.
www.teradyne.com
 
Pro Forma Results and Guidance
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses pro forma or non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Teradyne reports pro forma results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. In addition, Teradyne also discloses pro forma or non-GAAP results of operations that give effect to the divestiture of Connection Systems as of January 1, 2005. Management believes these pro forma measures helps indicate underlying trends in Teradyne's business and in the immediate instance, illustrate the anticipated financial effect of the sale of the Connection Systems business and help facilitate a better understanding of the fourth quarter guidance, which excludes Connection Systems operations. Management also uses pro forma measures to plan and forecast future periods, and to establish operational goals. Accordingly, fourth quarter earnings guidance is disclosed on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, which excludes certain charges and anticipates the closing of the Connection Systems divestiture in the fourth quarter. A reconciliation of GAAP to pro forma financial information discussed in this press release is contained in the attached exhibits and on the company's website at by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Pro Forma Reconciliation" link.
www.teradyne.com
 
About Teradyne
 
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment and interconnection systems. The company's products deliver competitive advantage to the world's leading semiconductor, electronics, automotive and network systems companies. In 2004, Teradyne had sales of $1.8 billion, and currently employs about 5,500 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the US and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
www.teradyne.com
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication and Teradyne undertakes no obligation to update the information set forth in this release.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future revenues and earnings, future market conditions and business prospects. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees. You can generally identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of our future results will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: risks associated with the sale of Connection Systems (including our inability to successfully consummate the sale, operating difficulties resulting from such failure, which may lead to negative impact on the results of operations of Connection Systems and the company generally, and the material diversion of management's attention from day-to-day operations as a result of the sale process); adverse changes in general economic or market conditions (including market demand for electronics and downturns in the semiconductor industry); reductions or delays in capital investment by our customers; the decision by customers to cancel or defer orders that previously had been accepted; reduced bookings; the "hockey-stick" pattern of sales resulting in a disproportionately large percentage of total quarterly sales occurring in the last month and weeks of each quarter;
the historically cyclical nature and volatility of the markets that we serve; war or the threat of terrorist attacks; disruptions or delays in our supply chain; new product development introductions and transitions and any delays; uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings (including the timing, price and mix of new product acceptance); competitive pressures (including new products, pricing and gross margin pressures); the effectiveness of our implementation of cost cutting and expense control measures (including facility consolidations, employee reductions, the centralization of certain shared services, seeking lower prices from suppliers and the outsourcing of selected manufacturing and engineering activities); insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; disruptions, delays or shortages in an adequate supply of raw materials, components or internal and external manufacturing capability; incoming quality of components or raw materials; the impact of our ability to manage the effects of past or future acquisitions or divestitures; any material litigation against Teradyne; the increase in our debt service obligations and debt to capital ratio resulting from our $371.5 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding senior convertible notes; the availability of additional financing; our obligations in the event of a change of control; the impact of being required to account for stock options as an expense; the ability to attract and retain key employees; the risks of potential environmental liability; the risks of operating internationally (including political and economic instability and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and in policy changes affecting international markets), and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and our periodic reports on Forms 10-Q and
8-K.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR THIRD FISCAL QUARTER OF 2005
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's
homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.
GAAP to Pro Forma Earnings Guidance Reconciliation
 
Earnings guidance for the fourth quarter of 2005 is being provided on a GAAP and pro forma basis. Pro forma information is not determined using GAAP and should not be considered superior to or as a substitute for GAAP measures or data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
(1) Under GAAP, when calculating diluted earnings per share, convertible debentures must be assumed to have converted if the effect on EPS would be dilutive. For Teradyne, dilution occurs when earnings are greater than $0.24 per share per quarter. Accordingly, for GAAP net income from continuing operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2005, diluted shares assume the conversion of the convertible debentures as the effect would be dilutive. Diluted shares for the Pro Forma net income from continuing operations for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 does not assume the conversion of the convertible debentures, as the effect of the conversion on EPS would be anti-dilutive. Accordingly, 14.3 million shares have been included in diluted shares and net interest expense of $3.4 million has been added back to net income for the diluted earnings per share calculation.
 
(2) Restructuring and Other Charges, net consists of:
 
 
(3) Under GAAP, there will be a tax benefit recorded in continuing operations for a portion of the net operating loss carryforwards used as a result of the sale of TCS. There will be an offsetting tax provision included in the gain on sale of TCS included in discontinued operations.
GAAP to Pro Forma Statement of Operations Reconciliation
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), Teradyne also discloses pro forma or non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain charges. Teradyne reports pro forma results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Management believes the pro forma measure helps indicate underlying trends in Teradyne's business, and management uses pro forma measures to plan and forecast future periods and to establish operational goals.
 
Pro forma information is not determined using GAAP and should not be considered superior to or as a substitute for GAAP measures or data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
GAAP to Pro Forma ReconciliationConnection Systems Divestiture
 
The accompanying GAAP and pro forma statements of operations for the quarter and nine months ended October 2, 2005 reflect the disposition of Connection Systems ("TCS") as if it had occurred as of January 1, 2005. The pro forma adjustments are based on the operations of TCS during the periods presented, the impact from the sale of the TCS business and other transactions associated with the disposition. They have been made to illustrate the anticipated financial effect of the sale of the TCS business and are based on presently available information. Consequently, the pro forma financial information presented is not necessarily indicative of the results that would have been reported had the transaction actually occurred as of January 1, 2005.
 
 
 
 
 


