FILE:TER/TER-8K-20050330102907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
(d) On March 28, 2005, the Board of Directors of Teradyne, Inc. elected Paul J. Tufano as a Director, as announced in the Company's press release attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is furnished as a part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Paul J. Tufano Elected to Teradyne Board
 
BOSTON  (BUSINESS WIRE)  March 29, 2005  Teradyne (NYSE:TER) today announced the election of Paul J. Tufano to its Board of Directors, effective immediately. Mr. Tufano most recently served as the President, CEO and member of the Board of Directors for Maxtor Corporation. He left Maxtor in November 2004, after an eight year career with the company. Maxtor is an industry-leading provider of hard disk drives for a variety of applications, including desktop computers, servers, near-line storage systems and consumer electronics.
 
Prior to Maxtor, Mr. Tufano held a series of financial and general management positions at IBM. He holds a degree in Economics from St. John's University and an MBA from Columbia University.
 
"I'm very pleased by the addition of Paul Tufano to our Board of Directors," said George Chamillard, Teradyne's Chairman of the Board. "His broad experience in global technology end markets will be very helpful as we address our future growth opportunities."
 
About Teradyne
 
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment, and interconnection systems. The company's products deliver competitive advantage to the world's leading semiconductor, electronics, automotive and network systems companies. In 2004, Teradyne had sales of $1.8 billion, and currently employs about 5,900 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne(R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the US and other countries.
www.teradyne.com
 
Contact:
 
Teradyne, Inc.
Tom Newman, 617-422-2425
V.P., Corporate Relations


