FILE:TER/TER-8K-20060117205825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 17, 2006, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. The Company's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Teradyne Announces Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year Results
 
BOSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)Jan. 17, 2006Teradyne, Inc. reported sales of $345.2 million for the fourth quarter of 2005, an increase of 18% over the third quarter of 2005. Net income in the fourth quarter was $224.1 million, or $1.07 per diluted share. Net income from continuing operations was $89.6 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, and $50.0 million, or $0.25 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis. Bookings for the fourth quarter were $377.6 million, up 26% over the third quarter.
 
For fiscal 2005, sales were $1.08 billion. Net income for the year was $90.6 million, or $0.46 per diluted share. The company had a net loss from continuing operations of $60.5 million, or $0.31 per diluted share, and a net loss of $33.6 million, or $0.17 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis.
 
"The fourth quarter capped a year of significant improvement for Teradyne," said Michael Bradley, Teradyne president and CEO. "Throughout 2005, we had solid sequential growth in sales and bookings, strong fourth quarter profit performance in both our Semiconductor Test and non-Semiconductor Test businesses, and a much-improved balance sheet. Our FLEX (TM) System-On-a-Chip (SOC) tester led the way throughout the year.
 
"As we enter 2006, we have excellent product momentum across all our businesses, we have delivered on our 2005 breakeven reduction goals and we're designed into end products that have great potential."
 
Sales in the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be between $340 million and $360 million, with earnings per diluted share between $0.18 and $0.22, including $6.8 million, or $0.03 per share of stock-based compensation.
 
On November 30, 2005, Teradyne completed the sale of its Connection Systems division to Amphenol Corporation for $385 million in cash as adjusted post-closing and further subject to post-closing net asset value adjustments. Connection Systems' revenue and expenses are reported on a net basis in discontinued operations, and therefore have been excluded from continuing operations in all reported periods.
 
Non-GAAP Results
 
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Teradyne reports non-GAAP results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. Management believes the non-GAAP measures help indicate Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by Management to be outside the Company's ongoing operating results. The Company
believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of the Company's results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how the Company plans and measures its own business. A reconciliation of each GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached Exhibits and on the Company's website at www.teradyne.com by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
 
Conference Call/Webcast
 
A replay will be available approximately two hours after the completion of the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 1-800-642-1687. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 1-706-645-9291. The pass code is 3787254. A replay will also be available on the Teradyne website www.teradyne.com. Click on "Investors" for a link to the replay. The replay will be available via phone and website through February 1, 2006.
 
About Teradyne, Inc.
 
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2005, Teradyne had sales of $1.08 billion, and currently employs about 4,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.teradyne.com. Teradyne (R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication and Teradyne undertakes no obligation to update the information set forth in this release.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future revenues and earnings, future market conditions and business prospects. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees. You can generally identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of our future results will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: adverse changes in general economic or market conditions (including market demand for electronics and downturns in the semiconductor industry); reductions or delays in capital investment by our customers; the
decision by customers to cancel or defer orders that previously had been accepted; reduced bookings; the "hockey-stick" pattern of sales resulting in a disproportionately large percentage of total quarterly sales occurring in the last month and weeks of each quarter; the historically cyclical nature and volatility of the markets that we serve; war or the threat of terrorist attacks; disruptions or delays in our supply chain; new product development introductions and transitions and any delays; uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings (including the timing, price and mix of new product acceptance); competitive pressures (including new products, pricing and gross margin pressures); the effectiveness of our implementation of cost cutting and expense control measures (including facility consolidations, employee reductions, seeking lower prices from suppliers and the outsourcing of selected manufacturing and engineering activities); insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; disruptions, delays or shortages in an adequate supply of raw materials, components or internal and external manufacturing capability; incoming quality of components or raw materials; the impact of our ability to manage the effects of past or future acquisitions or divestitures; any material litigation against Teradyne; our obligations in the event of a change of control; the impact of being required to account for stock options as an expense; the ability to attract and retain key employees; the risks of potential environmental liability; the risks of operating internationally (including political and economic instability and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and in policy changes affecting international markets), and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004 and our periodic reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR FOURTH FISCAL QUARTER OF 2005
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
 
References by the Company to non-GAAP income from continuing operations and non-GAAP earnings per share refer to net income or earnings per share excluding restructuring and other charges, net, certain inventory provisions and the effect of one-time tax items. GAAP requires that these costs and charges be included in costs and expenses and accordingly is used to determine income from continuing operations and earnings per share. Non-GAAP net income from continuing operations (which is the basis for non-GAAP earnings per share) gives an indication of Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside the Company's ongoing operating results. The Company believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of the Company's results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how the Company plans and measures its own business. However, the presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information provided in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation, continued
 
 
 
Contact:    Teradyne, Inc.
 
Tom Newman, 617-422-2425


