FILE:TER/TER-8K-20060719184901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 19, 2006, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended July 2, 2006. The Company's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On July 17, 2006, Teradyne's Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program. Under the program, the Company may spend an aggregate of $400 million to repurchase shares of its common stock in open market purchases, in privately negotiated transactions or through other appropriate means over the next two (2) years. Shares are to be repurchased at the company's discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors. The Company's press release regarding this authorization is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Teradyne Announces Second Quarter 2006 Results and Authorization of Stock Repurchase Program
BOSTON(BUSINESS WIRE)July 19, 2006Teradyne, Inc. reported sales of $391.6 million for the second quarter of 2006. Net income in the quarter was $82.4 million, or $0.40 per share on a GAAP basis, and $63.3 million, or $0.31 per share on a non-GAAP basis. Bookings for the second quarter were $403.7 million, up 11% sequentially.
"We had an exceptional quarter, seeing very strong demand for our Semiconductor Test products with short lead times, and steady growth in our system level test businesses." said Mike Bradley, Teradyne president and CEO. "Once again, our FLEX System-On-Chip tester led the way with record orders. We also had our highest Semiconductor Test bookings in Japan and Korea, combined with much stronger subcontract test ordering."
Sales in the third quarter of 2006 are expected to be between $340 million and $370 million, with earnings per diluted share between $0.17 and $0.24.
In addition, Teradyne announced today that its Board of Directors authorized a Stock Repurchase Program. Under the Program, the company is permitted to spend an aggregate of $400 million to repurchase shares of its common stock in open market purchases, in privately negotiated transactions or through other appropriate means, over the next two years. Shares are to be repurchased at the company's discretion, subject to market conditions and other factors.
Non-GAAP Results
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Teradyne reports non-GAAP results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. Management believes the non-GAAP measures help indicate Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside Teradyne's ongoing operating results. Teradyne believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of its results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how Teradyne plans and measures its own business. A reconciliation of each GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached Exhibits and on the Teradyne website at by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
www.teradyne.com
Conference Call/Webcast
A conference call to discuss Second Quarter 2006 results, along with management's outlook, will follow at 10:00 a.m. EDT, Thursday, July 20, 2006. The call will be broadcast simultaneously over the Internet. Interested investors should access the webcast at and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins. A replay will be available approximately two hours after the completion of the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 1-800-642-1687. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 1-706-645-9291. The pass code for both numbers is 1810932. A replay will also be available on the Teradyne website . Click on "Investors" for a link to the replay. The replay will be available via phone and website through August 3, 2006.
www.teradyne.com
www.teradyne.com
About Teradyne, Inc.
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and
aerospace and defense industries. In 2005, Teradyne had sales of $1.08 billion, and currently employs about 4,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne (R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
www.teradyne.com
Safe Harbor Statement
The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication and Teradyne undertakes no obligation to update the information set forth in this release.
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future revenues and earnings, future market conditions and business prospects. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees. You can generally identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of our future results will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: adverse changes in general economic or market conditions (including market demand for electronics and downturns in the semiconductor industry); the historically cyclical nature and volatility of the markets that we serve; the "hockey-stick" pattern of sales resulting in a disproportionately large percentage of total quarterly sales occurring in the last month and weeks of each quarter; the decision by customers to cancel or defer orders that previously had been accepted; reduced bookings; reductions or delays in capital investment by our customers; competitive pressures (including pricing and gross margin pressures); the risks of operating internationally (including political and economic instability and unexpected changes in legal and regulatory requirements and in policy changes affecting international markets); disruptions, delays or shortages in an adequate supply of raw materials, components or internal and external manufacturing capability; disruptions or delays in our supply chain; incoming quality of components or raw materials; insufficient or excess inventory; the effectiveness of our implementation of cost cutting and expense control measures (including facility consolidations, the centralization of certain shared services, seeking lower prices from suppliers and the outsourcing of selected manufacturing, information technology and engineering activities); the risks of potential environmental liability; any material litigation against Teradyne; the ability to attract and retain key employees; war or the threat of terrorist attacks; and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 and our periodic reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR SECOND FISCAL QUARTER OF 2006
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
References by the Company to non-GAAP income from continuing operations and non-GAAP earnings per share refer to net income or earnings per share excluding restructuring and other charges, net, and certain inventory provisions. GAAP requires that these costs and charges be included in determining Net Income/(Loss) and Net Income/(Loss) per share. Non-GAAP net income from continuing operations (which is the basis for non-GAAP earnings per share) gives an indication of Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside the Company's ongoing operating results. The Company believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of the Company's results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and credits, through providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how the Company plans and measures its own business. However, the presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information provided in accordance with GAAP.
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.
 
 


