FILE:TER/TER-8K-20060531141803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Teradyne, Inc. 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") held on May 25, 2006 (the "2006 Annual Meeting"), the Company's shareholders approved the Teradyne, Inc. 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan as approved on May 25, 2006 will expire on May 24, 2016. The Plan replaces the Teradyne, Inc. 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, which expires in 2006; the Teradyne, Inc. 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan, which will expire in 2007; and the Teradyne, Inc. 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan which will expire in 2011 (collectively, the "Terminated Plans"). Beginning in 2007, the Plan will also replace the Variable Compensation Plan, the Company's cash compensation plan.
The purpose of the Plan is to motivate employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors of the Company and its subsidiaries by providing equity ownership and compensation opportunities in the Company. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or another committee designated by the Board of Directors (collectively with the Compensation Committee, the "Committee"), administers the Plan. All employees, officers, consultants and advisors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries and the Company's directors are eligible to participate in the Plan.
Types of Awards
The Plan authorizes the grant of cash and stock-based awards. Stock-based awards may take the form of (1) non-qualified and incentive stock options, (2) stock appreciation rights, (3) restricted stock awards and restricted stock unit awards, (4) phantom stock, and (5) other stock-based awards. Awards may be tied to time-based vesting schedules and/or performance-based vesting measured by reference to performance criteria chosen by the Committee. Participants in the Plan may satisfy the purchase or exercise price of stock-based awards in cash, common stock, a combination of cash and common stock, as the Committee may determine.
Generally.
Each non-employee director will receive automatic cash or stock-based awards having a fair market value equal to (1) 300% of his or her annual cash retainer (excluding separate committee chair retainers) on the date first elected to the Board and (2) 180% of his or her annual cash retainer (excluding separate committee chair retainers) on the first Monday in February in each year such director continues to be a non-employee director of the Company.
Non-Employee Director Formula Grants.
Cash awards can be granted alone, in addition to, or in tandem with stock-based awards. These awards may be based on a predetermined "variable compensation factor," that is reviewed annually, and on performance criteria as determined by the Committee. The variable compensation factor is a percentage of the Plan participant's base annual salary, starting at 10% for new participants and can increase up to 200% or beyond at the Committee's discretion. The Committee may not authorize a variable compensation payout based on performance criteria in excess of 200%.
Cash Awards.
Available Shares
The aggregate number of shares available under the Plan is 12,000,000 shares of the Company's common stock. Shares of common stock that were available for grant under the Terminated Plans as of May 25, 2006, are no longer available for grant under the Plan. The aggregate number of shares will not be reduced by shares granted by the Company in assumption of, or exchange for, awards granted by another company as a result of a merger or consolidation. The number of shares under the Plan may be adjusted for changes in the Company's capital structure, such as a stock split or merger.
Award Limits
The maximum number of shares of stock-based Awards that may be granted to any one participant during any one fiscal year is 2,000,000 shares of common stock.
Other Terms
Other than in limited circumstances, full-value stock-based awards are subject to a minimum vesting period of three years if such awards are time-based or one year if such awards are tied to performance criteria.
Vesting.
Except as the Committee may otherwise determine, awards may be transferred only by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, provided that nonstatutory stock options may be transferred to a grantor retained annuity trust or a similar estate planning vehicle.
Transferability.
In the event of a participant's disability, death, retirement, authorized leave of absence or other change in the employment or other status, the Committee will determine, subject to applicable law, the effect of such event on an award, and the extent to which and the period during which the participant, or the participant's legal representative, may exercise rights under the award. In connection therewith, the Committee is permitted to accelerate in full or in part any award that may be settled in cash, provided that with respect to restricted stock or restricted stock unit awards or other full-value stock-based awards, the Committee is permitted to accelerate such awards only in the event of the participant's disability, death, retirement or upon the acquisition of the Company by another entity.
Effect of Termination, Disability or Death.
The Committee may, without shareholder approval, amend, modify or terminate any outstanding award, except that: (1) the Committee may not materially and adversely change the terms of a participant's award without the participant's consent; (2) previously-issued options may not be amended without shareholder approval to reduce the price at which such previously issued options are exercisable or to extend the period of time beyond ten years for which such previously-issued option shall be exercisable; and (3) previously issued full-value stock-based awards may not be accelerated without shareholder approval other than in the event of death, disability or retirement of a participant or an acquisition of Teradyne.
Amendment of Awards.
It is the Company's intention that the entire amount of "qualified performance-based compensation" issued under the Plan in excess of $1,000,000 will be deductible under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). In addition, the Plan and every award made pursuant to the Plan will be construed, administered and enforced as necessary to comply with applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the related Treasury and IRS rulings and regulations so that no participant, without his or her express consent, incurs any additional tax or interest liabilities of Section 409A(a)(B) of the Code with respect to any award. The Plan provides that the provisions of the Plan and every award are modified and limited as necessary to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A.
Section 162(m) and Section 409A.
Treatment upon Acquisition
Unless otherwise provided in the award agreement, in the event the Company is acquired by another entity, appropriate provision will be made for the continuation or the assumption by the surviving or acquiring entity of all awards granted under the Plan. In place of or in addition to the foregoing, the Committee may provide that awards granted under the Plan must be exercised by a certain date or shall be terminated in exchange for a cash payment or for stock and stock-based awards issued by the acquiring entity. The Committee may also authorize the acceleration in full or in part of any then outstanding award.
Termination and Amendment of Plan
Awards may be granted under the Plan at any time on or prior to May 24, 2016, and awards granted before that date may be exercised thereafter. The Committee may at any time amend, suspend or terminate the Plan in whole or in part, provided that any material amendment to the Plan will not be effective unless approved by the Company's shareholders. Unissued shares covered by stock-based awards that have expired, terminated, surrendered or forfeited shall again be available for the grant of awards under the Plan.
Teradyne, Inc. Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors
At its meeting on May 24-25, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted an amendment and restatement of the Teradyne, Inc. Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Director Deferral Plan"). The Director Deferral Plan as amended and restated is intended to conform the terms of the plan originally adopted in 2001 (the "Prior Director Deferral Plan") to the requirements of the recently enacted Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued thereunder ("Section 409A") and to enlarge the elections provided under the Plan.
The purpose of the Director Deferral Plan is to permit non-employee directors to defer receipt of the compensation they would otherwise receive as members of the Board of Directors of the Company. Each non-employee director makes independent elections concerning the deferral of his or her compensation.
Under the Prior Director Deferral Plan each non-employee director could elect to defer all of his or her cash compensation from the Company. Any cash deferral was allocated, at the election of the director, either to a notional account, which is credited with interest at the 10-year Treasury Note rate, or allocated to a deferred stock unit account and treated as invested in common stock of the Company. On termination of the director's service with the Company, the entire deferred amount was distributed in cash or Company common stock to the director in a manner consistent with the director's elections.
Under the restated Director Deferral Plan, each non-employee director will have the opportunity to elect to defer all of his or her cash compensation and all of his or her compensation in the form of restricted stock or restricted stock units. The director will continue to have the choice of allocating the deferred cash to a notional account or to deferred stock unit account. Any restricted stock or restricted stock units which a director elects to defer shall also be converted into deferred stock units, which shall continue to be subject to the vesting provisions applicable to such compensation. Any Company common stock issued to directors as part of the distribution of deferred compensation shall be issued from either the 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan (for deferrals made prior to May 25, 2006) or the 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan (for deferrals made on or after May 25, 2006), depending on the director compensation to which the deferral relates. In addition, the restated Director Deferral Plan permits non-employee directors to elect to have any deferrals made after 2004 distributed in either installments (over up to 15 years) or in a lump sum after the director leaves the Board.
The restated Director Deferral Plan is unfunded and paid solely from the Company's general assets.
Please refer to the amended and restated Director Deferral Plan, which is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference, for the complete terms of the Plan.
Teradyne, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan
At its meeting on May 24-25, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted a Section 409A compliant version of the Teradyne, Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the "SERP") for benefits accrued and vested under the SERP after December 31, 2004. This SERP provides supplemental retirement benefits to employees, including executive officers, who are eligible for participation.
The purpose of the SERP is to provide the eligible executives with additional retirement benefits, taking into account the limitations imposed on the retirement benefits received by such employees under the Retirement Plan for Employees of Teradyne, Inc. (the "Retirement Plan") due to restrictions imposed by the Code.
Employees accruing benefits under the SERP include those who were active members of the SERP on December 31, 2004 and those who become members thereafter. An employee who elected to continue participation in the Retirement Plan in 1999 in connection with an election concerning participation offered to employees, and whose base salary plus target variable compensation payout under the Company's variable compensation plan exceeded the maximum amount of compensation taken into account under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code ("Section 401(a)(17) limits") may become a member upon notice of eligibility by the Company.
Employees who became members under the SERP prior to January 1, 2003 receive a retirement benefit in the form of a life annuity based on a percentage of their final average compensation multiplied by their credited service with the Company less their benefit under the Retirement Plan. Employees who become members on or after January 1, 2003 receive a retirement benefit in the form of a life annuity equal to 1.5% of the member's compensation in excess of the Section 401(a)(17) limits for each year with the Company (but only 1% for each year over 35).
In order to comply with Section 409A, the restated SERP provides that benefits will begin on the later of the employee's termination of employment or his or her social security retirement age. Benefits may be paid in different forms of life annuity elected by the employee.
The SERP is unfunded and paid solely from the Company's general assets.
Please refer to the amended and restated SERP, which is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference, for the complete terms of the SERP.
Teradyne, Inc. Supplemental Savings Plan
At its meeting on May 24-25, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Company adopted an amendment and restatement of the Teradyne, Inc. Supplemental Savings Plan (the "Supplemental Plan"). The Supplemental Plan permits eligible employees, including executive officers, to elect to defer a portion of their compensation and to receive certain Company matching contributions. The primary purpose of the restatement is to conform the terms of the Supplemental Plan to the requirements of Section 409A.
The Company may designate any highly compensated or managerial employees as eligible to make deferral elections under the Supplemental Plan. Prior to the beginning of each plan year, an eligible employee may elect to defer up to that percentage of his or her compensation which the Company establishes as the limit on deferral of compensation in each year. Compensation for purposes of this deferral is compensation as defined under the Teradyne, Inc. Savings Plan (the "Savings Plan") but without "VC Awards" (which are amounts of incentive remuneration payable under the Company's variable compensation plan) and only in excess of certain dollar amounts set by the Company each year. Any eligible employee may also defer up to 85% of his or her VC Awards in any year. In addition the Company will make certain matching contributions with respect to these deferrals.
Amounts deferred and the matching contributions are treated as invested in such investment choices as the plan administrator makes available. The matching contributions are subject to vesting over time. Amounts deferred after 2004 are paid either upon termination of employment or on a date selected by the participant at the time he or she makes the deferral election. All distributions are made in a single lump sum, in cash.
The Supplemental Plan is unfunded and paid solely from the Company's general assets.
Please refer to the amended and restated Supplemental Plan, which is filed as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference, for the complete terms of the Plan.
 
Concurrent with the adoption of the Plan described above in Item 1.01, the Company has terminated the following plans: the Teradyne, Inc. 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, the Teradyne, Inc. 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan, and the Teradyne, Inc. 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan, each as described in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005. As a result of this termination, no additional option grants or awards may be issued by the Company under these plans, while all options and awards currently outstanding under these plans will remain in effect.
 
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
1. Purpose and Eligibility.
The purpose of this 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan (the "") of Teradyne, Inc. is to provide equity ownership and compensation opportunities in the Company (each an "") to employees, officers, directors, consultants and advisors of the Company and its Subsidiaries, all of whom are eligible to receive Awards under the Plan.
Plan
Award
Any person to whom an Award has been granted under the Plan is called a "." Additional definitions are contained in Section 14(a).
Participant
2. Administration.
a. . The Plan will be administered by a committee (the "") composed solely of members of the Board of Directors of the Company that are "independent," as defined pursuant to Rule 10A-3(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and as prescribed under Rule 303A.02 of the New York Stock Exchange ("") Listed Company Manual, or any amendment, supplement or modification thereto;, that at any time and on any one or more occasions the Board may itself exercise any of the powers and responsibilities assigned the Committee under the Plan and when so acting shall have the benefit of all of the provisions of the Plan pertaining to the Committee's exercise of its authorities hereunder. The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the authority to grant Awards, to adopt, amend and repeal rules relating to the Plan, to interpret and correct the provisions of the Plan and any Award, and, subject to the limitations of the Plan, to modify and amend any Award. All decisions by the Committee shall be final and binding on all interested persons. Neither the Company nor any member of the Committee shall be liable for any action or determination relating to the Plan.
Administration by Committee of Independent Members of the Board of Directors
Committee
NYSE
provided, however
b. . To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Committee may delegate to one or more executive officers of the Company the power to grant Awards and exercise such other powers under the Plan as the Committee may determine; that the Committee shall fix the maximum number of Awards to be granted and the maximum number of shares issuable to any one Participant pursuant to Awards granted by such executive officer or officers. The Committee may, by a resolution adopted by the Committee, authorize one or more executive officers of the Company to do one or both of the following: (i) designate employees of the Company or of any of its subsidiaries to be recipients of Awards and (ii) determine the number, type and terms of such Awards to be received by such employees, subject to the limitations of the Plan;, that, in each case, the resolution so authorizing such officer or officers shall specify the maximum number and type of Awards such officer or officers may so award. The Committee may not authorize an officer to designate himself or herself as a recipient of any such Awards or to grant Awards to other executive officers of the Company.
Delegation to Executive Officers
provided, however,
provided, however
3. Stock Available for Awards.
a. . Subject to adjustment under Section 3(c), the aggregate number of shares (the "") of the Company's common stock, $0.125 par value per share (the ""), that
Number of Shares
Authorized Shares
Common Stock
 
may be issued pursuant to the Plan shall be 12,000,000 shares of Common Stock. If any Award expires, is terminated, surrendered, forfeited, expires unexercised, is settled in cash in lieu of Common Stock or is exchanged for other Awards, in whole or in part, the unissued Common Stock covered by such Award shall again be available for the grant of Awards under the Plan. Shares issued under the Plan may consist in whole or in part of authorized but unissued shares. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Plan, the foregoing limitations shall be subject to adjustment under Section 3(c), but only to the extent that such adjustment will not affect the status of any Award intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
b. . Subject to adjustment under Section 3(c), no Participant may be granted stock-based Awards during any one fiscal year to purchase more than 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock.
Per-Participant Limit
c. . In the event of any stock split, stock dividend, extraordinary cash dividend, recapitalization, reorganization, merger, consolidation, combination, exchange of shares, liquidation, spin-off, split-up, or other similar change in capitalization or event, (i) the number and class of securities available for Awards under the Plan and the per-Participant share limit, (ii) the number and class of securities, vesting schedule and exercise price per share subject to each outstanding stock-based Award, (iii) the repurchase price per security subject to repurchase, and (iv) the terms of each other outstanding stock-based Award shall be adjusted by the Company (or substituted Awards may be made) to the extent the Committee shall determine, in good faith, that such an adjustment (or substitution) is appropriate. If Section 11(f)(i) applies for any event, this Section 3(c) shall not be applicable.
Adjustment to Common Stock
d. . No fractional shares shall be issued under the Plan and the Participant shall, at the Committee's discretion, receive either cash in lieu of such fractional shares or a full share for each fractional share.
Fractional Shares
4. Stock Options.
a. . The Committee may grant options to purchase Common Stock (each, an "") and determine the terms and conditions of each Option, including, but not limited to (i) the number of shares subject to such Option or a formula for determining such, (ii) subject to Section 4(e) hereof, the exercise price of the Options and the means of payment for the shares, (iii) the Performance Criteria (as defined in Section 11(d)), if any, and level of achievement of such Performance Criteria that shall determine the number of shares or Options granted, issued, retainable and/or vested, (iv) the terms and conditions of the grant, issuance and/or forfeiture of the shares or Options, and (v) such further terms and conditions as may be determined from time to time by the Committee, in each case not inconsistent with this Plan.
General
Option
b. . An Option that the Committee intends to be an "incentive stock option" as defined in Section 422 of the Code (an "") shall be granted only to employees of the Company and shall be subject to and shall be construed consistently with the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. The Committee and the Company shall have no liability if an Option or any part thereof that is intended to be an Incentive Stock Option does not qualify as such.
Incentive Stock Options
Incentive Stock Option
c. . An Option or any part thereof that does not qualify as an Incentive Stock Option is referred to herein as a "."
Nonstatutory Stock Options
Nonstatutory Stock Option
d. . For so long as the Code shall so provide, Options granted to any employee under the Plan (and any other plans of the Company) which are intended to constitute Incentive Stock Options shall not constitute Incentive Stock Options to the extent that such Options, in the aggregate, become exercisable for the first time in any one calendar year for shares of Common Stock with an aggregate Fair Market Value (as defined in Section 14 and determined as of the respective date or dates of grant) of more than $100,000 (or such other limit as may be
Dollar Limitation
 
provided by the Code). To the extent that any such Incentive Stock Options exceed the $100,000 limitation (or such other limit as may be provided by the Code), such Options shall be Nonstatutory Stock Options.
e. . The Committee shall establish the exercise price (or determine the method by which the exercise price shall be established) at the time each Option is granted and specify the exercise price in the applicable Option agreement,, that the exercise price per share specified in the agreement relating to each Option granted under the Plan shall not be less than the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the date of such grant. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option to be granted to an employee owning stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company, the price per share specified in the agreement relating to such Incentive Stock Option shall not be less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value per share of Common Stock on the date of grant (or such other limit as may be provided by the Code). For purposes of determining stock ownership under this subsection, the rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall apply. Subject to Section 3(c), an Option may not be amended subsequent to its issuance to reduce the price at which it is exercisable unless such amendment is approved by the Company's shareholders.
Exercise Price
provided
f. . Each Option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms, conditions and expiration as the Committee may specify in the applicable Option agreement;, that no Option shall be exercisable for a period of time greater than ten (10) years from the date of grant of such Option;, that Incentive Stock Options granted to an employee owning stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company shall be exercisable for a maximum of five (5) years from the date of grant of such Option (or such other limit as may be provided by the Code). For purposes of determining stock ownership under this subsection, the rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall apply.
Duration of Options
provided
provided, further
g. . Subject to Section 11(f) and Section 11(j) and except as provided in Section 13, at the time of the grant of an Option, the Committee shall establish a vesting date or vesting dates with respect to the shares of Common Stock covered by such Options. The Committee may establish vesting dates based upon the passage of time and/or the satisfaction of Performance Criteria or other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Vesting of Options
h. . Options may be exercised only by delivery to the Company at its principal office address or to such transfer agent as the Company shall designate of a written notice of exercise specifying the number of shares as to which such Option is being exercised, signed by the proper person, or by notification of the Company-designated third party commercial provider (the ""), in accordance with the procedures approved by the Company and to which the holder of the Option shall have ongoing access by means of accessing such person's account maintained with the Third Party Commercial Provider, together with payment in full as specified in Section 4(i) for the number of shares for which the Option is exercised.
Exercise of Option
Third Party Commercial Provider
i. . Common Stock purchased upon the exercise of an Option shall be paid for by one or any combination of the following forms of payment:
Payment Upon Exercise
(i) in United States dollars in cash or by check payable to order of the Company or by funds transfer from the Option holder's account maintained with the Third Party Commercial Provider;
(ii) at the discretion of the Committee, through delivery of shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value equal as of the date of the exercise to the cash exercise price of the Option, that such shares were not acquired by the Participant in the prior six months;
provided,
(iii) at the discretion of the Committee and consistent with applicable law, through the delivery of an assignment to the Company of a sufficient amount of the proceeds from the sale of the Common Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option and an authorization to the Third Party Commercial Provider to pay that amount to the Company, which sale shall be at the Participant's direction at the time of exercise; or
 
(iv) at the discretion of the Committee, by any combination of (i), (ii), or (iii) above.
If the Committee exercises its discretion to permit payment of the exercise price of an Incentive Stock Option by means of the methods set forth in clauses (ii), (iii) or (iv) of the preceding sentence, such discretion shall be exercised in writing in the instrument evidencing the Award of the Incentive Stock Option.
j. . By accepting an Incentive Stock Option granted under the Plan, each optionee agrees to notify the Company in writing immediately after such optionee makes a disqualifying disposition of any stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of the Incentive Stock Options. A "disqualifying disposition" is generally any disposition occurring on or before the later of (a) the date two years following the date the Incentive Stock Option was granted or (b) the date one year following the date the Incentive Stock Option was exercised.
Notice to Company of Disqualifying Disposition
k. . Except as provided in Section 3(c) or as otherwise expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares subject to Options. No adjustments shall be made for dividends paid in cash or in property other than securities of the Company.
Issuances of Securities
5. Stock Appreciation Rights
a. . A Stock Appreciation Right (a "") is an Award entitling the holder, upon exercise, to receive an amount in cash or Common Stock, or a combination thereof (such form to be determined by the Committee), determined solely by reference to appreciation, from and after the date of grant, in the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock. The date as of which such appreciation or other measure is determined shall be the exercise date of the SAR Award.
General
SAR
b. . SARs may be granted in tandem with, or independently of, Options granted under the Plan.
Grants
(i) . When SARs are expressly granted in tandem with Options: (i) the SARs will be exercisable only at such time or times, and to the extent, that the related Option is exercisable, and will be exercisable in accordance with the procedure required for exercise of the related Option; (ii) the SARs will terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the termination or exercise of the related Option, except that a SAR granted with respect to less than the full number of shares covered by an Option will not be terminated until and only to the extent that the number of shares as to which the related Option has been exercised or has terminated exceeds the number of shares not covered by the SAR; (iii) the Option will terminate and no longer be exercisable upon the exercise of the related SAR; and (iv) the SAR will be transferable only with the related Option.
Tandem Awards
(ii) . A SAR not expressly granted in tandem with an Option will become exercisable at such time or times, and on such conditions, as the Committee may specify in the SAR Award.
Independent Stock Appreciation Rights
c. . The Committee shall determine all terms and conditions of a SAR Award, including, but not limited to (i) the number of shares subject to such SAR Award or a formula for determining such, (ii) the Performance Criteria, if any, and level of achievement of such Performance Criteria that shall determine the number of shares granted, issued, retainable and/or vested or the amount of cash payable, (iii) the terms and conditions on the grant, issuance and/or forfeiture of the shares, and (iv) such further terms and conditions as may be determined from time to time by the Committee, in each case not inconsistent with this Plan.
Terms and Conditions
d. . Subject to Section 11(f) and Section 11(j), at the time of the grant of a SAR Award, the Committee shall establish a vesting date or vesting dates with respect to such SAR Award, that SARs awarded in tandem with Options shall be subject to the same vesting date or vesting dates established by the Committee pursuant to Section 4(g) for such related Options and shall be exercisable only to the extent that such
Vesting of SAR Awards
provided
 
related Option shall then be exercisable. The Committee may establish vesting dates based upon the passage of time and/or the satisfaction of Performance Criteria or other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
6. Restricted Stock.
a. . The Committee may grant Awards entitling recipients to acquire shares of Common Stock, subject to (i) delivery to the Company by the Participant of cash, a check or other sufficient legal consideration in an amount at least equal to the par value of the shares purchased, (ii) the right of the Company to repurchase or reacquire all or part of such shares at their issue price or other stated or formula price from the Participant in the event that conditions specified by the Committee in the applicable Award are not satisfied prior to the end of the applicable restriction period or periods established by the Committee for such Award (each, a ""), and (iii) Section 6(b).
Grants
Restricted Stock Award
b. . A Participant that is the holder of a Restricted Stock Award, whether vested or unvested, shall be entitled to enjoy all shareholder rights with respect to the shares of Common Stock underlying such Restricted Stock Award, including the right to receive dividends and vote such shares. Subject to Section 6(c), the Committee shall determine all terms and conditions of any such Restricted Stock Award, including, but not limited to (i) the number of shares subject to such Restricted Stock Award or a formula for determining such, (ii) the purchase price of the shares, if any, and the means of payment for the shares, (iii) the Performance Criteria, if any, and level of achievement of such Performance Criteria that shall determine the number of shares granted, issued, retainable and/or vested, (iv) the terms and conditions on the grant, issuance and/or forfeiture of the shares, and (v) such further terms and conditions as may be determined from time to time by the Committee, in each case not inconsistent with this Plan. At the Committee's election, shares of Common Stock issued in respect of a Restricted Stock Award may be (i) held in book entry form subject to the Company's instructions until any restrictions relating to the Restricted Stock Award lapses, or (ii) evidenced by a stock certificate that may bear a legend indicating that the ownership of the shares of Common Stock represented by such certificate is subject to the restrictions, terms and conditions of this Plan and the Restricted Stock Award. Any stock certificates issued in respect of a Restricted Stock Award shall be registered in the name of the Participant. All certificates registered in the name of the Participant shall, unless otherwise determined by the Committee, be deposited by the Participant, together with a stock power endorsed in blank, with the Company (or its designee). After the expiration of the applicable restriction periods, the Company (or such designee) shall deliver the certificates no longer subject to such restrictions to the Participant or, if the Participant has died, to the beneficiary designated by the Participant, in a manner determined by the Committee, to receive amounts due or exercise rights of the Participant in the event of the Participant's death (the ""). In the absence of an effective designation by a Participant, Designated Beneficiary shall mean the Participant's estate.
Terms and Conditions
Designated Beneficiary
c. . Subject to Section 11(f) and Section 11(j), at the time of the grant of a Restricted Stock Award, the Committee shall establish a vesting date or vesting dates with respect to the shares of Common Stock covered by such Restricted Stock Award, which vesting dates may be based upon the passage of time and/or the satisfaction of Performance Criteria or other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee; , that all Restricted Stock Awards, other than Awards granted under Section 11(l), shall have a minimum vesting period of no less than one (1) year for Restricted Stock Awards granted subject to Performance Criteria and no less than three (3) years for all other Restricted Stock Awards.
Vesting of Restricted Stock
provided
7. Restricted Stock Unit.
a. . The Committee may grant Awards entitling recipients to acquire shares of Common Stock in the future, with the future delivery of the Common Stock subject to a risk of forfeiture or other restrictions that will lapse upon the satisfaction of one or more specified conditions (each, a "").
Grants
Restricted Stock Unit
b. . Subject to Section 7(c), the Committee shall determine all terms and conditions of any such Restricted Stock Unit, including, but not limited to (i) the number of shares subject to such Restricted
Terms and Conditions
 
Stock Unit or a formula for determining such, (ii) the purchase price of the shares, if any, and the means of payment for the shares, (iii) the Performance Criteria, if any, and level of achievement of such Performance Criteria that shall determine the number of shares granted, issued, retainable and/or vested, (iv) the terms and conditions on the grant, issuance and/or forfeiture of the shares, and (v) such further terms and conditions as may be determined from time to time by the Committee, in each case not inconsistent with this Plan. A Participant may not vote the shares represented by a Restricted Stock Unit. A Restricted Stock Unit may be settled in cash or Common Stock, as determined by the Committee, with the amount of the cash payment based on the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock at the time of vesting. Any such settlements may be subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall establish.
c. . Subject to Section 11(f) and Section 11(j), at the time of the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit, the Committee shall establish a vesting date or vesting dates with respect to the shares of Common Stock covered by such Restricted Stock Unit, which vesting dates may be based upon the passage of time and/or the satisfaction of Performance Criteria or other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee; , that all Awards of Restricted Stock Units, other than Awards granted under Section 11(l), shall have a minimum vesting period of no less than one (1) year for Restricted Stock Units granted subject to Performance Criteria and no less than three (3) years for all other Restricted Stock Units.
Vesting of Restricted Stock Unit
provided
8. Phantom Stock.
a. . The Committee may grant Awards entitling recipients to receive, in cash or shares, the Fair Market Value of shares of Common Stock ("") upon the satisfaction of one or more specified conditions.
General
Phantom Stock
b. . Subject to Section 8(c), the Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of a Phantom Stock Award, including, but not limited to (i) the number of shares subject to or represented by such Phantom Stock Award or a formula for determining such, (ii) the purchase price of the shares, if any, and the means of payment for the shares, (iii) the Performance Criteria, if any, and level of achievement of such Performance Criteria that shall determine the number of shares granted, issued, retainable and/or vested or the amount of cash payable, (iv) the terms and conditions on the grant, issuance and/or forfeiture of the shares or Phantom Stock Award, and (v) such further terms and conditions as may be determined from time to time by the Committee, in each case not inconsistent with this Plan. A Participant may not vote the shares represented by a Phantom Stock Award. Any settlements of Phantom Stock Awards may be subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall establish.
Terms and Conditions
c. . Subject to Section 11(f) and Section 11(j), at the time of the grant of a Phantom Stock Award, the Committee shall establish a vesting date or vesting dates with respect to such Phantom Stock Award. The Committee may establish vesting dates based upon the passage of time and/or the satisfaction of Performance Criteria or other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee.
Vesting of Phantom Stock
9. Other Stock-Based Awards.
The Committee shall have the right to grant other Awards based upon the Common Stock and having such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine, including, without limitation, the grant of shares based upon certain conditions and/or Performance Criteria, the grant of securities convertible into Common Stock and the grant of stock units. The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Awards, including, but not limited to (i) the number of shares subject to such Award or a formula for determining such, (ii) the purchase price of the shares, if any, and the means of payment for the shares, (iii) the Performance Criteria, if any, and level of achievement of such Performance Criteria that shall determine the number of shares granted, issued, retainable and/or vested, (iv) the terms and conditions on the grant, issuance and/or forfeiture of the shares or Award, and (v) such further terms and conditions as may be determined from time to time by the Committee, in each case not inconsistent with this Plan. Subject to Section 11(f) and Section 11(j), at the time of
 
the grant of an Award under this Section 9, the Committee shall establish a vesting date or vesting dates with respect to such Award, which vesting date may be based upon the passage of time and/or the satisfaction of Performance Criteria or other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee;, that all Full Value Awards granted under this Section 9, other than Full Value Awards granted under Section 11(l) herein, shall have a minimum vesting period of no less than one (1) year for Full Value Awards subject to Performance Criteria and no less than three (3) years for all other Full Value Awards granted hereunder.
provided
10. Cash Awards.
a. . The Committee may grant cash awards (each, a ""), either alone, in addition to, or in tandem with other Awards granted under the Plan.
Grants
Cash Award
b. . The Committee shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Cash Award. From time to time, the Committee shall establish administrative rules and procedures governing the administration of Cash Awards.
Terms and Conditions
c. . A Cash Award that the Committee intends to be a "" subject to Section 162(m) of the Code, provides a variable compensation payment each year to the Company's executive officers and certain eligible senior employees each year based on certain Performance Criteria that may include, among other criteria, overall corporate and/or individual business group's or division's performance during the prior fiscal year, as determined by the Committee. Variable Compensation Awards are calculated based on a percentage of the Participant's base annual salary ("") and start at 10% for new Participants. At greater levels of responsibility, the Variable Compensation Factor may be up to 200% of base annual salary. Variable Compensation Factors are reviewed annually, and in connection with the review, the Committee may increase the Variable Compensation Factor beyond 200%, but the Committee may not authorize a Variable Compensation payout based on Performance Criteria in excess of 200%. A newly hired executive officer or employee, who is approved for eligibility for Variable Compensation Awards, will be eligible to receive a Variable Compensation Award for their first year of employment, pro-rated from the date of hire. The Committee may rely upon the recommendation of the Company's senior management in granting Variable Compensation Awards to eligible Participants who do not constitute executive officers of the Company, including as to the amount and terms of any such Awards and the satisfaction of Performance Criteria.
Variable Compensation Awards
Variable Compensation Award
Variable Compensation Factor
11. General Provisions Applicable to Awards.
a. . Except as the Committee may otherwise determine or provide in an Award, Awards shall not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered by the person to whom they are granted, either voluntarily or by operation of law, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the life of the Participant, shall be exercisable only by the Participant,, that Nonstatutory Stock Options may be transferred to a grantor-retained annuity trust or a similar estate-planning vehicle in which the trust is bound by all provisions of the Option which are applicable to the Participant. References to a Participant, to the extent relevant in the context, shall include references to authorized transferees of such an Option.
Transferability of Awards
provided, however
b. . Each Award granted under the Plan, with the exception of Cash Awards, shall be evidenced by a written Award agreement in such form as the Committee shall from time to time approve. Award agreements shall comply with the terms and conditions of the Plan and may contain such other provisions not inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Plan as the Committee shall deem advisable. In the case of an Incentive Stock Option, the Award agreement shall contain, or refer to, such provisions relating to exercise and other matters as are required of "incentive stock options" under the Code. Award agreements may be evidenced by an electronic transmission (including an e-mail or reference to a website or other URL) sent to the Participant through the Company's normal process for communicating electronically with its employees. As a condition to receiving an Award, the Committee may require the Participant to affirmatively accept the Award and agree to
Documentation
 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Award agreement by physically and/or electronically executing the Award agreement or by otherwise physically and/or electronically acknowledging such acceptance and agreement. With or without such affirmative acceptance, however, the Committee may prescribe conditions (including the exercise or attempted exercise of any benefit conferred by the Award) under which the proposed Participant may be deemed to have accepted the Award and agreed to the terms and conditions set forth in the Award agreement.
c. . The terms of each type of Award need not be identical, and the Committee need not treat Participants uniformly.
Committee Discretion
d. . For purposes of this Plan, the term "" shall mean any one or more of the following performance criteria, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a division, business unit or Subsidiary, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee in the Award: cash flow; earnings per share; earnings before interest, taxes and amortization; return on equity; total shareholder return; share price performance; return on capital; return on assets or net assets; revenue; income or net income; operating income or net operating income; operating profit or net operating profit; operating margin or profit margin; return on operating revenue; return on invested capital; market segment share; product release schedules; new product innovation; product cost reduction; brand recognition/acceptance; product ship targets; process improvement results; verification of business strategy and/or business plan; improvement of strategic position; adaptation to changes in the marketplace or environment; or customer satisfaction. If the Award so provides, the Committee may appropriately evaluate achievement against Performance Criteria to take into account any of the following events that occurs during a performance period: asset write-downs; litigation or claim judgments or settlements; the effect of changes in tax law; accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs and any extraordinary non-recurring charges or other events. The Committee may prescribe the foregoing criteria either individually or in combination. The Committee's determination of the achievement of any Performance Criteria shall be conclusive. The minimum vesting period for all Full Value Awards granting shares of Common Stock subject to Performance Criteria, other than Full Value Awards granted under Section 11(l) herein, shall be no less than one (1) year.
Performance Criteria
Performance Criteria
e. . Except as otherwise specified herein, the Committee shall determine the effect on an Award of the disability, death, retirement, authorized leave of absence or other change in the employment or other status of a Participant and the extent to which, and the period during which, the Participant, or the Participant's legal representative, conservator, guardian or Designated Beneficiary, may exercise rights under the Award under such circumstances, subject to applicable law and the provisions of the Code.
Termination of Status
f. .
Acquisition or Liquidation of the Company
(i) . If the Company is to be consolidated with or acquired by another entity in a merger or other reorganization in which the holders of the outstanding voting stock of the Company immediately preceding the consummation of such event shall, immediately following such event, hold, as a group, less than a majority of the voting securities of the surviving or successor entity, or in the event of a sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets or otherwise (each, an ""), the Committee or the board of directors of any entity assuming the obligations of the Company hereunder (the ""), shall, as to outstanding Awards, either (A) make appropriate provision for the continuation of such Awards by substituting on an equitable basis for the shares then subject to such Awards either (1) the consideration payable with respect to the outstanding shares of Common Stock in connection with the Acquisition, (2) shares of stock of the surviving or successor corporation or (3) such other securities as the Committee or the Successor Committee deems appropriate, the Fair Market Value of which shall not materially exceed the Fair Market Value of the shares of Common Stock subject to such Awards immediately preceding the Acquisition; or (B) upon written notice to the Participants, provide that all Awards must be exercised, to the extent then exercisable or to be exercisable as a result of the Acquisition, within a specified number of days of the date of such notice, at the end of which period the Awards shall
Consequences of an Acquisition
Acquisition
Successor Committee
 
terminate; or (C) terminate all Awards in exchange for a cash payment equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of the shares subject to such Awards (to the extent then exercisable or to be exercisable as a result of the Acquisition) over the exercise price thereof, if any; or (D) in the case of Awards that may be settled in whole or in part in cash, provide for equitable treatment of such Awards.
(ii) . In connection with a merger or consolidation of an entity with the Company or the acquisition by the Company of property or stock of an entity, the Committee may grant Awards under the Plan in substitution for stock and stock-based awards issued by such entity or an affiliate thereof. The substitute Awards shall be granted on such terms and conditions as the Committee considers appropriate in the circumstances.
Substitution of Awards Upon Certain Events
(iii) . In the event of the proposed liquidation or dissolution of the Company, each Award, except for Cash Awards already earned, to the extent not then exercised or vested, will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action or at such other time and subject to such other conditions as shall be determined by the Committee.
Liquidation or Dissolution
g. . Each Participant shall pay to the Company, or make provisions satisfactory to the Company for payment, of any taxes required by law to be withheld in connection with Awards to such Participant no later than the date of the event creating the tax withholding obligation. The Committee may allow Participants to satisfy such tax withholding obligations in whole or in part by transferring shares of Common Stock, including shares retained from the Award creating the tax obligation, valued at their Fair Market Value. The Company may, to the extent permitted by law, deduct any such tax obligations from any payment of any kind otherwise due to a Participant.
Withholding
h. . The Committee may amend, modify or terminate any outstanding Award including, but not limited to, substituting therefor another Award of the same or a different type, changing the date of exercise or realization, the vesting provisions (subject to the minimum vesting requirements set forth herein), Performance Criteria, or level of achievement of Performance Criteria, and converting an Incentive Stock Option to a Nonstatutory Stock Option; except as otherwise provided in Section 11(f)(i), the Participant's consent to such action shall be required unless the Committee determines that the action, taking into account any related action, would not materially and adversely affect the Participant;, that subject to Section 3(c), an Option may not be amended subsequent to its issuance either to reduce the price at which such previously issued Option is exercisable or to extend the period of time for which such previously-issued Option shall be exercisable beyond ten (10) years unless such amendment is approved by the Company's shareholders. Furthermore, no Option shall be canceled and replaced with Options having a lower exercise price unless such cancellation and exchange is approved by the Company's shareholders.
Amendment of Awards
provided that,
provided, further
i. . The Company will not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Plan or to remove restrictions from shares previously delivered under the Plan until (i) all conditions of the Award have been met or removed to the satisfaction of the Company, (ii) in the opinion of the Company's counsel, all other legal matters in connection with the issuance and delivery of such shares have been satisfied, including any applicable securities laws and any applicable stock exchange or stock market rules and regulations, (iii) the Participant has executed and delivered to the Company such representations or agreements as the Company may consider appropriate to satisfy the requirements of any applicable laws, rules or regulations, and (iv) the Participant has paid to the Company, or made provisions satisfactory to the Company for payment of, any taxes required by law to be withheld in connection with the Award.
Conditions on Delivery of Stock
j. . The Committee may at any time provide (i) that any Option shall become immediately exercisable in full or in part, (ii) that Awards that may be settled in whole or in part in cash may become immediately exercisable in full or in part, and (iii) in connection with the disability, death or retirement of a Participant or in connection with an event contemplated by Section 11(f)(i), (A) that any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit shall become exercisable in full or in part or shall be free of some or all restrictions or the risk of forfeiture or (B) that any other Full Value Award shall become exercisable in full or in part or free of some or all restrictions or conditions, or otherwise realizable in full or in part, as the case may be. The Committee may take the
Acceleration
 
actions contemplated by the preceding sentence despite the fact that such actions may (x) cause the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code if an event contemplated by Section 11(f)(i) occurs, or (y) disqualify all or part of an Option as an Incentive Stock Option. In the event of the acceleration of the exercisability of one or more outstanding Options, including pursuant to Section 11(f)(i), the Committee may provide, as a condition of accelerated exercisability of any or all such Options, that the Common Stock or other substituted consideration, including cash, as to which exercisability has been accelerated shall be restricted and subject to forfeiture back to the Company at the election of the Company at the cost thereof upon termination of employment or other relationship, with the timing and other terms of the vesting of such restricted Common Stock or other consideration being not less favorable to the Participant than the timing and other terms of the superseded vesting schedule of the related Option.
k. . The Committee may, from time to time, upon obtaining shareholder approval therefor, undertake an exchange program under which employees deemed eligible by the Committee may elect to surrender for cancellation then existing Awards under the Plan or outstanding, unexercised options previously granted under the Company's 1991 Employee Stock Option Plan, 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan and 1996 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan, that have, at the time, an exercise price at or above a level determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee in exchange for cash and/or another Award under the Plan, the form of such consideration to be determined by the Committee.
Option or SAR Award Exchange
l. . The Committee may grant up to 5% of the maximum, aggregate shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance hereunder in the form of Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Units and other Awards based upon Common Stock that do not comply with the minimum vesting periods set forth in Sections 6(c), 7(c), 9 and 13.
Exception to Minimum Vesting Periods
m. . Any other provision of the Plan or any Award to the contrary notwithstanding, the Plan and every Award hereunder shall be construed, administered and enforced as necessary to comply with applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code and the Treasury and IRS rulings and regulations issued thereunder, so that no Participant shall (without such Participant's express written consent) incur any of the additional tax or interest liabilities of Section 409A(a)(B) of the Code with respect to any Award. The Plan and each Award are hereby modified and limited as necessary to comply with applicable requirements of Section 409A.
Compliance with Section 409A
12. Foreign Jurisdictions.
To the extent that the Committee determines that the material terms set by the Committee or imposed by the Plan preclude the achievement of the material purposes of the Plan in jurisdictions outside the United States, the Committee will have the authority and discretion to modify those terms and provide for such other terms and conditions as the Committee determines to be necessary, appropriate or desirable to accommodate differences in local law, policy or custom or to facilitate administration of the Plan. The Committee may adopt or approve sub-plans, appendices or supplements to, or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of, the Plan as it may consider necessary, appropriate or desirable for such purpose, without thereby affecting the terms of the Plan as in effect for any other purpose. The special terms and any appendices, supplements, amendments, restatements or alternative versions, however, shall not include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of the Plan as then in effect, unless the Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the shareholders. The Committee shall also have the authority and discretion to delegate the foregoing powers to appropriate officers of the Company.
13. Grant of Awards to Non-Employee Directors.
Each person who is a member of the Board of Directors and who is not an employee of the Company (each, a "") shall be automatically granted Awards having a Fair Market Value or exerciseable for shares having a Fair Market Value, as the case may be, on the day of such grant as follows:
Non-Employee Director
a. on the date such Non-Employee Director is first elected to the Board of Directors, equal to 300% of the annual cash retainer (excluding separate Committee Chair retainers) payable to such Non-Employee Director; and
 
b. on the first Monday in February in each year, equal to 180% of the annual cash retainer (excluding separate Committee Chair retainers) payable to such Non-Employee Director.
Awards granted under this Section 13 may be any of the following: Restricted Stock Units, Restricted Stock, Nonstatutory Stock Options, SARs, or cash, or a combination of the foregoing. Awards granted under the Plan shall be in addition to the annual Board and Committee cash retainers paid by the Company to the Non-Employee Directors. The type of Awards granted under this Section 13 shall be determined, in each instance, at the Committee's discretion (subject to the foregoing limitations). The number of shares, if any, covered by Awards granted under this Section 13 shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(c) of this Plan. Subject to Section 11(f) and Section 11(j), an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Section 13 shall have a minimum vesting period of no less than one (1) year for Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted subject to Performance Criteria and no less than three (3) years for all other Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted, unless such Award is granted under Section 11(l), and shall expire on the date which is ten (10) years after the date of grant of such Award. Any Options, SARs or other cash Awards granted pursuant to this Section 13 may, at the Committee's discretion, be immediately exercisable in their entirety on the date of grant.
14. Miscellaneous.
a. .
Definitions
(i) "" for purposes of eligibility under the Plan, shall include Teradyne, Inc. and any present or future subsidiary corporations of Teradyne, Inc., as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code (a ""), and any present or future parent corporation of Teradyne, Inc., as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code. For purposes of Awards other than Incentive Stock Options, the term "" shall include any other entity in which the Company has a direct or indirect significant interest, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
Company
Subsidiary
Company
(ii) "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
Code
(iii) "" for purposes of eligibility under the Plan shall include a person to whom an offer of employment has been extended by the Company and who has actually commenced employment with the Company, whether full or part-time status.
Employee
(iv) "" of the Company's Common Stock on any date means (i) the average (on that date) of the high, low and closing prices of the Common Stock on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is traded, if the Common Stock is then traded on a national securities exchange; or (ii) the last reported sale price (on that date) of the Common Stock on The NASDAQ National Market (the ""), if the Common Stock is not then traded on a national securities exchange; or (iii) the average of the closing bid and asked prices last quoted (on that date) by an established quotation service for over-the-counter securities, if the Common Stock is not then traded on a national securities exchange or reported on the Nasdaq; or (iv) if the Common Stock is not publicly traded, the fair market value of the Common Stock as determined by the Committee after taking into consideration all factors which it deems appropriate, including, without limitation, recent sale and offer prices of the Common Stock in private transactions negotiated at arm's length;, that, in all events the Fair Market Value shall represent the Committee's good faith determination of the fair market value of the Common Stock. The Committee's determination shall be conclusive as to the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock.
Fair Market Value
Nasdaq
provided
(v) "" means Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units and Awards other than (a) Options or (b) SARs or (c) Cash Awards or (d) other stock-based Awards for which the Participant pays the intrinsic value (whether directly or by forgoing a right to receive a cash payment from the Company).
Full Value Awards
b. . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in the case of Awards of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or Awards that are settled in whole or in part with shares of Common Stock, to the extent such Awards do not otherwise require the payment by the Participant of cash
Legal Consideration for Issuance of Shares
 
consideration that exceeds the par value of the shares of Common Stock received in connection therewith, the services rendered or to be rendered by the Participant shall satisfy the legal requirement of payment of par value for such shares of Common Stock.
c. . No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award, and the grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to continued employment or any other relationship with the Company. The Company expressly reserves the right at any time to dismiss or otherwise terminate its relationship with a Participant free from any liability or claim under the Plan.
No Right To Employment or Other Status
d. . Subject to the provisions of the applicable Award, no Participant or Designated Beneficiary shall have any rights as a shareholder with respect to any shares of Common Stock to be distributed with respect to an Award until becoming the record holder thereof.
No Rights As Shareholder
e. . The Plan shall become effective on the date on which it is approved by the shareholders of the Company (the ""). No Awards shall be granted under the Plan after the completion of ten (10) years from the Effective Date, but Awards previously granted may extend beyond that date.
Effective Date and Term of Plan
Effective Date
f. . The Committee may amend this Plan at any time, provided that any material amendment to the Plan will not be effective unless approved by the Company's shareholders. For this purpose, a material amendment is any amendment that would (i) other than pursuant to Section 3(c), materially increase either the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock available for issuance under the Plan; or the maximum number of shares of Common Stock issuable in one fiscal year to a Participant; (ii) expand or limit the class of persons eligible to receive Awards or otherwise participate in the Plan; (iii) subject to Section 3(c), reduce the price at which a previously-issued Option is exercisable or extend the period of time for which a previously-issued Option shall be exercisable beyond ten (10) years; (iv) subject to Section 11(f) and Section 11(j), amend the minimum vesting provisions of Full Value Awards; or (v) require shareholder approval pursuant to the requirements of the NYSE and/or any other exchange on which the Company is then listed or pursuant to applicable law.
Amendment of Plan
g. . The provisions of the Plan and all Awards made hereunder shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of The Commonwealth of Massachusetts, exclusive of reference to rules and principles of conflicts of law.
Governing Law
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
WHEREAS, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") has established the Teradyne, Inc. Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 2001, and amended as of March 1, 2003, (the "Prior Plan") which provides each Non-Employee Director of the Company with an election to defer receipt of his or her Compensation from the Company; and
WHEREAS, the Company wishes to amend and restate such Prior Plan to comply with Section 409A with respect to Compensation deferred after December 31, 2004 and expand the elections permitted under the Prior Plan.
NOW, THEREFORE, the Company hereby amends and restates the Prior Plan to read in its entirety as set forth below, as so amended and restated (the "Plan"). The Plan has been operated in compliance with Section 409A since January 1, 2005 with respect to amounts subject to Section 409A. This amendment and restatement is intended to memorialize any changes in operation of the Plan as of that date as required by Section 409A. All other changes are effective as otherwise provided herein.
1. .
Eligibility
Each person who is a Non-Employee Director on December 1, 2004 is eligible to participate in the Plan for the Plan Year beginning January 1, 2005. All other persons who are Non-Employee Directors on December 1 of any calendar year beginning in 2005 are eligible to participate in the Plan Year beginning the immediately following January 1. A Non-Employee Director who is eligible to participate may become a Participant by making a deferral election with respect to Compensation payable in the following Plan Year under Section 2. Eligibility to participate in the Plan for any Non-Employee Director automatically ends upon the termination of the individual's status as a member of the Board of Directors. If the Non-Employee Director becomes an Employee then any deferral election for Compensation payable in the Plan Year in which such employment commences shall remain in effect for the balance of the Plan Year but no further deferral elections may be made under the Plan.
2. .
Participation
A. Each Non-Employee Director who makes an election to defer the receipt of Compensation for any Plan Year must complete a Deferral Election Form, no later than the December 1 prior to the first day of the Plan Year with respect to which it is intended to be effective and deliver such completed form to the Company's HR director. A Deferral Election Form may be modified or withdrawn by the Participant prior to December 1 preceding the Plan Year to which it relates. The last completed form delivered to the HR director prior to or on
 
December 1 and not withdrawn as of that date, shall be considered the Deferral Election Form for the upcoming Plan Year and shall be irrevocable after such December 1.
B. Each Non-Employee Director who does not timely complete and deliver a Deferral Election Form for any Plan Year shall not defer receipt of any Compensation for such Plan Year and shall receive any and all Compensation to which he or she is entitled during such Plan Year in accordance with the Company's customary practices.
3. .
Elections
The Deferral Election Form for each Plan Year Deferral shall include the following elections:
A. An election to defer all the cash Compensation or, effective for Plan Years beginning January 1, 2007, all the Shares or both that are otherwise payable to the Non-Employee Director in the next Plan Year.
B. An election of the manner in which the cash portion of the Plan Year Deferral shall be allocated under the terms of Section 4(B)(1), as amended from time to time.
C. An election as to whether the Plan Year Deferral is payable, on distribution, in a lump sum or, effective for Plan Years beginning January 1, 2007, such number of annual installments (up to a maximum of 15) as the Non-Employee Director elects.
4. .
Accounting
A. The Company or its designee shall establish an account for each Participant for recordkeeping purposes only, including sufficient subaccounts to reflect all of Participant's elections in Section 3 for all such Participant's Plan Year Deferrals. The account and subaccounts are intended only for the purposes of determining the amounts to be distributed to the Participant under the Plan. Grandfathered Accounts shall be subject only to the terms of the Plan which were in effect under the Prior Plan, unless the Board elects at any time, to make them subject to the terms of the amended and restated Plan by a resolution to that effect.
B. The account and subaccount shall be adjusted as follows:
1. Cash deferred by any Participant will be allocated, in accordance with the Participant's election, to either (a) a notional account, or (b) a Deferred Stock Unit account ("DSU Account").
a. . Any amount which the Participant has allocated to a notional account, shall be credited with earnings, quarterly, at the rate in effect at the beginning of each Plan Year on 10 year Treasury Notes.
Notional Account
b. . Any amount which the Participant has allocated to the DSU Account will be converted into a number of Deferred Stock Units on the date the cash amounts deferred would have been paid to the Participant. The number of Deferred Stock Units credited to the Participant's DSU Account with respect to each cash deferral shall be determined by dividing the cash amount deferred by the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on such date. If any cash dividends are subsequently declared with respect to the Common Stock then the cash that would
DSU Account
 
have been paid to the Participant as dividends if he or she had owned the number of whole shares of Common Stock represented by the Deferred Stock Units shall, on the date such dividend is paid, be credited to the notional account of the Participant with respect to the Plan Year Deferral to which such Deferred Stock Units relate and shall thereafter be credited with earnings as provided in Section 4(B)(1)(a).
2. Any Shares deferred by the Participant shall be separately accounted for under this Section 4(B)(2), in a subaccount of the DSU Account. The number of Shares deferred shall also be converted into Deferred Stock Units, crediting the Participant with one Deferred Stock Unit for each Share deferred. Any Shares which are not vested at the time they are credited to the DSU Account shall be continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the applicable agreement evidencing the award of such Shares. Any cash dividends payable with respect to the deferred Shares shall be treated as specified in Section 4(B)(1)(b) and shall vest in accordance with the terms applicable to the Shares.
5. .
Voting and Dividend Rights in Deferred Stock Units
No Participant shall be entitled to any voting rights or to receive (except as provided in Section 4(B)) any dividends with respect to any amounts or Shares treated as converted into Deferred Stock Units.
6. .
Distributions
A. . Distributions of each Plan Year Deferral shall be made as a lump sum, or in installments, in accordance with the terms of the Deferral Election Form the Participant has completed with respect the Plan Year Deferral. A Participant shall become entitled to distributions following his or her separation from service as defined in Section 409A. Such distributions shall be made or commence within 90 days after the date of the Participant's separation from service, subject to the provisions of Section 6(F). If distributions are to be made in installments then each annual installment shall be made on or about the anniversary of the first installment distribution, except that if the first installment is delayed in accordance with Section 6(F), then each successive annual installment will be made on the 90
Generally
th
day following the anniversary of the Participant's separation from service.
B. . Any distributions of a Plan Year Deferral to be made in a lump sum shall consist of (i) cash, which is an amount equal to the aggregate balance in the Participant's notional account with respect to such Plan Year Deferral on the distribution date, and (ii) that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the aggregate number of vested Deferred Stock Units with respect to such Plan Year Deferral in the Participant's DSU Account on the distribution date. Any unvested Deferred Stock Units shall be forfeited upon the Participant's termination of service as a member of the Board of Directors. The cash and the shares of Common Stock may be distributed separately and at different times within the 90 day payment period.
Lump Sum
C. . Each installment distribution of any Plan Year Deferral shall consist of (i) such amount of cash as is determined by dividing the aggregate balance in the Participant's notional account with respect to such Plan Year Deferral on the date of such installment
Installments
 
distribution by the total number of remaining installment distributions elected by the Participant in his or her Deferral Election Form with respect to such Plan Year Deferral and (ii) that number of shares of Common Stock equal to the aggregate number of vested Deferred Stock Units in the Participant's DSU Account with respect to such Plan Year Deferral on the date of such installment distribution divided by the total number of remaining installment distributions elected by the Participant in his or her Deferral Election Form with respect to such Plan Year Deferral; provided that the number of shares of Common Stock distributed may be rounded up or down by one share for ease of administration.
D. . Amounts allocated to the notional account shall be distributed in cash and amounts allocated to DSU Account shall be distributed in shares of Common Stock. Shares of Common Stock distributed under the Plan shall be issued from either the 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan of the Company (the "2006 Compensation Plan") with respect to any Shares deferred subsequent to the adoption of the 2006 Compensation Plan by the Company's shareholders, or the Company's 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan with respect to any Shares deferred prior to the adoption of the 2006 Compensation Plan by the Company's shareholders. Distribution shall be made to the Participant, or if the Participant has died to the Participant's Beneficiary. The Company may distribute the value of any fractional Deferred Stock Unit in cash, based on the Fair Market Value on the date any shares of Common Stock are distributed.
Form of Distribution
E. . If the Participant dies prior to the total distribution of his or her account then the vested balance that is undistributed at the time of the Participant's death, notwithstanding any prior election by the Participant for installment distributions, shall be distributed to the Participant's Beneficiary, in a lump sum, within 90 days following the Participant's death.
Death
F. . If at the time of separation from service the Participant is considered a specified employee as defined in Section 409A then, notwithstanding the foregoing, the distribution of his or her account shall not be made, or commence, until six months and one day after such separation from service, but installments shall thereafter be distributed as if the initial installment had been made on the date of separation.
Specified Employee
G. . Notwithstanding the foregoing terms of the Plan, in accordance with Section 409A the Participants who have previously made a proper election to defer Compensation for 2005 or 2006 may designate, in such manner as the HR director determines, prior to December 31, 2006, whether such Plan Year Deferrals shall be distributed in a lump sum or in installments, and if in installments, the number of such installments.
Special 2006 Election
7. .
Amendments and Termination
The Board of Directors may amend or terminate the Plan at any time, which may include, without limitation, action to prohibit any future deferral under the Plan; provided that no such action shall decrease the value of the Participant's account with respect to Deferral Elections made prior to such termination or amendment and such amendment or termination shall be consistent with Section 409A.
 
8. .
Definitions
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
A. "Beneficiary" means the person designated or determined under Section 10(B).
B. "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of the Company.
C. "Committee" means the Compensation Committee, or any successor to such Compensation Committee, or any other Committee of the Board of Directors authorized by the Board of Directors to administer the Plan.
D. "Common Stock" means the common stock, $0.125 par value per share, of the Company.
E. "Compensation" means any meetings fees, retainer or other amounts, whether in cash or, effective January 1, 2007, in Shares, payable to the Non-Employee Director for services as such Non-Employee Director.
F. "Deferral Election Form" means the document or other communication by which the HR director has Non-Employee Directors elect to defer receipt of Compensation under the Plan.
G. "Deferred Stock Units", which are expressed as a number in the DSU account of a Participant refer to the number of shares of Common Stock that a Participant will become entitled to receive upon distribution of his or her Plan Year Deferrals in accordance with Section 6.
H. "Employee" means a common law employee of Teradyne, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries.
I. "Fair Market Value" of the Common Stock means, prior to June 1, 2006, the opening price for the date it is being determined, as officially quoted by the New York Stock Exchange. Effective June 1, 2006, Fair Market Value shall have the meaning set forth in the 2006 Compensation Plan.
J. "Grandfathered Accounts" mean those accounts for Participants which were established with respect to deferrals prior to December 31, 2004 which had not been distributed on such date.
K. "Non-Employee Director" means any person who is (i) a member of the Board of Directors but who is not an Employee of the Company, and (ii) is eligible to receive awards under the 2006 Compensation Plan (or, prior to its approval by the Company's shareholders, was eligible to receive awards under the Company's 1997 Employee Stock Option Plan).
L. "Participant" means a Non-Employee Director who is eligible to defer receipt of Compensation under Section 1 and who has delivered a completed Deferral Election Form in accordance with Section 2.
M. "Plan Year" means the calendar year. The first plan year of the Plan, as amended and restated, begins January 1, 2005.
 
N. "Plan Year Deferral" means cash or Shares deferred for any Plan Year in accordance with a Non-Employee Director's Deferral Election Form.
O. "Section 409A" means Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and guidance issued thereunder from time to time.
P. "Shares" means either Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted under the 2006 Compensation Plan of the Company.
9. .
Dilutions and Other Adjustments
In the event of any change in the outstanding shares of the Common Stock by reason of any stock dividend or split, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, reorganization, combination or exchange of shares or other similar corporate change, then if the Board of Directors or the Committee shall determine, in their sole discretion, that such change equitably requires an adjustment in the number or kind of shares then held in a Participant's DSU account, then such adjustments shall be made and such determination shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes.
10. .
Miscellaneous Provisions
A. The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have the exclusive right and full discretion to interpret the Plan and make all determinations necessary or advisable for its administration, including, without limitation, the authority to remedy ambiguities inconsistencies or omissions. All determinations by the Committee shall be final and binding on all persons. .
B. The Plan shall be an unfunded plan and a Participant's rights and interest under the Plan may not be anticipated, mortgaged, assigned or otherwise encumbered, transferred, or conveyed in advance of actual receipt and any attempt so to do shall be null and void. No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment be subject to seizure, attachment, garnishment or sequestration for the payment of any debts or judgments of any kind. Any amounts deferred under the Plan shall remain the assets of the Company until paid in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, and in the event of the Company's insolvency, will be subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors. In the event of the Company's insolvency, a Participant shall be a general creditor of the Company with respect to his or her claim for benefits hereunder.
C. Each Participant shall have the right to designate, from time to time, a beneficiary, primary as well as contingent, to receive benefits payable in accordance with the terms of the Plan. If the HR director has not received a completed beneficiary designation form during the Participant's life then the Participant's beneficiary under the Plan shall be his or her spouse, if any, and if none, his or her estate. The delivery of a completed beneficiary designation form to the HR Director shall replace any prior form.
D. The Company may establish one or more trusts pursuant to one or more trust agreements between the Company and a trustee named in such agreement, and as amended from time to time, on such terms as the Company shall determine (the "Trust"). The Company may transfer
 
assets to said Trust, as it determines in its sole discretion, for purposes of providing for the payment of its liabilities under the Plan. The provisions of the Plan shall govern the rights of a Participant to receive distributions pursuant to the Plan. The provisions of the Trust shall govern the rights of the Company, the Participants and any creditors of the Company to the assets of the Trust. To the extent any distributions are made from said Trust to any Participant for purposes of satisfying any obligation the Company may have under the Plan that distribution shall reduce the Company's obligation hereunder.
E. The Plan is intended to comply with Section 409A with respect to those accounts which are subject to its terms and to such extent shall be administered in accordance with its terms and that intention; provided that the Company shall have no obligation to any Participant or his or her Beneficiary if there is any failure to comply with Section 409A or with respect to any liability incurred by such Participant or any other person as a result of such failure.
F. The Plan is established and shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
G. The provisions of the Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Company and its successors and assigns, or any Participant and his or her beneficiaries.
H. Distributions hereunder shall be subject to any applicable tax withholding and the Company shall have the discretion to withhold cash for such purpose to the extent available to satisfy any withholding obligation with respect to any cash or Common Stock distributed under the Plan.
I. If any distribution is to be made to any person who is a minor or is declared incompetent or to a person the Board of Directors determines in good faith to be incapable of handling the disposition of such person's property (which the Board of Directors shall have no obligation to determine), the Board of Directors may direct payment to the guardian, legal representative or person having the care and custody of such person and such payment shall discharge the Company's obligations hereunder to the extent of such payment.
Approved by the Teradyne, Inc. Board of Directors May 24-25, 2006.
 

EXHIBIT 10.3
1.1 . Teradyne, Inc. and certain Affiliates (the "Employer") established a supplemental retirement plan known as the "TERADYNE, INC. SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN" (the "Prior Plan"), effective as of January 1, 1993 and thereafter amended from time to time. This restatement (the "Plan") has been operated in compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the guidance issued thereunder from time to time ("Section 409A") since January 1, 2005, with respect to amounts subject to Section 409A. This amendment and restatement is intended to memorialize any changes in operation of the Plan as of January 1, 2005 as required by Section 409A. All other changes are effective as otherwise provided herein. As such, the Plan is effective as of January 1, 2005 only with respect to benefits accrued or vested under its terms on or after January 1, 2005, and is intended to comply with Section 409A. The terms of the Prior Plan, as amended from time to time, remain applicable to Grandfathered Benefits. The terms of this Plan shall apply to the payment of any benefit distributed under its terms.
Establishment
1.2 . The provisions of this Plan are applicable only to Eligible Employees who were Members of the Prior Plan on December 31, 2004 and continue to be Eligible Employees of an Employer thereafter or who become Eligible Employees of the Plan after December 31, 2004.
Applicability
1.3 . The purpose of this Plan is to provide Members with retirement benefits they are unable to receive due to certain restrictions on the Retirement Plan imposed by Code Sections 401(a) (17) and 415 and to supplement the benefits payable to such Members from the Retirement Plan (in addition to those benefits accrued and vested under the Prior Plan). The Plan is intended to be unfunded and maintained primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees as described in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Purpose
1.4 . The invalidity of any particular provision of this Plan shall not affect the other provisions, and the Plan shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid provision were omitted.
Invalidity of Particular Provision
 
2.1 . Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have the respective meanings set forth below.
Definitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Compensation, but only to the extent it exceeds the limit under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code during such Plan Year.
 
 
 
 
 
No Employee shall be considered an Eligible Employee after October 29, 1999 if such Employee experiences a Break in Service under the Retirement Plan and any Retirement Benefits shall be based on the terms of this Plan (and the Prior Plan) prior to such Break in Service and such Member's service and compensation at that time.
 
 
scheduled for 20 or more hours of service per week taking into account Hours of Service as defined in the Retirement Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2.2 . Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine terminology used herein shall also include the feminine gender, the definition of any term herein in the singular shall also include the plural, and the definition of any term herein in the plural shall also include the singular.
Gender and Number
 
Each Eligible Employee who was a Member prior to January 1, 2005 shall continue to be a Member under this Plan as of that date. However, amounts accrued and vested for such Member within the meaning of Section 409A prior to January 1, 2005 shall be subject only to the terms of the Prior Plan and no additional benefits shall be accrued or vested under the Prior Plan after December 31, 2004. Amounts accrued or vested on or after January 1, 2005 within the meaning of Section 409A shall be subject to the terms of this restated Plan and Section 409A. Each other Employee who becomes an Eligible Employee on or after January 1, 2005 shall become a Member on the day after becoming an Eligible Employee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) is a straight life annuity form equal to the total of 1.5% of the Member's Compensation for each Plan Year beginning January 1, 2003 in which the Member participated in the Plan; provided that 1% shall be substituted for 1.5% for any Plan Year (or fraction thereof) in which the Member had completed more than 35 years of Credited Service; and
(2) is the Member's Accrued Benefit payable in a straight life annuity form under the Prior Plan with respect to amounts accrued and vested within the meaning of Section 409A prior to January 1, 2005.
 
 
 
 
provided that the Board of Directors or a Committee, in its sole discretion, may instruct the Plan Administrator to commence or advance such payments on an earlier date to satisfy an unforeseeable emergency as permitted and to the extent limited within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(ii) under Section 409A of the Code.
 
 
required by Section 409A(a)(2)(B) of the Code under Section 409A shall be accumulated and paid in a lump sum once benefits may commence, without interest, to the Member or his or her Beneficiary as the case may be.
4.3 . Benefits accrued or vested after December 31, 2004 shall be provided under this Section if the Member is married on the date of such Member's death and if such Member dies before Retirement Benefits commence under the Plan, and in accordance with Section 4.3(a) or (b).
Preretirement Death Benefit
 
 
 
 
 
 
Member is married on the date of death, then the Surviving Spouse shall be entitled to receive as a death benefit a monthly payment beginning during the month following the earlier of
 
 
and ending with the month in which the death of the Spouse occurs.
 
 
 
 
4.4 . Retirement Benefits under the Plan shall be paid as provided in this Section 4.4.
Form of Payment
 
 
 
 
 
time during the Member's life. In the absence of the designation of an alternate Beneficiary, the value of such payments shall be paid to the Member's Surviving Spouse, and if none, to the Member's estate. If the Member dies after this Option 1 has gone into effect, but has failed to designate a Beneficiary, the payments shall be made to the Member's Surviving Spouse, or if none, to the Member's estate.
 
 
 
 
Beneficiary under Option 1 dies at any time prior to the Member's death, the option shall remain effective and the Member may designate a new Beneficiary. In the event the Beneficiary under Option 1 dies after benefit payments have begun to the Member and the Member designates a new Beneficiary, the period of time over which the benefits are to be paid shall not be changed.
 
4.5 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the value of the Retirement Benefits payable under Section 4.1 or 4.3 is $5,000 or less when calculated as if payable in a lump sum, which is the Actuarial Equivalent of the Retirement Benefit, at the time of Separation from Service or death, as applicable, under the terms of the Plan, then on the Member's Separation from Service or death, the Plan Administrator shall direct that such lump sum be paid to the Member (or the Member's Beneficiary) within 90 days following such Separation from Service or death. Should a Member receive a benefit under this Section and be reemployed by an Employer, any Retirement Benefits payable under this Plan after his or her reemployment shall be reduced by the Actuarial Equivalent of the benefits such Member received under this Section.
Payment of Small Amounts
4.6 . Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, a Member who Separates from Service with the Employer prior to vesting under Section 5.1 shall not be entitled to any Retirement Benefits (or death benefits) under the Plan.
Separation from Service Prior to Vesting
 
4.7 . The Member shall forfeit any Retirement Benefits that would otherwise be payable under this Plan if he or she, for any reason whatsoever, directly or indirectly, accepts employment or renders services, with or without compensation, by or for any person, firm, or organization engaged in the sale, servicing, developing, manufacturing, or merchandising of products or services in competition with any product or service of the Company
Non-Competition
 
 
4.8 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment due under this Article IV, may be delayed in a manner that will not constitute a subsequent deferral under Section 409A and in such manner permitted by and subject to such conditions and limitations as imposed under Section 409A, including, without limitation, (a) if the Employer reasonably anticipates that its federal income tax deduction with respect to such payment will be limited or eliminated by application of Section 162(m) of the Code; provided that any payment so delayed will be paid at the earliest date at which the Employer reasonably anticipates that the federal income tax deduction will not be limited or eliminated by application of Section 162(m) of the Code, or the calendar year in which a Member has a Separator from Service, or (b) an Employer reasonably anticipates that the making of such payments will violate a term of a loan agreement to which the Employer is a party or other similar contract to which the Employer is a party, and such violation will cause material harm to the Employer; provided that such payments shall be made at the earliest date at which the Employer reasonably anticipates that the making of the
Delay of Payments
 
payment will not cause such violation or such violation will not cause material harm to the Employer; provided that the facts and circumstances indicate that the Employer entered into such loan agreement (including such covenant) or other similar contract for legitimate business reasons and not to avoid the restrictions on deferral elections and subsequent deferral elections of Section 409A, and (c) if the Employer reasonably anticipates the payments will violate federal securities law or other applicable law; provided that the payments delayed will be made at the earliest date at which the Employer reasonably anticipates that the making of such payments will not cause a violation.
 
5.1 . A Member shall have a nonforfeitable right to Retirement Benefits payable pursuant to Article IV upon the earliest to occur of the following:
Vesting
 
 
 
 
If the Member Separates from Service prior to having a nonforfeitable right under this Section 5.1 no Retirement Benefits will be paid hereunder.
5.2 . No Member or Surviving Spouse shall have any interest whatsoever in any specific asset of the Employer. To the extent any person acquires a right to receive payments under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Employer.
Unsecured Interest
5.3 . Nothing in this Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Employer to terminate any Member's employment at any time, nor confer upon any Member any right to continue in the employ of the Employer.
Employment
5.4 . Nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Plan shall create or be construed to create a fiduciary relationship between the Employer or the Plan Administrator and any Member or Surviving Spouse or any other person. Members and Surviving Spouses have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Employer. The Plan constitutes a mere promise by the Employer to make benefit payments in the future. Neither Members nor Surviving Spouses (nor any other person) shall have any claim
Member's Rights
 
to any specific assets of the Employer, including any assets transferred to any trust described in Section 6.5 and all such assets shall remain owned by the Employer at all times.
 
6.1 . The Plan will be administered by the Plan Administrator, which shall have the exclusive right and full discretion subject to the provisions of 409A
Administration
 
 
 
 
 
6.2 . The determination of the Plan Administrator as to any disputed questions arising under this Plan, including questions of fact and construction and interpretation of such facts and all applicable documents, shall be final, binding, and conclusive upon all persons.
Finality of Determination
6.3 . To the extent permitted by law, and without limiting the applicability of any other indemnification provided by the Employer, the Plan Administrator, and all agents and representatives of the Plan Administrator, shall be indemnified by the Employer against any claims, and the expenses of defending against such claims, resulting from any action
Indemnification
 
or conduct (or failure to act) relating to the administration of the Plan except claims arising from a finding of gross negligence, willful neglect, or willful misconduct.
6.4 . The cost of payment from this Plan and the expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Employer.
Expenses
6.5 . The Employer may pay benefits under this Plan from its general assets or it may establish a trust and transfer to that trust such assets as it determines to assist the Employer in payment of such benefits under this Plan. To the extent distributions from any trust are not sufficient to make any benefit payment, the balance of such payment shall be made by the Employer.
Financing
 
7.1 .
Claims Procedure
 
 
 
 
 
 
If special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, written notice of an extension shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the end of the initial period of 90 days following the date on which the claim is filed. Such an extension may not exceed a period of 90 days beyond the end of said initial period.
If the claim has not been granted, and if written notice of the denial of the claim is not furnished within 90 days following the date on which the claim is filed, the
 
claim shall be deemed denied for the purpose of proceeding to the claim review procedure.
 
Not later than 60 days after receipt of the request for review, the Plan Administrator shall render and furnish to the claimant a written decision, which shall include specific reasons for the decision, and shall make specific references to pertinent Prior Plan provisions on which it is based. If special circumstances require an extension of time for processing, the decision shall be rendered as soon as possible, but not later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review, provided that written notice and explanation of the delay are given to the claimant prior to commencement of the extension. Such decision by the Prior Plan Administrator shall not be subject to further review. If a decision on review is not furnished to a claimant within the specified time period, the claim shall be deemed to have been denied on review.
 
8.1 . The Employer expects the Plan to be permanent but since future conditions affecting the Employer cannot be anticipated or foreseen, the Employer necessarily must and does hereby reserve the right to amend, modify, or terminate the Plan (in all circumstances as permitted by Section 409A) at any time, by action of the Board of Directors or a Committee. Any such amendment, modification, or termination shall not reduce or diminish the value of the benefit to be paid hereunder prior to the date of such amendment. Distribution of all benefits on termination of the Plan shall be made in such manner permitted by and subject to such conditions and limitations as imposed by Section 409A including, without limitation, (a) a termination within 12 months of a corporate dissolution taxed under Section 331 of the Code or with the approval of a bankruptcy court pursuant to 11 U.S.C. 503(b)(1)(A), (b) a termination within 30 days preceding or 12 months following a change in control event as defined under Section 409A, and (c) a termination of the Plan if all similar arrangements sponsored by the Employer that would be aggregated with the Plan under Section 409A are terminated, subject in each event to compliance with all provisions of Section 409A with respect to such events of termination. Notice of such amendment or termination shall be given in writing to each Member and Beneficiary of a deceased Member having an interest in the Plan. The Employer may, at any time, provide for the cessation of the accrual of benefits under the Plan for some or all of the Members.
Amendment and Termination
8.2 . It is the intention of the Company and any other Employer that the terms of this Plan shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 409A including rights that are grandfathered and the administration and interpretation of this Plan shall be consistent with such intention; provided that the Company, any other Employer and the Plan Administrator or its
409A
 
agents shall have no obligation to any Member or any other person if there is any failure to comply with said Section 409A or with respect to any liability, including, without limitation, any liability for taxes, additional taxes or interest incurred by the Member or any other person as a result of such failure.
 
9.1 . In no event shall the Employer make any payment under this Plan to any assignee or creditor of a Member, a Surviving Spouse or a Beneficiary except to the extent consistent with any court order to make payments to someone other than a Member in connection with a domestic relations order as defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B). Prior to the time of payment hereunder, a Member, a Surviving Spouse or Beneficiary shall have no rights by way of anticipation or alienation nor shall such rights be assigned or transferred by operation of law.
Nontransferability
9.2 . The Employer shall have the right to deduct from all payments made from the Plan any applicable withholding required by law to be withheld with respect to such payments.
Withholding
9.3 . In addition to the provisions of Section 9.1, distribution may be made in such manner permitted by and subject to such conditions and limitations as imposed by Section 409A, including, without limitation, (i) to comply with a certificate of divestiture in accordance with Section 1043(b)(2) of the Code, (ii) to pay employment taxes under Sections 3101, 3121(a) and 3121(v)(2) of the Code on amounts accrued under this Plan, (iii) to pay income taxes under Section 3401 of the Code or corresponding state, local or foreign withholding rules as a result of the payments under (ii), (iv) to pay additional income tax on wages attributable to the pyramiding Section 3401 wages and taxes, and (v) to pay any amount due as a result of some being under this Plan being included in income as a result of a failure to comply with Section 409A.
Permitted Distributions
9.4 . This Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and to the extent not pre-exempted, the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Applicable Law
 
Approved by the Teradyne, Inc. Board of Directors May 24-25, 2006.
 

EXHIBIT 10.4
PURPOSE AND EFFECTIVE DATE
ARTICLE 1DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE 2PARTICIPATION
ARTICLE 3  PARTICIPANT ELECTIONS
 
ARTICLE 4  MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS
ARTICLE 5  PARTICIPANT ACCOUNTS
ARTICLE 6RIGHT TO BENEFITS
ARTICLE 7DISTRIBUTION OF BENEFITS
ARTICLE 8AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
ARTICLE 9THE TRUST
ARTICLE 10PLAN ADMINISTRATION
 
ARTICLE 11  MISCELLANEOUS
 
 
Teradyne, Inc. established the Teradyne, Inc. Supplemental Savings Plan (the "Plan") effective as of December 1, 1994 for the benefit of a select group of its highly paid employees. The Plan was subsequently amended by the First Amendment, which was generally effective as of January 1, 2002. The Plan has been operated in compliance with Code Section 409A since January 1, 2005 with respect to amounts subject to Code Section 409A. This amendment and restatement is intended to memorialize any changes in operation in the Plan as of January 1, 2005 as required by Code Section 409A. All other changes are effective as otherwise provided herein.
Teradyne, Inc. adopted this written amendment and restatement of the Plan on May 24-25, 2006 for elective and non-elective amounts deferred on or after January 1, 2005 and for amounts deferred before January 1, 2005 that were not both earned and vested on December 31, 2004. The Plan as amended and restated is intended to conform with the requirements of Code Section 409A and shall be administered in a manner consistent therewith. All amounts deferred under the Plan that are subject to Code Section 409A shall be separately accounted for and administered within each Participant's Account.
Amounts attributable to a Participant's vested account under the Plan on December 31, 2004 shall be separately accounted for in each Participant's Grandfathered Account. Elections made with respect to amounts credited to a Participant's Grandfathered Account and amounts payable from a Participant's Grandfathered Account shall be subject to the provisions of the Plan as in effect on December 31, 2004 and the law as in effect prior to Code Section 409A.
The purpose of the Plan is to permit eligible employees to elect to defer receipt of compensation otherwise payable currently and to enable the employer to credit eligible employees with matching contributions.
The Plan is intended to be a "plan which is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA and shall be administered in a manner consistent therewith.
Pronouns used in the Plan are in the masculine gender but include the feminine gender unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Wherever used herein, the following terms have the meanings set forth below, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A new deferral agreement must be timely executed for each Plan Year during which the Eligible Employee elects to defer compensation. An Eligible Employee who does not timely execute a deferral agreement shall be deemed to have elected zero deferrals for such Plan Year.
A deferral agreement may be changed or revoked at any time during the respective periods specified in Section 3.4. A deferral agreement becomes irrevocable at the close of the respective period and remains in effect throughout the applicable Plan Year even if the Eligible Employee transfers from one Employer to another Employer.
 
 
 
Except as otherwise provided below, an employee who is classified or designated as an Eligible Employee during a Plan Year may elect to defer
 
Compensation and/or VC Award otherwise payable during the remainder of such Plan Year in accordance with the rules of this Section 3.4 by executing a deferral agreement within the thirty (30) day beginning on the date the employee is classified or designated as an Eligible Employee. If a VC Award is based on a specific performance period that begins before the Eligible Employee executes his deferral agreement, the election will be deemed to apply to that portion of the VC Award equal to the total amount of the VC Award for the performance period multiplied by the ratio of the number of days remaining in the performance period after the election to the total number of days in the performance period. The rules of this paragraph shall not apply if the Eligible Employee has ever participated or is participating in a "plan" within the meaning of Prop. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(c) sponsored by the Employer.
 
The permissible distribution events are Separation from Service and a specified date that is at least five years after the first day of the Plan Year during which the related deferral agreement is effective. Payment will occur following the distribution event within the time period required by Code Section 409A and the regulations thereunder.
All distributions will be made in a single lump sum.
A Participant may make new distribution elections with respect to amounts subject to Code Section 409A if the elections are made no later than December 31, 2006, except that the Participant cannot in 2006 change distribution elections with respect to amounts that would otherwise have become payable in 2006 or cause payments to be made in 2006. The new distribution elections may apply to amounts deferred before the date of the election and can be made without regard to Code Sections 409A(a)(3) and (4) and any inconsistent provisions in the Plan to the contrary. A Participant who fails to make a new distribution election in accordance with this Section 3.6 with respect to an amount for which a valid election under Code Section 409A has not been made will be deemed to have elected a lump sum distribution upon his Separation from Service.
 
 
 
The amount of Matching Contributions credited to the Account of each eligible Participant shall be calculated separately with respect to his Compensation deferrals and separately with respect to his VC Award deferrals and shall equal the sum of the amounts so determined.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A copy of the death notice or other sufficient documentation must be filed with and approved by the Administrator. If upon the death of the Participant there is, in the opinion of the Administrator, no designated Beneficiary for part or all of the Participant's Account, such amount will be paid to his estate in a single lump sum payment (such estate shall be deemed to be the Beneficiary for purposes of the Plan).
The balance or remaining balance credited to a Participant's Grandfathered Account shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of the Plan as in effect on December 31, 2004.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
months of the termination of the arrangements, (d) the Plan Sponsor does not adopt a new arrangement that would be aggregated with any terminated arrangement under Prop. Reg. Section 1.409A-1(c) at any time within the five year period following the date of termination of the arrangement. The Plan Sponsor also reserves the right to terminate the Plan under such conditions and events as may be prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury in generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.
 
 
Whether a Change in Control has occurred will be determined by the Plan Sponsor in accordance with the rules and definitions set forth in this Section 8.5. A distribution to a Participant will be treated as occurring upon a Change in Control if the Plan Sponsor terminates the Plan and distributes the Participant's benefits within twelve months of a Change in Control as provided in Section 8.3.
 
 
 
Mutual and cooperative corporations are treated as having stock for purposes of this Section 8.5.
 
 
 
the relevant corporation identified in Section 8.5(a) for which no other corporation is a majority shareholder for purposes of Section 8.5(a). In the absence of an event described in Section 8.5(d)(i) or (ii), a change in the effective control of a corporation will not have occurred. A change in effective control may also occur in any transaction in which either of the two corporations involved in the transaction has a change in the ownership of such corporation as described in Section 8.5(c) or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of such corporation as described in Section 8.5(e). If any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, is considered to effectively control a corporation within the meaning of this Section 8.5(d), the acquisition of additional control of the corporation by the same person or persons is not considered to cause a change in the effective control of the corporation or to cause a change in the ownership of the corporation within the meaning of Section 8.5(c). For purposes of this Section 8.5(d), persons will or will not be considered to be acting as a group in accordance with rules similar to those set forth in Section 8.5(c) with the following exception. If a person, including an entity, owns stock in both corporations that enter into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or similar transaction, such shareholder is considered to be acting as a group with other shareholders in a corporation only with respect to the ownership in that corporation prior to the transaction giving rise to the change and not with respect to the ownership interest in the other corporation.
 
 
acting as a group, that owns, directly or indirectly, fifty percent (50%) or more of the total value or voting power of all the outstanding stock of the corporation, or (iv) an entity, at least fifty (50%) of the total value or voting power of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by a person described in Section 8.5(e)(iii). For purposes of the foregoing, and except as otherwise provided, a person's status is determined immediately after the transfer of assets.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions, (iii) a description of any additional material or information necessary for such person to perfect such claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary, and (iv) information as to the steps to be taken if the person wishes to submit a request for review. Such notification will be given within 90 days after the claim is received by the Administrator (or within 180 days, if special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, and if written notice of such extension and circumstances is given to such person within the initial 90-day period). If such notification is not given within such period, the claim will be considered denied as of the last day of such period and such person may request a review of his claim.
 
The Employer against whom the claim is brought shall bear all costs of an arbitration, except that the arbitrator shall have the power to apportion among the parties other expenses such as prehearing discovery, travel costs and attorney's fees. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on all parties and judgment on the arbitrator's award may be entered in any court of competent jurisdiction.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
any such payment to the extent thereof, shall discharge the liability of the Plan for the payment of benefits hereunder to such recipient.
 
 
 
 
 
relations order within the meaning of Code Section 414(p)(1)(B), (2) to comply with a certificate of divestiture as defined in Code Section 1043(b)(2), (3) to pay the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed under Code Sections 3101, 3121(a) and 3121(v)(2) on compensation deferred under the Plan, (4) to pay the income tax under Code Section 3401 or the corresponding withholding provisions of the applicable state, local or foreign tax laws as a result of the payment of any FICA tax described in (3) and to pay the additional income tax at source on wages attributable to the pyramiding Code Section 3401, wages and taxes, and (5) to pay the amount required to be included in gross income as a result of the failure of the Plan to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A. The total payment under (3) or (4) shall, in no event, exceed the aggregate of the FICA tax and the income tax withholding related to such FICA tax. The total payment under (5) shall, in no event, exceed the amount required to be included as a result of the failure to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A.
 
 
Approved by the Teradyne, Inc. Board of Directors May 24-25, 2006
 


