FILE:TER/TER-8K-20070125172417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(978) 370-2700
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Following approval by the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") on January 22, 2007, Teradyne and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (successor to Fleet National Bank), as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent") entered into an amendment, dated as of January 24, 2007, to that certain Rights Agreement dated as of November 17, 2000, by and between Teradyne and the Rights Agent. Pursuant to the amendment, the "Final Expiration Date" set forth in the Rights Agreement was changed from November 27, 2010 to February 8, 2007. Accordingly, the Rights Agreement and all rights thereunder will expire and terminate on February 8, 2007. A copy of the press release announcing the early termination of the Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The amendment to the Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 1.02.
 
The information set forth in Item 1.01 above is incorporated by reference into this Item 3.03.
 
(e)
Executive Compensation - 2007 Variable Compensation Factors
On January 22, 2007, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved the specific performance criteria and the variable compensation factors for variable compensation awards to be issued for the 2007 fiscal year pursuant to the 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan"). Under the 2006 Plan, variable compensation awards may be paid to Teradyne's executive officers and certain eligible senior employees each year based on certain performance criteria. Variable compensation awards are calculated based on a percentage of a participant's base annual salary (also called "Variable Compensation Factors"). Variable Compensation Factors start at 10% for new participants and may be up to 200% of base annual salary for participants with greater levels of responsibility. In determining the amount of variable compensation awards for the 2007 fiscal year, if any, payable to a participant the Compensation Committee will consider specific performance criteria, including, profitability, return on net assets, market share, revenue growth, quantitative vital goals, overall business strategy, strategic position and organizational capability.
 
(a) On January 22, 2007, the Board amended Teradyne's Amended and Restated By-Laws (the "Bylaws") to repeal the classified board provision contained therein and opt-out of Section 8.06(b) of Mass. Gen. Laws ch. 156D, effective as of immediately prior to the opening of the polls at the 2008 annual meeting of shareholders. As a result, the terms of all classes of the directors shall expire at the 2008 annual meeting. Upon election at that meeting and thereafter, each director will serve for a one year term. The Bylaws were amended to provide that each director shall hold office until the next
 
annual meeting of shareholders and until his or her successor is duly elected and qualified. Prior to this amendment, the Bylaws provided for a classified board with directors being elected for three-year terms. A copy of the press release announcing the amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the amendment to the Bylaws is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The exhibits listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index are hereby incorporated as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 3.1
This amendment to the Amended and Restated By-Laws ("By-Laws") of Teradyne, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the "Corporation"), is adopted by vote of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board") pursuant to a meeting of the Board dated January 22-23, 2007 and to be effective as of immediately prior to the opening of the polls at the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders (the "Effective Date").
1. The first paragraph of Article III, Section 2 of the By-Laws is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following as of the Effective Date:
"2. Nomination and Election. The Board of Directors shall consist of not less than three (3) nor more than fifteen (15) persons. The number of the Board of Directors for each year shall be fixed by vote of a majority of the Directors then in office. Until the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors shall be classified with respect to the time for which they severally hold office, as provided in Section 8.06 of Chapter 156D of the Massachusetts General Laws, into three classes, as nearly equal in number as possible, the term of office of those of the first class ("Class I Directors") to continue until the 1990 annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, the term of office of those of the second class ("Class II Directors") to continue until the 1991 annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualified, and the term of those of the third class ("Class III Directors") to continue until the 1992 annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The terms of all directors in office immediately prior to the opening of the polls for the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders shall expire at the time of the opening of the polls for the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders. At the 2008 annual meeting of stockholders and at each succeeding annual meeting of stockholders, each director shall be elected to hold office for a term continuing until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified."
2. Article III, Section 3 of the By-Laws is hereby amended to remove the following words: "of the class of Directors" as of the Effective Date.

Exhibit 4.1
This AMENDMENT, dated as of January 24, 2007 (the "Amendment"), amends the Rights Agreement, dated as of November 17, 2000 (the "Rights Agreement"), between Teradyne, Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (the "Company") and Computershare Trust Company, N.A. (as successor to Fleet National Bank), as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agent"). Capitalized terms not defined herein have the definitions assigned to them in Rights Agreement.
WHEREAS, under Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, the Company may from time to time supplement or amend the Rights Agreement without the approval of any holders of Rights Certificates in order to, among other things, change or adopt any provisions with respect to the Rights that the Company may deem necessary or desirable, any such supplement or amendment to be evidenced by a writing signed by the Company and the Rights Agent;
WHEREAS, the Company has determined, and has so directed the Rights Agent, to amend the Rights Agreement as set forth herein pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements set forth herein, and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. The definition of "Final Expiration Date" contained in Section 1 of the Rights Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following language:
2. Exhibits A and B to the Rights Agreement entitled "Form of Right Certificate" and "Summary of Rights to Purchase Common Shares," respectively, are hereby amended to replace the words "November 27, 2010" with the words "February 8, 2007" in all places where such words appear.
3. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such Commonwealth applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such Commonwealth.
4. All acts and things necessary to make this Amendment a valid agreement, enforceable according to its terms, have been done and performed, and the execution and
delivery of this Amendment by the Company and the Rights Agent have been in all respects duly authorized by the Company and the Rights Agent.
5. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
6. In all respects not inconsistent with the terms and provisions of this Amendment, the Rights Agreement is hereby ratified, adopted approved and confirmed. In executing and delivering this Amendment, the Rights Agent shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities afforded to the Rights Agent under the terms and conditions of the Rights Agreement.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and attested, as of the date first set forth above.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Teradyne Accelerates "Poison Pill" Expiration and Declassifies Board
NORTH READING, Mass.(BUSINESS WIRE)Teradyne, Inc. (NYSE:TER) announced today that its Board of Directors has voted to amend the company's Shareholders Rights (i.e. "Poison Pill") Agreement to accelerate the expiration of the Rights Plan from November 27, 2010 to February 8, 2007, at which time the Rights Plan will terminate.
The Board also voted to amend the company's bylaws to declassify the Board, so that all directors are elected annually, a change that will take effect at the company's 2008 Annual Shareholders Meeting.
"Shareholders' rights plans and director voting policies are important issues with investors today," said Michael Bradley, Teradyne's president and CEO. "We believe these changes to our Corporate Governance policies are consistent with current investor sentiment, as well as protective of shareholder interests."
About Teradyne, Inc.
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2005, Teradyne had sales of $1.08 billion, and currently employs about 3,800 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne (R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
www.teradyne.com
Contacts:
Teradyne, Inc.
Tom Newman, 978-370-2425
tom.newman@teradyne.com


