FILE:TER/TER-8K-20071017210439.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On October 17, 2007, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2007. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
The exhibit listed below and in the accompanying Exhibit Index is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Teradyne Reports Third Quarter, 2007 Results
NORTH READING, Mass.(BUSINESS WIRE)October 17, 2007 Teradyne, Inc. reported sales of $299 million in the third quarter of 2007. Net income was $41 million, or $0.22 per diluted share. Income from continuing operations in the quarter was $35 million, or $0.19 per diluted share on a GAAP basis, and $32 million, or $0.17 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis. Bookings for the third quarter were $273 million.
"We continue to make solid progress in new design wins, despite the third quarter decline in semiconductor test bookings," said Michael Bradley, Teradyne president and CEO. "Although tester utilization levels remained very high in the quarter, customers continue to be cautious about adding capacity in the short term."
Guidance for the fourth quarter of 2007 is for sales between $250 million and $275 million, with earnings between $0.04 and $0.10 per diluted share.
As of October 17, 2007, Teradyne completed its authorized stock repurchase program. Since the inception of the program in the third quarter of 2006, Teradyne has repurchased 27,947,230 shares at an average price of $14.31.
Webcast
A webcast to discuss third quarter 2007 results, along with management's outlook, will be held on Thursday, October 18, 2007 at 10 a.m. EDT. Interested investors should access the webcast at and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins. A replay will be available approximately two hours after the completion of the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 1-800-642-1687. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 1-706-645-9291. The pass code for both numbers is 20095692 A replay will also be available on the Teradyne Web site . Click on "Investors" for a link to the replay. The replay will be available via phone and through the Web site until November 1, 2007.
www.teradyne.com
.
www.teradyne.com
About Teradyne, Inc.
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2006, Teradyne had sales of $1.36 billion from continuing operations, and currently employs about 3,600 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne (R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries).
www.teradyne.com
Safe Harbor Statement
The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication and Teradyne undertakes no obligation to update the information set forth in this release.
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding expected future revenues and earnings, future market conditions and business prospects. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees. You can generally identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of our future results will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: adverse changes in
general economic or market conditions (including market demand for electronics and downturns in the semiconductor industry); the decision by customers to cancel or defer orders that previously had been accepted; reductions or delays in capital investment by our customers; competitive pressures (including pricing and gross margin pressures); the risks of operating internationally, disruptions, delays or an inadequate supply of raw materials, components or internal and external manufacturing capability; the operational effectiveness of our outsourced manufacturing activities, and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including, but not limited to, our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and; our periodic reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR THIRD FISCAL QUARTER OF 2007
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
The division's assets and liabilities have been included within discontinued operations.
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
References by the Company to non-GAAP income and non-GAAP income per share refer to income from continuing operations or income per common share from continuing operations excluding in-process research and development, restructuring and other, net, certain inventory provisions, certain other income and certain tax related items, as well as adjustments to profit sharing and taxes due to these exclusions. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining income from continuing operations. Non-GAAP income from continuing operations (which is the basis for non-GAAP income per share) gives an indication of Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside the Company's ongoing operating results. The Company believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of the Company's results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and credits, through providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how the Company plans and measures its own business. However, the presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information provided in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.
 


