FILE:TER/TER-8K-20080125163410.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On January 24, 2008, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") completed its acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of Nextest Systems Corporation ("Nextest"), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of December 11, 2007, among Teradyne, Nextest and NAC Equipment Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Teradyne.
The aggregate purchase price paid by Teradyne for this acquisition was approximately $325 million net of the cash acquired and including the fair value of fully vested employee equity instruments and transaction costs.
A copy of the press release announcing the completion of the acquisition is filed with this report as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
The financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date upon which this current report on Form 8-K must be filed.
 
The pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date upon which this current report on Form 8-K must be filed.
 
See the Exhibit Index attached to this report.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
North Reading, MA  January 24, 2008  Teradyne, Inc. (NYSE: TER) announced today that it has completed the merger of its direct wholly owned subsidiary into Nextest Systems Corporation and as result, Nextest has become a wholly owned subsidiary of Teradyne.
Nextest's common stock will no longer trade on NASDAQ. Detailed instructions will be mailed to former Nextest stockholders who did not tender their shares into the offer outlining the steps to be taken to obtain the merger consideration of $20.00 per share in cash, without interest.
About Teradyne, Inc.
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2007, Teradyne had sales of $1.1 billion and currently employs about 3,800 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne (R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries).
www.teradyne.com
About Nextest Systems Corp.
Nextest is a low-cost leader in the design and manufacture of Automatic Test Equipment (ATE) for flash memory and System-On-Chip semiconductors. Nextest's products address the growing demand from manufacturers for ATE with increased throughput, functionality and reliability, while reducing time to market and cost of test. Nextest has shipped over 1,900 systems to more than 70 semiconductor companies worldwide. Further information is available at .
www.nextest.com
Contact:
Teradyne, Inc.
Tom Newman, 978-370-2425
VP, Corporate Relations


