FILE:TER/TER-8K-20081023083628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 22, 2008, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended September 28, 2008. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Teradyne Announces Third Quarter, 2008 Results
NORTH READING, Mass.  (BUSINESS WIRE) Oct. 22, 2008
Teradyne, Inc. reported sales of $297 million in the third quarter of 2008. Income from continuing operations in the quarter was $15.1 million, or $0.09 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis, and the loss from continuing operations was $23.5 million or $0.14 per diluted share on a GAAP basis. Bookings for the third quarter were $198 million.
"The current economic unrest has rippled very quickly through the semiconductor sector, and is now affecting System-On-a-Chip test buying," said Mike Bradley, Teradyne president and CEO. "While Integrated Device Manufacturers' capital spending held up through the third quarter, our Outsourced Semiconductor Assembly and Test customers had a strong pull-back in capacity additions. We're not expecting any short-term rebound, so our fourth quarter guidance has been adjusted accordingly. In addition we're scaling back our spending in anticipation of this uncertain environment. Our priorities remain focused on customer support, new product development and continued improvement in our over-the-cycle financial performance."
Guidance for the fourth quarter of 2008, excluding the impact of the pending Eagle Test Systems acquisition, is for sales of $190 million to $220 million, with a loss per share between $0.07 and $0.18 on a non-GAAP basis. Non-GAAP guidance excludes restructuring and other charges, net, as well as acquired intangible asset amortization.
Webcast
A webcast to discuss third quarter 2008 results and management's business outlook will be held at 10 a.m. Eastern Time, Thursday, October 23. Interested investors should access the webcast at and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins. The webcast replay will be available on . In addition, a replay will be available within approximately 24 hours after the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 800-642-1687. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 706-645-9291. The pass code for both numbers is 68771031The replay will be available via phone and website through November 6.
www.teradyne.com
www.teradyne.com
.
Non-GAAP Results and Guidance
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain income items and charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Teradyne reports non-GAAP results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. Management believes the non-GAAP measures help indicate Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of our current core business or future outlook. Teradyne believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of its results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how Teradyne plans and measures its own business. Teradyne's earnings per share guidance is only provided on a non-GAAP basis due to the difficulty in forecasting and quantifying the amounts that would be required to be included in the GAAP measure for restructuring and other charges, net, as well as intangible asset amortization expense. A reconciliation of each available GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached exhibits and on the Teradyne website at by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
www.teradyne.com
About Teradyne, Inc.
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2007, Teradyne had sales of $1.1 billion and currently employs about 3,600 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
www.teradyne.com
Safe Harbor Statement
The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication. Teradyne disclaims any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
 
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding future business prospects and market conditions. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees. You can generally identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of our future results or other forward looking statements will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: conditions affecting the markets in which Teradyne operates including uncertainties related to the global economy in general; continued volatility and further deterioration in the financial markets, including uncertainties and disruptions in credit markets and the availability of credit; delays in new product introductions; decreased product demand; lack of customer acceptance of new products; the ability to realize synergies and cost savings from the integration of Nextest Systems Corporation and (once acquired) Eagle Test Systems with Teradyne's existing operations; the ability to consummate the planned acquisition of Eagle Test Systems, Inc. and other events, factors and risks previously and from time to time disclosed in filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, Teradyne's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR THIRD FISCAL QUARTER OF 2008
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
References by the Company to non-GAAP income and non-GAAP income per share refer to income from continuing operations or income per common share from continuing operations excluding in-process research and development, restructuring and other, net, certain inventory provision reversals and fair value inventory step-up related to Nextest, certain interest and other, net, and acquired intangible asset amortization, as well as applicable adjustments to profit sharing and income taxes due to these exclusions. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining income from continuing operations. Non-GAAP income from continuing operations (which is the basis for non-GAAP income per share) gives an indication of Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are may not be indicative of our current core business or future outlook. The Company believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of the Company's results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how the Company plans and measures its own business. However, the presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information provided in accordance with GAAP.
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.
Contacts: Teradyne, Inc.
                Tom Newman, 978-370-2425
                Vice President of Corporate Relations
 


