FILE:TER/TER-8K-20080124092537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On January 23, 2008, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(e)
Executive Compensation  2008 Variable Compensation Factors
On January 21-22, 2008, the Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors of Teradyne approved the specific performance criteria and the variable compensation factors for variable compensation awards to be issued for the 2008 fiscal year pursuant to the 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan"). Under the 2006 Plan, variable compensation awards may be paid to Teradyne's executive officers and certain eligible senior employees each year based on certain performance criteria. Variable compensation awards are calculated based on a percentage of a participant's base annual salary (also called "Variable Compensation Factors"). Variable Compensation Factors start at 5% for new participants and typically do not exceed 100%. In determining the payout amount of variable compensation awards for the 2008 fiscal year, the Compensation Committee will consider specific performance criteria, including, profitability, market share, new product goals, step function goals, key design-ins, other key milestones, growth, return on net assets, executable strategy and organizational capability.
 
On January 24, 2008, Teradyne issued a press release regarding the completion of its tender offer for Nextest Systems Corporation. Teradyne's press release is filed as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
Teradyne Announces Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year Results
NORTH READING, Mass.()January 23, 2008Teradyne, Inc. reported sales of $260.4 million for the fourth quarter of 2007. Net income in the fourth quarter was $16.7 million, or $0.10 per diluted share. Income from continuing operations was $17.2 million, or $0.10 per diluted share on a GAAP basis and $16.3 million, or $0.09 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis. Bookings for the fourth quarter were $282 million.
BUSINESS WIRE
For fiscal year 2007, sales were $1.1 billion. Net income for the year was $77.7 million, or $0.42 per diluted share. Income from continuing operations for the year was $71.9 million, or $0.39 per diluted share on a GAAP basis and $83.2 million, or $0.45 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis. Bookings for the year were $1.1 billion.
"Customers remained cautious in their System On Chip (SOC) test purchases throughout this past quarter," said Michael Bradley, Teradyne president and CEO. "But the interest in our pipeline of new products is gathering momentum as we enter 2008. Upon completing the acquisition of Nextest Systems Corporation, we expect that the Magnum product will provide a solid growth engine in the flash memory test sector and will complement our strong SOC test business."
Webcast
A webcast to discuss fourth quarter and fiscal year 2007 results, along with management's business outlook and the status of the pending tender offer for Nextest Systems Corporation, will be held at 10 a.m. EST, Thursday, January 24, 2008. Interested investors should access the webcast at and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins. The webcast replay will be available on . In addition, a conference call replay will be available approximately two hours after the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is . The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is . The pass code for both numbers is 30479782The replay will be available via phone and website through February 7, 2008.
www.teradyne.com
www.teradyne.com
800-642-1687
706-645-9291
.
Non-GAAP Results
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain income items and charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Teradyne reports non-GAAP results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. Management believes the non-GAAP measures help indicate Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by
management to be outside Teradyne's ongoing operating results. Teradyne believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of its results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how Teradyne plans and measures its own business. A reconciliation of each GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached Exhibits and on the Teradyne website at by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
www.teradyne.com
About Teradyne, Inc.
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2007, Teradyne had sales of $1.1 billion and currently employs about 3,600 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne (R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
www.teradyne.com
Safe Harbor Statement
The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication. Except as otherwise required by law, Teradyne disclaims any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of development occurring after the date of this press release.
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding future business prospects and market conditions and the proposed acquisition of Nextest Systems Corporation. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees. You can generally identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of our future results will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: conditions affecting the markets in which Teradyne or Nextest operates; delays in new product introductions; lack of customer acceptance of new products; the parties' ability to satisfy the tender offer and merger agreement conditions and consummate the transaction; Teradyne's ability to successfully integrate Nextest's operations with its existing operations; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; and other events, factors and risks
previously and from time to time disclosed in filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, Teradyne's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR FOURTH FISCAL QUARTER OF 2007
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
References by the Company to non-GAAP income and non-GAAP income per share refer to income from continuing operations or income per common share from continuing operations excluding in-process research and development, restructuring and other, net, certain inventory provisions, certain other income and certain tax related items, as well as adjustments to profit sharing and taxes due to these exclusions. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining income from continuing operations. Non-GAAP income from continuing operations (which is the basis for non-GAAP income per share) gives an indication of Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside the Company's ongoing operating results. The Company believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of the Company's results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and credits, through providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how the Company plans and measures its own business. However, the presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information provided in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the world wide web at http://www.teradyne.com.
 
Tom Newman, 978-370-2425

Exhibit 99.2
Teradyne Closes Tender Offer for Nextest Systems Corp.;
Acquires over 90% of NEXT Shares
North Reading, MA  January 24, 2008  Teradyne, Inc. (NYSE: TER) and Nextest Systems Corporation (NASDAQ: NEXT) jointly announced today the expiration, as of midnight, New York City time, on January 23, 2008, of the offering period in the tender offer made by NAC Equipment Corporation (NAC), Teradyne's direct wholly owned subsidiary, for all of the outstanding shares of Nextest Systems Corporation common stock.
According to the final report of the depositary for the offer, as of the expiration of the offering period, a total of approximately 17,624,392 shares of Nextest common stock had been validly tendered into the offer, including shares that were tendered through guaranteed delivery. Stockholders who validly tendered and did not withdraw their shares will promptly receive the offer price of $20.00 per share, net to the seller in cash without interest. As a result of these purchases in the tender offer, Teradyne, through NAC, now owns over 90% of the outstanding shares of Nextest common stock.
NAC will promptly acquire all of the remaining outstanding shares of Nextest common stock by means of a short-form merger under Delaware law. In the merger, NAC will merge with and into Nextest, and Nextest will become a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Teradyne. In the merger, each outstanding share of Nextest common stock will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive $20.00 per share, net to the seller in cash without interest. Following the merger, detailed instructions will be mailed to Nextest stockholders who did not tender in the offer outlining the steps to be taken to obtain the merger consideration.
About Teradyne, Inc.
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2007, Teradyne had sales of $1.1 billion and currently employs about 3,600 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.teradyne.com. Teradyne (R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries).
About Nextest Systems Corp.
Nextest is a low-cost leader in the design and manufacture of Automatic Test Equipment (ATE) for flash memory and System-On-Chip semiconductors. Nextest's products address the growing demand from manufacturers for ATE with increased throughput, functionality and reliability, while reducing time to market and cost of test. Nextest has shipped over 1,900 systems to more than 70 semiconductor companies worldwide. Further information is available at .
www.nextest.com
Contacts:
Teradyne, Inc.
Tom Newman, 978-370-2425
VP, Corporate Relations
or Nextest Systems Corp.:
GEM Agency
Connie Berar, 408-529-4694


