FILE:TER/TER-8K-20090130164301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On November 20, 2008, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Initial Form 8-K") reporting its acquisition of Eagle Test Systems, Inc. ("Eagle Test"). This Amendment No. 1 to the Initial Form 8-K amends and supplements the Initial Form 8-K to include financial statements and pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(a) and Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
The following unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements of Nextest Systems Corporation ("Nextest") are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1:
Nextest Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 29, 2007 and June 30, 2007 and for the three and six month periods ended December 29, 2007 and December 23, 2006.
The following audited consolidated financial statements of Eagle Test and the related report of its independent auditor is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and incorporated herein by reference:
Eagle Test Systems, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements as of September 30, 2008 and 2007 and for the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet of Teradyne as of September 28, 2008 and unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 and for the nine months ended September 28, 2008 and the notes to such unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-75632 and 333-47564) and Form S-8 (Nos. 333-155564; 333-149017; 333-143231; 333-134519; 333-116632; 333-101983; 333-73700; 333-68074; 333-56373; 333-32547; 333-26045; 333-07177; 033-55123; and 33-42352) of Teradyne, Inc. of our report dated December 8, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Eagle Test Systems, Inc. included in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Teradyne, Inc. dated November 14, 2008.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
January 30, 2009

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1The Company
Nextest Systems Corporation (the "Company") was incorporated in California in November 1997 and reincorporated in Delaware in March 2006. The Company is engaged in the design, development, manufacturing, sale and service of automatic test equipment ("ATE") for the semiconductor industry.
The Company's fiscal year is the 52 or 53 weeks ending on the last Saturday in June. Fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 are 52 and 53 week fiscal years, respectively. The periods for the three and six months ended December 29, 2007 and December 23, 2006 included 13 and 26 weeks, respectively.
Note 2Basis of Presentation
The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("US GAAP") have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The June 30, 2007 consolidated balance sheet was derived from audited financial statements, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. However, the Company believes that the disclosures are adequate to make the information presented not misleading. These condensed consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2007.
In the opinion of management, the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal and recurring adjustments necessary, including adjustments resulting from the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") Financial Interpretation 48, "Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties" ("FIN 48") as discussed in "Note 11Income Taxes", for a fair statement of financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods indicated.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with US GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities (including inventory valuation, accounts receivable valuation, accrued warranty, income taxes and estimated fair values of stock options) and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of net revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Note 3Recent Accounting Pronouncements
In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued FIN 48. FIN 48 defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by the taxing authority. FIN 48 provides guidance on the recognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FIN 48 also includes guidance concerning accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods
 
and increases the level of disclosures associated with any recorded income tax uncertainties. In May 2007, the FASB issued FASB Statement of Position FIN No. 48-1, Definition of "Settlement" in FASB Interpretation No. 48 ("FSP FIN No. 48-1"). FSP FIN No. 48-1 provides guidance on how a company should determine whether a tax position is effectively settled for the purpose of recognizing previously unrecognized tax benefits. The Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on July 1, 2007, the first day of its 2008 fiscal year. The effect of the adoption of FIN 48 on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet is summarized in "Note 11Income Taxes".
In September 2006, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157"), which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value, and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 are effective for the Company as of July 1, 2008.
In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141(R), "Business Combinations" ("SFAS No. 141(R)"). This Statement replaces FASB Statement No. 141, "Business Combinations." SFAS No. 141(R) establishes new principles and requirements for how an acquiring company 1) recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in the acquiree, 2) recognizes and measures the goodwill acquired in the business combination or a gain from a bargain purchase, and 3) determines what information to disclose to enable users of the financial statements to evaluate the nature and financial effects of the business combination. SFAS No. 141 (R) is effective for business combinations occurring on or after the beginning of the fiscal year beginning on or after December 15, 2008.
In February 2007, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities," ("SFAS No. 159"), including an amendment of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 ("SFAS No. 115"). SFAS No. 159 allows companies to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses shall be reported on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007.
In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 161, "Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS No. 161), an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133. "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities". SFAS No. 161 expands the current disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," such that entities must now provide enhanced disclosures on a quarterly basis regarding how and why the entity uses derivatives; how derivatives and related hedged items are accounted for under SFAS No. 133 and how derivatives and related hedged items affect the entity's financial position, performance and cash flow. SFAS No. 161 is effective prospectively for periods beginning on or after November 15, 2008.
In April 2008, the FASB issued Staff Position No.142-3 (FSP No. 142-3), "Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets". This FSP amends the guidance in FASB Statement No. 142 ,"Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", about estimating useful lives of recognized intangible assets and requires additional disclosures related to renewing or extending the terms of a recognized intangible asset. In estimating the useful life of a recognized intangible asset, the FSP requires companies to consider their historical experience in renewing or extending similar arrangements together with the asset's intended use, regardless of whether the arrangements have explicit renewal or extension provisions. The FSP is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008 and is to be applied prospectively to intangible assets acquired after the effective date.
Note 4Short-term Investments
The Company classifies marketable securities with remaining maturities at the time of purchase of greater than 90 days as short-term investments as these investments are deemed to be available for use in current operations as needed. Marketable securities consist of municipal debt and auction-rate securities that are classified as available-for-sale and are reported at fair value in accordance with SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities" with net unrealized gains and losses reported within stockholders' equity. Such unrealized gains and losses at December 29, 2007 and December 23, 2006 were immaterial. Realized gains or losses on the sale or maturity of securities are determined based on specific identification and are included in interest and other income, net in the condensed consolidated statement of operations. As of December 29, 2007, short-term investments consisted of auction rate and municipal debt securities which when purchased had contractual maturity dates of greater than 90 days.
 
Note 5Concentration of Credit Risk
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to a concentration of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and accounts receivable. The Company's cash equivalents and short-term investments are maintained with high-quality financial institutions. Deposits held with financial institutions may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. The Company's accounts receivable are derived from U.S. dollar denominated revenue earned from customers located primarily in North America, Europe and Asia. The Company performs on-going credit evaluations of its customers' financial condition. While the Company generally does not require collateral, in certain circumstances it may require a customer to provide an irrevocable letter of credit and/or a significant cash deposit prior to shipment. The Company assesses collectibility of its accounts receivable and provides a valuation allowance for its estimate of uncollectible amounts. The Company did not have significant provisions, write-offs or recoveries during the three months and six months ended December 29, 2007 or the three and six months ended December 23, 2006.
The following table sets forth sales to customers comprising 10% or more of the Company's net revenue for the periods indicated:
 
* Less than 10% of net revenue in the period.
The following table sets forth accounts receivable from customers comprising 10% or more of the Company's total accounts receivable balance at the period ends indicated:
 
* Less than 10% of total accounts receivable balance at period end.
Note 6Balance Sheet Components
 
 
Inventory provisions for the three months ended December 29, 2007 and December 23, 2006 were $1,617,000 and $215,000, respectively. The benefits resulting from sales of previously written-down inventory for the three months ended December 29, 2007 and December 23, 2006 were $403,000 and $315,000, respectively. Inventory provisions for the six months ended December 29, 2007 and December 23, 2006 were $2,066,000 and $459,000, respectively. The benefits resulting from sales of previously written-down inventory for the six months ended December 29, 2007 and December 23, 2006 were $648,000 and $354,000, respectively.
Note 7Net Income Per Share
Basic net income per share is computed by dividing the net income by the weighted-average common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted net income per share is computed giving effect to all potentially dilutive common stock, including stock options, restricted stock units and unvested restricted common shares subject to repurchase using the treasury stock method. Under the treasury stock method, the Company included the impact of assumed windfall tax benefits as part of the proceeds calculation related to options outstanding prior to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123 (R)").
The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted net income per share (in thousands, except per share data):
 
 
The following outstanding stock options, unvested restricted stock units, and unvested common shares subject to repurchase were excluded from the computation of diluted net income per share as they would have had an antidilutive effect (in thousands):
 
Note 8Stock-based Compensation
During the six months ended December 29, 2007, the Company granted stock options and restricted stock units to employees and non-employee directors. The total number of stock options granted was 20,000 at the weighted average grant date fair value of $8.05. The total number of restricted stock units granted was 23,500 at the weighted average grant date fair value of $12.50.
Note 9Segment and Geographic Information
The Company operates in one segment: designing, manufacturing and marketing of automated test equipment for the semiconductor industry.
The Company markets its products and related services to customers mainly through a direct sales force. Net revenue is attributed to geographic areas based on the country to which product is shipped or its first "in-use" country, if known. The Company's net revenue by geographic regions was (in thousands):
 
Over 90% of the Company's long-lived assets are located in the United States.
Note 10Commitments and Contingencies
Warranty
The Company generally warrants its products against defects, in material, workmanship and non-conformance to the Company's specification for a period of twelve months. The Company's warranty provision is based on the Company's best estimate, considering historical experiences with similar products as well as other assumptions that are considered reasonable under the circumstances. A provision for the estimated cost of warranty is recorded as a cost of revenue and is included in accrued liabilities when the related
 
revenue is recognized. Adjustments are made to such estimates based on actual settlements. Changes in the Company's warranty provision were as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Contingencies
The Company, as permitted under Delaware law and in accordance with its By-laws, has indemnification obligations to its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences, subject to certain limits, while they were serving at the Company's request in such capacity. The maximum amount of potential future indemnification is unlimited; however, there have been no claims to date, and the Company has a Director and Officer insurance policy that enables the directors and officers to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. As a result of the insurance policy coverage, the Company believes the fair value of these indemnification agreements is minimal.
The Company's sales agreements indemnify its customers for any expenses or liability resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks or copyrights of third parties. The terms of these indemnification agreements are generally perpetual any time after execution of the agreement. The maximum amount of potential future indemnification is unlimited. However, to date, the Company has not paid any claims or been required to defend any lawsuits with respect to any claim.
From time to time, the Company may have certain contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of its business activities. The Company accrues contingent liabilities when it is probable that future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be reasonably estimated. In the opinion of management, there are no pending claims of which the outcome is expected to result in a material adverse effect in the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.
Line of Credit
Since April 29, 2005, the Company has maintained a $10,000,000 maximum revolving credit facility based on certain qualifying accounts receivable with a financial institution that expires on July 28, 2008, bearing interest at the bank's prime rate per annum. The agreement, which is collateralized by the assets of the Company, contains a minimum net worth covenant and other restrictions. As of December 29, 2007, there have been no borrowings under the line of credit and the Company was in compliance with the covenant and other restrictions.
Lease Obligation
There were no significant changes to the Company's operating lease obligations during the three and six months ended December 29, 2007.
 
In October 2007, the Company completed the relocation of its corporate headquarters from 1901 Monterey Road, San Jose, California to 875 Embedded Way, San Jose, California. The Company constructed improvements at the building to prepare the leased premise for its intended use. Per the terms of the lease agreement, the landlord provided a tenant improvement allowance of up to $1.8 million of the construction costs. During the quarter ended September 29, 2007, the Company submitted to the landlord a claim for the total tenant improvement allowance of $1.8 million. This claim was paid on December 28, 2007. As of December 29, 2007, the Company has recorded a deferred rent balance of $1.7 million within other liabilities on its condensed consolidated balance sheet. In accordance with FASB Technical Bulletin No. 88-1, , the deferred rent balance will be amortized as a reduction to lease expense over the term of the lease.
Issues Relating to Accounting for Leases
Legal Proceedings
From time to time, the Company may be involved in litigation relating to claims arising out of day-to-day operations. As of December 29, 2007, the Company was not engaged in any legal proceedings that were expected, individually or in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.
Note 11Income Taxes
Effective July 1, 2007, the Company adopted the provisions of FIN 48. As a result of adopting FIN 48, the Company decreased its income taxes payable by $0.2 million with a corresponding increase to opening retained earnings as of July 1, 2007. The Company also reclassified $0.8 million from current to non-current income taxes payable and $0.4 million was reclassified from current taxes payable to reduce long-term deferred tax assets.
On July 1, 2007, the Company had $1.3 million of unrecognized tax benefits. If recognized, approximately $0.7 million, net of federal benefits, would be recorded as an income tax benefit on the Company's condensed consolidated statement of income. During the six months ended December 29, 2007, the Company recorded an increase of its unrecognized tax benefits of $0.1 million. The Company anticipates that its total unrecognized tax benefits may change by $0.3 million due to the expiration of statutes of limitations during the next 12 months.
After the adoption of FIN 48, the Company recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters as part of the income tax provision. Prior to the adoption of FIN 48, interest and penalties related to income taxes were included in interest and other income, net on the Company's consolidated income statement. Prior period financial statements were not restated to reflect the change in accounting policy. As of July 1, 2007, the Company had $0.1 million accrued for interest. As of December 29, 2007, the Company had $0.2 million accrued for interest. These accruals are included as components of non-current income taxes payable on the Company's condensed consolidated balance sheet.
The Company files income tax returns in the United States on a federal basis and in various U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions. The Company may be subject to the examination of its federal income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service for years 2001 and forward. For the Company's significant state tax jurisdictions, the Company is subject to routine examination for years 2001 and forward. In addition, any research and development credit carryforwards that were generated in prior years and utilized in these years may also be subject to examination by respective state taxing authorities. Generally, the Company is subject to routine examination for years 2005 and forward in various immaterial foreign tax jurisdictions in which it operates.
 
Note 12Subsequent Event
On January 24, 2008, Teradyne, Inc. acquired all of the outstanding shares of the Company. Under the terms of the merger agreement, the Company's stockholders received $20.00 per share in cash. In addition, the Company's outstanding stock options and restricted stock units were assumed by Teradyne, Inc. and were converted into stock options to purchase, and restricted stock units representing, Teradyne, Inc. common stock.
 

Exhibit 99.2
On November 14, 2008, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") completed its acquisition of Eagle Test Systems, Inc. ("Eagle Test"). Teradyne acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Eagle Test, at a price of $15.65 per share in cash. On January 24, 2008, Teradyne completed its acquisition of Nextest Systems Corporation ("Nextest"). Teradyne acquired all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Nextest, at a price of $20.00 per share in cash. For the purpose of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, the acquisitions are assumed to have occurred as of January 1, 2007 with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations and as of September 28, 2008, for the Eagle Test acquisition, with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet.
Teradyne, Eagle Test and Nextest have different fiscal year ends, which end on December 31, September 30 and the last Saturday in June, respectively. As a result, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 has been derived from:
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the nine months ended September 28, 2008 has been derived from:
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 28, 2008 has been derived from:
 
 
Because these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates of fair values attributable to the Eagle Test acquisition, the actual amounts recorded for the Eagle Test acquisition may differ materially from the information presented in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The total purchase price has been allocated on a preliminary basis to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on management's preliminary estimates of fair value, with the excess purchase price over net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired being allocated to goodwill. Definitive allocations will be performed and finalized. Teradyne expects to finalize the purchase price allocation in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the purchase allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and are subject to revision based on a final determination of fair value.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations do not reflect nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition transactions. The nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition transactions include in-process research and development, fair value of acquired inventory and investment advisory and legal costs.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial position of Teradyne that would have been reported had the acquisitions and cash payments been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future results of operations or financial position of Teradyne. This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The unaudited pro forma statements of operations do not reflect any operating efficiencies and cost savings that Teradyne may achieve with respect to the combined companies.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Teradyne, Eagle Test and Nextest included in their respective annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. BASIS OF PRO FORMA PRESENTATION
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are based on the historical financial statements of Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne"), Eagle Test Systems, Inc. ("Eagle Test") and Nextest Systems Corporation ("Nextest") after giving effect to Teradyne's acquisition of Eagle Test and Nextest and the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. Teradyne acquired all of the outstanding shares of Eagle Test on November 14, 2008. Teradyne acquired all of the outstanding shares of Nextest on January 24, 2008.
For the purpose of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, the acquisitions are assumed to have occurred as of January 1, 2007 with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations and as of September 28, 2008, for the Eagle Test acquisition, with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet.
Teradyne, Eagle Test and Nextest have different fiscal year ends, which end on December 31, September 30 and the last Saturday in June, respectively. As a result, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 has been derived from:
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the nine months ended September 28, 2008 has been derived from:
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 28, 2008 has been derived from:
 
 
Because these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates of fair values attributable to the Eagle Test acquisition, the actual amounts recorded for the Eagle Test acquisition may differ materially from the information presented in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The total purchase price has been allocated on a preliminary basis to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on management's preliminary estimates of fair value, with the excess purchase price over net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired being allocated to goodwill. Definitive allocations will be performed and finalized. Teradyne expects to finalize the purchase price allocation in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Accordingly, the purchase allocation pro forma
 
adjustments are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and are subject to revision based on a final determination of fair value.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations do not reflect nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition transactions. The nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition transactions include in-process research and development, fair value of acquired inventory and investment advisory and legal costs.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial position of Teradyne that would have been reported had the acquisitions and cash payments been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future results of operations or financial position of Teradyne. This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The unaudited pro forma statements of operations do not reflect any operating efficiencies and cost savings that Teradyne may achieve with respect to the combined companies.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Teradyne, Eagle Test and Nextest included in their respective annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
2. NEXTEST ACQUISITION
On January 24, 2008, Teradyne acquired all of the outstanding shares of Nextest, a publicly held company based in San Jose, California. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Nextest stockholders received $20.00 per share in cash for each Nextest share. In addition, outstanding Nextest stock options and restricted stock units were assumed by Teradyne and were converted into stock options to purchase, and restricted stock units representing, Teradyne common stock.
This acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination using purchase accounting. The total purchase price of $402.4 million was comprised of (in thousands):
 
Purchase Price Allocation
The allocation of the total purchase price to Nextest's net tangible and identifiable intangible assets was based on their estimated fair values as of January 24, 2008. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable intangible and net tangible assets was allocated to goodwill. The total purchase price of $402.4 million has been allocated as follows (in thousands):
 
 
Other intangible assets
Teradyne has estimated the fair value of other intangible assets using the income approach to value these identifiable intangible assets which are subject to amortization. Acquired intangible assets, other than goodwill, will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The following table sets forth the components of these other intangible assets and their estimated useful lives at January 24, 2008 (in thousands):
 
Tangible assets and liabilities
Tangible assets were recorded at their respective carrying amounts, which approximates fair value, except for inventory. Teradyne increased Nextest's historical net carrying amount of certain inventory by $4.3 million to reflect its fair market value. The property and equipment, net are recorded at the historical carrying value, which we believe approximates fair value.
Liabilities assumed have been recorded at their respective carrying amounts, which approximates fair value and the amount expected to be paid, except for deferred revenue and deferred rent. Deferred revenue and deferred rent were reduced by $7.4 million and $0.7 million, respectively, to reflect their fair values.
3. EAGLE TEST ACQUISITION
On November 14, 2008, Teradyne acquired all of the outstanding shares of Eagle Test, a publicly held company based in Buffalo Grove, Illinois. Under the terms of the merger agreement, Eagle Test stockholders received $15.65 per share in cash for each Eagle Test share. In addition, outstanding Eagle Test stock options were assumed by Teradyne and were converted into stock options to purchase Teradyne common stock.
This acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination using purchase accounting. The total purchase price of $374.4 million was comprised of (in thousands):
 
Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation
The preliminary allocation of the total Eagle Test purchase price to all tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was based on their estimated fair value as of November 14, 2008. Adjustments to these estimates will be included in the final allocation of the purchase price of Eagle Test, which changes could be material. The purchase price allocation is preliminary pending the final determination of the fair value of certain assumed assets and liabilities and the completion of facility exit and restructuring plans. Teradyne expects to finalize the purchase price allocation in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on these estimates. The excess of the
 
purchase price over the identifiable intangible and net tangible assets was allocated to goodwill. The total purchase price of $374.4 million has been allocated as follows (in thousands):
 
Other intangible assets
Teradyne has estimated the fair value of other intangible assets using the income approach to value these identifiable intangible assets which are subject to amortization. These estimates are based on a preliminary valuation and are subject to change, which changes could be material. Acquired intangible assets, other than goodwill, will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The following table sets forth the components of these other intangible assets and their estimated useful lives at November 14, 2008 (in thousands):
 
Tangible assets and liabilities
Tangible assets were recorded at their respective carrying amounts, which approximates fair value, except for inventory and property and equipment. Teradyne increased Eagle Test's historical net carrying amount of certain inventory by $14.7 million in the pro forma condensed combined balance sheet to reflect its estimated fair value. Property and equipment are recorded at fair value.
Liabilities assumed have been recorded at their respective carrying amounts, which approximates fair value and the amount expected to be paid, except for deferred revenue. Deferred revenue has been reduced by $3.4 million in the pro forma condensed combined balance sheet to reflect its estimated fair value of $1.0 million.
4. HISTORICAL INFORMATION
Nextest's unaudited historical financial statements for the period December 30, 2007 to January 24, 2008 and the four fiscal quarters ended December 29, 2007 are derived from Nextest's historical financial statements. Nextest's fiscal year ends on the last Saturday in June; and its historical results have been aligned to more closely conform to Teradyne's December 31 fiscal year by adding the six-month period ended December 31, 2007 to its fiscal 2007 financial statements and deducting the six-month period ended December 23, 2006 therefrom.
Eagle Test's historical financial statements as of September 30, 2008, for the three fiscal quarters ended September 30, 2008 and for the four fiscal quarters ended December 31, 2007 are derived from Eagle Test's historical financial statements. Eagle Test's fiscal
 
year ends on September 30; and its historical results have been aligned to more closely conform to Teradyne's December 31 fiscal year end by adding the three-month period ended December 31, 2007 to its fiscal 2007 statements and deducting the three-month period ended December 31, 2006 therefrom.
5. PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS
The following pro forma adjustments are included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet:
A. To give effect to (i) receipt of $100.0 million in aggregate principal amount under revolving line of credit, after deducting fees and expenses of approximately $2.8 million and (ii) cash payments of $362.8 million to acquire the shares of Eagle Test and pay estimated acquisition-related transaction costs of $5.1 million.
B. To increase the historical carrying value of Eagle Test inventories to the estimated selling prices less the cost of disposal and selling effort, including an appropriate return on sales effort.
C. To increase the historical carrying value of Eagle Test inventories to the estimated selling prices less the cost of disposal and selling effort, including an appropriate return on sales effort and to reclassify Eagle customer service inventory to property, plant and equipment; consistent with Teradyne's accounting policy.
D. To adjust deferred taxes.
E. To reclassify Eagle Test customer service inventory to property, plant and equipment, consistent with Teradyne's accounting policy.
F. To record Eagle Test preliminary purchase price allocation to goodwill and intangible assets as though the Eagle Test acquisition had occurred on the balance sheet date. The pro forma adjustment for goodwill differs from the amount shown in Note 3 as the result of different tangible net asset balances as of September 28, 2008 (the date of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet) and November 14, 2008 (the date of the acquisition).
G. To record $2.8 million of fees and expenses related to revolving line of credit and reduce deferred taxes by $0.5 million.
H. To record preliminary acquisition-related liability of $4.2 million for estimated severance costs associated with Eagle Test employees.
I. To record fair value adjustment to Eagle Test's deferred revenue.
J. To reflect the receipt of $100.0 million under revolving line of credit to finance a portion of the Eagle Test cash purchase price.
K. To record preliminary acquisition-related liability of $1.7 million for estimated lease exit costs associated with facilities leased by Eagle Test.
L. To record the following adjustments to shareholders' equity (in thousands):
 
M. To exclude the nonrecurring selling and administrative charge of $1.4 million for investment advisory and legal costs incurred and expensed by Nextest as a direct result of the acquisition prior to the completion of the acquisition.
N. To record amortization of Nextest intangible assets acquired.
 
O. To record forgone interest income resulting from cash utilized in connection with the Nextest acquisition, based on actual cash paid for the acquisition and acquisition costs, and the historical interest rate earned on Teradyne's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
P. To record tax effects associated with the pro forma adjustments recorded in the condensed combined statements of operations.
Q. To record amortization of Eagle Test intangible assets acquired.
R. To record foregone interest income from cash used in connection with the Eagle Test acquisition based on (i) the amount to be paid for the Eagle Test shares and the related acquisition costs and (ii) net proceeds of $97.2 million from line of credit at the historical rate of interest earned on Teradyne's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
S. To reflect additional interest expense after giving effect to the receipt of $100.0 million under revolving line of credit. The adjustment assumes amortization of debt issuance costs on a straight-line basis over the line of credit's 3 year term. Interest expense is based upon an interest rate of 5.5%. Each one-eighth change in the annual interest rate would result in a $0.1 million change in annual interest expense.
T. To eliminate Nextest shares acquired as part of the Nextest acquisition. Note that an adjustment has been made to give effect to the impact of assumed Nextest stock options and restricted stock units as they would have been dilutive.
U. To eliminate Eagle Test shares acquired as part of the Eagle Test acquisition. Note that an adjustment has been made to give effect to the impact of assumed Eagle Test stock options as they would have been dilutive.
V. To exclude the nonrecurring cost of revenue charge of $4.3 million to reflect acquired Nextest inventory at fair value.
W. To exclude the nonrecurring selling and administrative charge of $5.7 million for investment advisory and legal costs incurred and expensed by Nextest as a direct result of the acquisition prior to the completion of the acquisition.
X. To exclude the nonrecurring in-process research and development charge of $1.1 million related to the Nextest acquisition.
Y. To exclude the nonrecurring selling and administrative charge of $2.0 million for investment advisory and legal costs incurred and expensed by Eagle Test as a direct result of the acquisition prior to the completion of the acquisition.
Z. No adjustment made as the impact of potentially dilutive securities would be antidilutive.
6. NONRECURRING CHARGES
The pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the nine months ended September 28, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007 do not reflect the impact on cost of revenues of $4.3 million to reflect Nextest acquired inventory at fair value or the impact on operating expenses of an in-process research and development expense of $1.1 million related to Nextest. The pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the nine months ended September 28, 2008 and the year ended December 31, 2007 do not reflect the impact on selling and administrative expenses of investment advisory and legal costs of $5.7 million and $1.4 million, respectively, incurred and expensed by Nextest as a direct result of the acquisition prior to the acquisition. The pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the nine months ended September 28, 2008 and for the year ended December 31, 2007, respectively, do not reflect the impact on cost of sales of $14.7 million to reflect acquired Eagle Test inventory at fair value and on operating expenses of an in-process research and development expense of $0.5 million related to Eagle Test. The pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the nine months ended September 28, 2008 do not reflect the impact on selling and administrative expenses of investment advisory and legal costs of $2.0 million incurred and expensed by Eagle Test as a direct result of the acquisition prior to the acquisition. Under SEC rules and regulations relating to pro forma financial statements, these amounts are considered to be nonrecurring charges and are excluded from the pro forma statements of operations.
 

Table of Contents
Exhibit 99.3
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
The Stockholders and Management
Eagle Test Systems, Inc.
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Eagle Test Systems, Inc. as of September 30, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of net income and comprehensive income, stockholders' equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2008. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing our audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Eagle Test Systems, Inc. at September 30, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
Chicago, Illinois
December 8, 2008
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
Table of Contents
1. The Company
Eagle Test Systems, Inc. (the Company) designs, manufactures, sells, and services automated test equipment (ATE) for the semiconductor industry. The Company's test systems test analog, mixed-signal, and RF (radio frequency) semiconductor devices. Semiconductor designers and manufacturers worldwide use semiconductor test systems to test devices at different stages during the manufacturing process. These tested devices are incorporated into a wide range of products, including digital cameras, MP3 players, cellular telephones, video/multimedia products, automotive electronics, computer peripherals, and notebook and desktop computers. The Company is headquartered in Buffalo Grove, Illinois, where the Company develops and manufactures its test systems. The Company operates in one industry segment: the design, manufacture, and marketing of automated test equipment. The Company also maintains various offices worldwide for sales, service, and research to support its customer base directly. The operations of, and net investment in, foreign subsidiaries are not material.
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Basis of Presentation
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned foreign subsidiaries. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
Preparation of Financial Statements and Use of Estimates
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Company and reflect all adjustments, which, in the opinion of management, are necessary for the fair presentation of the results. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of income and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results can differ from those estimates.
The Company's foreign operations use local currency as their functional currency. Accordingly, assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at year-end, while revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates prevailing during the year. Gains or losses resulting from foreign exchange transactions are recorded in earnings within other income (expense), net.
 
Table of Contents
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
 
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognized by the Company when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the seller's price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured.
The Company derives revenue primarily from test system sales. Revenue related to systems sales is recognized when (i) the Company has a written sales agreement; (ii) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; (iii) the price is fixed or determinable; and (iv) collectibility is reasonably assured. If installation services are part of a system sale, test system revenue is deferred until the system is delivered, installed, and accepted by the customer.
When sales to a customer involve multiple elements, revenue is recognized on the delivered element, provided that the undelivered element is a standard product with evidence of fair value, there is a history of acceptance of the product with the customer, and the undelivered element is not essential to the customer's application. When a sale of a test system includes post-contract customer support, or PCS, revenue for the PCS is recognized ratably over the PCS period. Revenue related to individual resource boards is recognized upon shipment.
In a few instances, the Company has entered into short-term rental agreements with customers for the use of its systems. The Company recognizes rental revenue ratably over the applicable rental period. Rental revenues are included as a component of product sales and have been immaterial to date.
Shipping and Handling Costs
Shipping and handling costs related to the delivery of systems are expensed as incurred and classified as cost of goods sold in the consolidated statements of net income and comprehensive income.
Product Warranty Costs
The Company's systems are sold with warranty provisions that require the Company to remedy deficiencies in quality or performance of its products over a period ranging from 12 to 24 months. The policy of the Company is to establish warranty reserves at the time revenue is recognized at levels that represent the estimate of costs that will be incurred to fulfill those warranty requirements.
 
Table of Contents
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
 
Research and Development Costs
Research and development costs consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel as well as costs related to materials, outside contractors, equipment depreciation, and other engineering overhead costs. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred.
Income Taxes
The Company recognizes deferred income taxes based on the expected future tax consequences of differences between the financial statement basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities, calculated using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to be reflected in the tax return. Research and development tax credits are recognized for financial reporting purposes to the extent that they can be utilized in the tax return.
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities
The Company considers all highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to cash and that have remaining maturities of three months or less when purchased to be cash and cash equivalents. Marketable securities consist of debt and equity securities that are classified as available for sale and are recorded at fair value. Securities available for sale include variable rate demand notes (VRDNs). Changes in fair value in marketable securities are reflected in other comprehensive income unless a decline in fair value is considered to be other than temporary. Realized gains and losses on sales of marketable securities are determined based on average cost.
Allowance for Sales Returns and Uncollectibles
The Company determines its allowance for sales returns and uncollectibles by making its best estimate considering its historical accounts receivable collection experience, current economic trends, changes in customer payment terms, and recent information that the Company has about the current status of its accounts receivable balances. If future conditions cause the Company's collections experience to change or if the Company later obtains different information about the status of any or all of its accounts receivable, additional allowances for sales returns and uncollectibles may be required.
 
Table of Contents
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
 
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on the first-in, first-out method, and include materials, labor, and manufacturing overhead.
Inventories at customers under purchase orders represent systems that have been shipped under the terms of a customer purchase order, but have not yet qualified for revenue recognition as the systems have not been accepted as of the balance sheet date.
Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are recorded at cost. The Company provides for depreciation and amortization on the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Equipment includes internally manufactured systems used for testing components and engineering and applications development equipment. Repairs and maintenance costs that do not extend the lives of property and equipment are expensed as incurred.
The Company reviews property and equipment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by comparison of the carrying amount to the future undiscounted net cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment loss is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of these assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. There have been no impairments of long-lived assets in the years ended 2008, 2007, or 2006.
Stock Options
The Company records compensation expense using the fair value of options granted over the vesting period on a straight-line basis, including those options that are subject to graded vesting. Under Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 123(R), the Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of the options granted. This model uses such factors as the market price of the underlying shares at date of issuance; exercise price of the option; the expected term of the option, which is approximately six years, utilizing the simplified method as set forth in Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 107; a risk-free interest rate range of approximately 2.1% to 4.9%; and an expected volatility rate range of
 
Table of Contents
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
 
approximately 54% to 67% based upon a peer group of companies, given limited historical data for the Company's own stock. On December 21, 2007, SAB No. 110 was issued which extended the use of the simplified method, which was set to expire on December 31, 2007, in certain situations when sufficient option exercise history does not exist. The Company continues to use the simplified method, due to the lack of sufficient option exercise history. The fair value of $2,705 for options granted in fiscal 2008 will be amortized to expense as vesting occurs, which is over approximately five years. Expense recognized under SFAS No. 123(R) for the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007, and 2006, was $1,353 ($1,215 net of taxes), $602 ($510 net of taxes), and $354 ($312 net of taxes), respectively.
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
As of September 30, 2008 and 2007, the carrying costs of certain of the Company's financial instruments, which include cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities (other than auction rate securities), accounts receivable, and accounts payable, approximate their fair values due to their short maturities or other factors. Refer to Note 3 for discussion on fair value of auction rate securities.
Recent Accounting Pronouncements
Effective October 1, 2007, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48, (FIN 48), which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, and disclosure. The adoption did not have an effect on the results of operations or financial condition. The Company did not have any unrecognized tax benefits as of October 1, 2007 or September 30, 2008. If interest and penalties would need to be accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits, such amounts would be recognized as a component of income tax expense; while prior to adoption of FIN 48, the interest and penalties were recognized as components of interest expense and selling, general, and administrative expense, respectively.
Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109
 
Table of Contents
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, . SFAS No. 157 provides guidance for using fair value to measure assets and liabilities. The standard also responds to investors' requests for more information about (1) the extent to which companies measure assets and liabilities at fair value, (2) the information used to measure fair value, and (3) the effect that fair value measurements have on earnings. SFAS No. 157 will apply whenever another standard requires (or permits) assets or liabilities to be measured at fair value. The standard does not expand the use of fair value to any new circumstances. The Company will adopt this requirement for the fiscal year beginning October 1, 2008. In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) No. FAS 157-1, and FSP No. FAS 157-2, . Collectively, these FSPs allow a one-year deferral of adoption of SFAS No. 157 for nonfinancial assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a non-recurring basis and amend SFAS No. 157 to exclude FASB Statement No. 13 and its related interpretive accounting pronouncements that address leasing transactions. The Company does not believe the adoption of SFAS No. 157 will materially impact its consolidated financial statements.
Fair Value Measurements
Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under Statement 13
Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, . SFAS No. 159 provides companies with an option to report selected financial assets and liabilities at fair value. The standard's objective is to reduce both complexity in accounting for financial instruments and the volatility in earnings caused by measuring related assets and liabilities differently. SFAS No. 159 is effective as of the beginning of an entity's first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2007. Early adoption is permitted as of the beginning of the previous fiscal year provided that the entity makes that choice in the first 120 days of that fiscal year and also elects to apply the provisions of SFAS No. 157. The Company will adopt this requirement for the fiscal year beginning October 1, 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact that the adoption of SFAS No. 159 will have on its consolidated financial statements.
The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities
 
Table of Contents
2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (continued)
 
In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R), , a replacement of FASB Statement No. 141. SFAS No. 141(R) is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2008, and applies to all business combinations. SFAS No. 141(R) provides that, upon initially obtaining control, an acquirer shall recognize 100% of the fair values of acquired assets, including goodwill, and assumed liabilities, with only limited exceptions, even if the acquirer has not acquired 100% of its target. As a consequence, the current step acquisition model will be eliminated. While the adoption of this standard is not expected to have any impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations, the adoption of SFAS No. 141(R) could materially change the accounting for business combinations consummated subsequent to the implementation date.
Business Combinations
3. Marketable Securities and Long-Term Investments
At September 30, 2008 and 2007, the Company's marketable securities were invested in VRDNs. The Company has an option to put the VRDNs back to the financial institution remarketing agent that provides for liquidity within two to five days, and these instruments trade at par value. Since the put option is not with the original issuer, the VRDNs are classified as marketable securities available for sale. Of the VRDNs held by the Company as of September 30, 2008, $13,600 had contractual maturities of 5 to 10 years, and $25,810 had contractual maturities over 10 years.
The Company's long-term investments were comprised of auction rate securities (ARSs). As of September 30, 2008, the Company had $29,950 (at par) of ARSs, which are variable rate securities, all of which are AA/AAA rated and collateralized by student loans ($24,850 at par) and municipal revenues ($5,100 at par). The student loan ARSs are substantially guaranteed by a U.S. Department of Education agency or a third-party insurer. The ARSs are typically bought and sold in a Dutch auction process that resets the interest rate through buyers and sellers stipulating the reset interest rate for the par value of the securities. While the underlying securities for the ARSs have a long-term nominal maturity, the interest rate is reset through a Dutch auction process at predetermined intervals of 7 to 35 days.
 
Table of Contents
3. Marketable Securities and Long-Term Investments (continued)
 
Starting mid-February 2008, the Company experienced difficulties in selling the ARSs due to the failure of auctions. These failed auctions represent market liquidity risk and not defaults or credit events. The Company continues to receive interest on the investment, currently at a predetermined maximum rate based on a spread above named market rate indices or a penalty interest rate stipulated in the bond indenture. In the absence of observable market data, the Company obtained a third party valuation analysis which considered factors such as type of security, tax status, credit quality, expected holding periods, portfolio composition, and credit and liquidity premiums. Based upon this valuation, the Company determined the fair value of the ARSs to be $27,535, resulting in an unrealized loss of $2,415 ($1,466 net of tax) as of September 30, 2008.
Pursuant to SFAS No. 115, , as well as other related accounting guidance, the Company considered whether the decline in fair value of the ARSs compared to their par value is temporary as of September 30, 2008. Considering the decline in fair values has been relatively short in duration and considering the overall quality of the underlying investments and the anticipated future market for such investments, and given the Company's ability and intent to hold these investments until they fully recover in value (including until contractual maturity, if necessary), the unrealized loss is considered to be temporary. However, the Company will reassess this conclusion in future reporting periods based on several factors, including possible failure of the investments to be redeemed, potential deterioration of the credit ratings of the investments, market risk, the Company's continued ability and intent to hold until contractual maturity, and other factors. Such reassessment may result in a conclusion that these investments are other-than-temporarily impaired. If it is determined that the fair value of these securities is other-than-temporarily impaired, the Company would record a loss in its consolidated statements of net income and comprehensive income, which could materially adversely impact its results of operations and financial condition.
Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities
The Company recorded the unrealized loss as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The estimated fair value of the ARSs is classified as noncurrent assets as of September 30, 2008.
In October 2008, the Company received an offer from UBS AG, one of its investment providers, to sell at par value $26,250 of ARSs originally purchased from UBS at anytime during a two-year period beginning June 30, 2010. The Company has accepted this nontransferable offer.
 
Table of Contents
3. Marketable Securities and Long-Term Investments (continued)
 
The carrying value of marketable securities and long-term investments as of the dates indicated are as follows:
 
Based on the contractual maturities of the available-for-sale ARSs as of September 30, 2008, the par value and estimated fair market value of the securities were as follows:
 
The realized gains, losses, and interest are included in income from marketable securities in the consolidated statements of net income and comprehensive income.
 
Table of Contents
3. Marketable Securities and Long-Term Investments (continued)
 
Interest and dividend income and realized gains from sales of marketable securities are as follows:
 
4. Inventories
Inventories consist of the following:
 
The Company's policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon assumptions about future demand for products or market conditions. The Company regularly evaluates the ability to realize the value of its inventory based on a combination of factors, including forecasted sales or usage, estimated product end-of-life dates, estimated current and future market value, and new product introductions. Purchasing and alternative usage options are also explored to mitigate obsolete inventory exposure. When recorded, reserves are intended to reduce the carrying value of inventory to its net realizable value. Inventory of $32,441 is stated net of inventory
 
Table of Contents
4. Inventories (continued)
 
reserves of $9,565 as of September 30, 2008. Inventory of $22,233 is stated net of inventory reserves of $8,377 as of September 30, 2007. If actual demand for products deteriorates or market conditions are less favorable than those the Company projects, additional inventory reserves may be required.
5. Property and Equipment
Property and equipment are summarized as follows:
 
 
The Company has recorded certain office furniture under capital leases. The cost of such office furniture and related accumulated depreciation was $1,054 and $811, respectively, as of September 30, 2008, and $1,050 and $594, respectively, as of September 30, 2007.
Depreciation expense was $4,163, $3,554, and $3,193, for the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Depreciation expense includes amortization of office furniture under capital leases of $261, $276, and $212 for the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.
 
Table of Contents
6. Capital Lease Obligations
 
7. Stockholders' Equity and Preferred Stock
Equity Offerings
On March 14, 2006, the Company completed an initial public offering to sell 6,130,000 shares of common stock to the public at an offering price of $15.50 per share. The initial public offering resulted in net proceeds of $86,680. Of the net proceeds, $30,595 was used to redeem the Company's senior subordinated debt outstanding and $32,500 was used to redeem the Company's redeemable preferred stock outstanding just prior to the offering. The Company retained the remaining $23,585 in net proceeds for working capital and general corporate purposes.
On October 3, 2006, the Company completed a public offering to sell an additional 2,000,000 shares of common stock at an offering price of $16.50 per share, generating net proceeds of $30,524, which includes $422 of offering expenses recorded in the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Because the shares were sold on September 27, 2006, the transaction was included in stockholders' equity and gross proceeds of $31,185 were recorded as a receivable from the sale of common stock in the consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2006. On October 11, 2006, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional 200,000 shares of common stock at an offering price of $16.50 per share, generating net proceeds of $3,119.
 
Table of Contents
7. Stockholders' Equity and Preferred Stock (continued)
 
Recapitalization
On March 14, 2006, in connection with the Company's initial public offering, a Second Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the state of Delaware that was adopted by the stockholders prior to the initial public offering that implemented the following changes to the Company's capital stock:
Change in Authorized Shares
The Company's Articles of Incorporation were amended to increase the authorized capital stock of the Company from 15,502,199 shares of capital stock consisting of (i) 15,495,325 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share; (ii) 3,437 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (Series A Convertible Preferred Stock); and (iii) 3,437 shares of Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share (Redeemable Preferred Stock) to 100,000,000 shares of capital stock consisting of (i) 90,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and (ii) 10,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share.
Common Stock
In connection with the initial public offering, 3,436 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by investment funds managed by TA Associates (collectively, the Investors) were converted into 8,590,247 shares of common stock and 3,436 shares of Redeemable Preferred Stock. The conversion resulted in $43,930 being reclassified to the capital accounts of the Company based upon a valuation performed at the time of issuance of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. As discussed below, the Redeemable Preferred Stock was redeemed with a portion of the proceeds from the initial public offering.
In addition, prior to the initial public offering, the Investors exercised $0.01 per share common stock warrants for 525,040 shares of common stock resulting from the conversion of the Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes.
At September 30, 2008, the Company has reserved 3,198,396 unissued shares of its common stock for possible issuance under the Company's 2003 Stock Option and Grant Plan and 2006 Stock Option and Incentive Plan.
No dividend restrictions exist as of September 30, 2008 and 2007.
 
Table of Contents
7. Stockholders' Equity and Preferred Stock (continued)
 
Preferred Stock
The Company's Board of Directors is authorized, without action by the stockholders, to designate and issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series. The Board of Directors can fix the rights, preferences, and privileges of the shares of each series and any of its qualifications, limitations, or restrictions. The Board of Directors may authorize the issuance of preferred stock with voting or conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power or other rights of the holders of common stock. The Board of Directors will make any determination to issue such shares based on its judgment as to the Company's best interests and the best interests of its stockholders. The Company has no current plans to issue any shares of preferred stock.
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (Redeemed in Initial Public Offering)
Upon the conversion of all of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into Redeemable Preferred Stock and common stock, a portion of the proceeds from the initial public offering was used to redeem all of the shares of the Redeemable Preferred Stock for $32,500. The difference between the fair market value of the Redeemable Preferred Stock at date of issuance of $21,070 and the redemption price of $32,500, or $11,430, was charged to retained earnings in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 98-5, .
Accounting for Convertible Securities with Beneficial Conversion Features or Contingently Adjustable Conversion Ratios
Prior to the initial public offering, the Company had designated 3,437 of its shares of authorized preferred stock as convertible preferred stock.
Redeemable Preferred Stock (Redeemed in Initial Public Offering)
As noted above, upon the conversion of all of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock into Redeemable Preferred Stock and common stock, a portion of the proceeds from the initial public offering was used to redeem all of the shares of the Redeemable Preferred Stock for $32,500.
Prior to the initial public offering, the Company had designated 3,437 shares of its authorized preferred stock as Redeemable Preferred Stock. As of September 30, 2008 and 2007, no shares of Redeemable Preferred Stock were authorized or outstanding.
 
Table of Contents
7. Stockholders' Equity and Preferred Stock (continued)
 
Warrants (Exercised Prior to Initial Public Offering)
Prior to the exercise of the common stock warrants in connection with the initial public offering, the warrants enabled the Investors to put the warrants to the Company at fair value at any time after September 30, 2008. The warrants were thereby considered liability instruments and recorded at fair value based upon independent valuations. The change in the value of the warrants was an increase of $5,466 for fiscal 2006 and was recorded in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income as other (income) expense. The warrants were exercised by the Investors on March 14, 2006, in connection with the Company's initial public offering, and the carrying value of $8,133 was reclassified to stockholders' equity.
8. Investment by TA Associates
On September 30, 2003, investment funds managed by TA Associates (collectively referred to as the Investors) purchased 3,436 shares of convertible preferred stock for $65,000. The Company also issued Notes to the Investors (the Notes) aggregating $30,000, bearing annual interest of 12%, which mature September 30, 2009. From the date of issuance, at the option of the holders, the Notes were convertible into (i) senior subordinated notes aggregating $29,995 (plus accrued and unpaid interest), bearing annual interest of 12%, and maturing September 30, 2009; and (ii) redeemable warrants to purchase 525,040 shares of common stock at a price of $0.01 per share. The allocated fair value of the warrants was accounted for as a discount of $1,718 on the Notes and was being amortized to interest expense over the term of the Notes. As the warrants enabled the holders to put the warrants to the Company at fair value at any time after September 30, 2008, the warrants were considered liability instruments and recorded at fair value based on independent valuations. As of September 30, 2005, the common stock warrants were revalued based upon an independent valuation. The change in the value of the warrants was an increase of $5,466 through the date of exercise (total value of $2,667 at September 30, 2005), and a corresponding expense for the increase in fair market value was recorded in the consolidated financial statements as other (income) expense.
In connection with the completion of the Company's initial public offering on March 14, 2006, the 12% senior subordinated convertible notes were converted into $29,995 in 12% senior subordinated notes and 525,040 of $0.01 common stock warrants. As discussed in Note 7, the common stock warrants were exercised by the Investors. The senior subordinated notes were repurchased from the Investors with a portion of the proceeds from the initial public offering for
 
Table of Contents
8. Investment by TA Associates (continued)
 
$29,995, along with the payment of a 2% early redemption premium of $600. The unamortized debt discount of $1,033 from the original issue of the 12% senior subordinated convertible notes was charged to interest expense in March 2006 in connection with recording the note conversion and redemption.
9. Income Taxes
The components of the provision for income taxes consist of the following:
 
 
Table of Contents
9. Income Taxes (continued)
 
Reconciliations of the U.S. federal statutory rate to the Company's effective tax rates are as follows:
 
Effective October 1, 2007, the Company adopted FIN 48, which prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. FIN 48 also provides guidance on derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, and disclosure. The adoption did not have an effect on the results of operations or financial condition. The Company did not have any unrecognized tax benefits as of October 1, 2007 or September 30, 2008. If interest and penalties would need to be accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits, such amounts would be recognized as a component of income tax expense; while prior to adoption of FIN 48, the interest and penalties were recognized as components of interest expense and selling, general, and administrative expense, respectively.
The Company is subject to U.S. federal income tax, as well as income tax from multiple state and foreign jurisdictions. As of September 30, 2008, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. federal income tax examination for fiscal years before 2005 and is no longer subject to major state or foreign income tax examination for fiscal years before 2004. The Company does not anticipate any material adjustments to its consolidated financial statements resulting from tax examinations currently in progress.
 
Table of Contents
9. Income Taxes (continued)
 
The temporary differences that created the deferred tax assets and (liabilities) are as follows:
 
10. Employee Benefit Plans
Benefit Plan Changes  2007
In fiscal 2007 the Company amended the Eagle Test Systems, Inc. Profit Sharing Plan and Trust to allow for employee elective salary deferrals intended to qualify as salary reduction contributions under Internal Revenue Code Section 401(k). The plan was also amended to change the plan name to the Eagle Test Systems, Inc. Profit Sharing and Employee Savings Plan (the Plan) and to allow the Company to match a portion of an employee elective contribution. The Company employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) and pension plan assets were merged into the new Plan in connection with the amendment, effective July 9, 2007. The Plan amendment and restatement were generally effective October 1, 2006. The Plan, as amended, covers substantially all employees of the Company and is subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). The Plan, as amended, is a discretionary, defined-contribution plan. Eligible employees are defined as those who have completed 90 days of service and have attained the age of 21. Company contributions of discretionary or matching contribution funds vest to participants' accounts on a graded vesting schedule and become 100%
 
Table of Contents
10. Employee Benefit Plans (continued)
 
vested after achieving five years of service. The Company expensed approximately $632 and $140 as matching contributions under the Plan for the years ended September 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. At September 30, 2008 and 2007, the participant accounts held 731,622 and 762,493 shares of common stock of the Company, respectively.
Employee Stock Ownership Plan
The Company had an ESOP, which was amended effective July 9, 2007. The ESOP assets were merged into the amended and restated Eagle Test Systems, Inc. Profit Sharing and Employee Savings Plan, as noted above. Any Company contribution to the ESOP was discretionary. For the years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, no amount was expensed for the ESOP contribution. The ESOP owned 834,565 shares of common stock at September 30, 2006.
Other Compensation Plans
The Company has established a profit-sharing plan, which is a discretionary, defined-contribution plan. This profit-sharing plan was amended and restated effective October 1, 2006, as described under Benefit Plan Changes  2007, above. Under the profit-sharing plan, prior to the amendment, the Company expensed approximately $490 for the year ended September 30, 2006.
The Company also had a pension plan, which was a defined-contribution plan and allowed discretionary contributions. This pension plan was amended effective July 9, 2007, and the pension plan assets were merged into the amended and restated Eagle Test Systems, Inc. Profit Sharing and Employee Savings Plan, as noted above, and also allowed for discretionary contributions. Under the pension plan, the Company expensed approximately $170 and $163 for the years ended September 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Table of Contents
11. Stock Option Plan
 
The Company adopted the 2003 Stock Option and Grant Plan and the 2006 Stock Option and Incentive Plan (the Plans), which provide for the issuance of incentive and nonqualified common stock options to employees, directors, and consultants of the Company. The Board of Directors has reserved 2,978,396 shares of common stock to be issued in conjunction with these Plans. The term of the options shall be no more than 10 years from the date of grant. Options granted under the Plans generally vest in periods between one and five years, as determined by the Board of Directors.
The Company's stock option activity for the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007, and 2006, under the Plans is as follows:
 
 
Table of Contents
11. Stock Option Plan (continued)
 
The Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R) effective October 1, 2005. A summary of the status of the Company's nonvested stock options issued post-SFAS No. 123(R) implementation, as of September 30, 2008, and activity for the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007, and 2006, is as follows:
 
 
Table of Contents
11. Stock Option Plan (continued)
 
As of September 30, 2008, there was $4,872 ($4,015 net of estimated forfeitures) of total unrecognized compensation costs related to the stock-based compensation granted under the Plans. This cost is expected to be amortized over a weighted-average service period of four years. The fair value of the related stock-based compensation expense recorded for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, was $1,353, $602, and $354, respectively. The following table summarizes information about all stock options outstanding for the Company as of September 30, 2008:
 
Stock option aggregate intrinsic value information for the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007, and 2006, follows:
 
 
Table of Contents
12. Concentration of Credit Risk
 
The Company has a concentration of sales with certain major semiconductor manufacturers that individually represent more than 10% of total revenue. Sales to these major semiconductor manufacturers were as follows:
 
Major semiconductor manufacturer companies comprise a significant portion of the Company's trade receivables. As of September 30, 2008, three customers (Fairchild Semiconductor International Incorporated, ON Semiconductor Corporation, and Texas Instruments Incorporated) comprised approximately 56% of the Company's trade receivables balance. As of September 30, 2007, three customers (Fairchild Semiconductor International Incorporated, STMicroelectronics N.V., and Texas Instruments Incorporated) comprised approximately 55% of the Company's trade receivables balance.
Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk, are cash equivalents, marketable securities, long-term investments, and accounts receivable. All of the Company's cash equivalents and marketable securities are held by major financial institutions. Deposits held with financial institutions may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. All of the Company's long-term investments are auction rate securities issued by several state agencies which are AA/AAA rated and collateralized by student loans and municipal revenues and are substantially guaranteed by a U.S. Department of Education agency or a third-party insurer. Concentration of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is limited to certain customers to whom the Company makes substantial sales. To reduce its credit risk, the Company routinely assesses the financial strength of its customers. The Company does not require collateral; although the Company obtains letters of credit on sales to certain foreign customers. An allowance for doubtful accounts is maintained at a level management believes is sufficient to cover potential credit losses based on past collection history and specific risks identified among uncollectible accounts. Accounts receivable are charged off against the allowance for doubtful accounts when it is determined that the receivable will not be collected.
 
Table of Contents
13. Comprehensive Income
 
Comprehensive income is comprised of two components, net income and other comprehensive income. The components of other comprehensive income, and related tax effects, were as follows for the fiscal year ended September 30:
 
14. Industry and Geographic Segment Information
Operating Segments
The Company operates in one industry segment: the design, manufacture, and marketing of automated test equipment for the semiconductor industry that is used to test analog, mixed-signal, and RF devices.
Geographic Information
The Company markets its products and related services to customers mainly through a direct sales force. Revenues are attributed to geographic areas based on the country in which the customer is domiciled.
The Company's revenues are generated from sales into the following geographic regions (denominated in United States dollars):
 
Substantially all of the Company's long-lived assets are located in the United States.
 
Table of Contents
15. Commitments and Contingencies
 
Lease Commitments
The Company has operating and capital lease commitments for certain facilities and equipment. Minimum lease payments under noncancelable leases are as follows:
 
Total rent expense for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006, was $2,354, $2,177, and $2,126, respectively.
Contingencies
The Company's sales agreements indemnify its customers for any expenses or liabilities resulting from claimed infringements of patents, trademarks, or copyrights of third parties. The terms of these indemnification agreements are generally indefinite after execution of the agreement. The maximum amount of potential future indemnification is unlimited. However, to date, the Company has not paid any claims or been required to defend any lawsuits with respect to any claim.
 
Table of Contents
15. Commitments and Contingencies (continued)
 
From time to time, the Company may have certain contingent liabilities that arise in the ordinary course of its business activities. The Company accrues contingent liabilities when it is probable that future expenditures will be made and such expenditures can be reasonably estimated. In the opinion of management, there are no pending claims of which the outcome is expected to result in a material adverse effect on the financial position, results of operations, or cash flows of the Company.
Product Warranty
The following table shows the details of the product warranty accrual, which is included in other accrued expenses on the consolidated balance sheet:
 
16. Subsequent Events
On November 14, 2008, the Company completed the merger contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) with Teradyne Inc., a Massachusetts corporation (Buyer), and Turin Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Buyer (Merger Sub), entered into on September 1, 2008. Subject to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub merged with and into the Company with the Company being the surviving entity and continuing as a wholly owned subsidiary of Buyer (the Merger). The Merger Agreement was approved and adopted by the Company's stockholders at a special meeting of stockholders on November 7, 2008.
 
Table of Contents
16. Subsequent Events (continued)
 
Subject to the terms of the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger, each issued and outstanding share of the Company's common stock was converted into the right to receive cash, without interest, in an amount equal to $15.65 per share. In connection with the Merger, the Company notified the NASDAQ Global Market (NASDAQ) on November 14, 2008, that the Merger was consummated. NASDAQ has filed a delisting application on Form 25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission to report that the shares of the Company's common stock are no longer listed on NASDAQ.
The vesting conditions of certain outstanding stock options were accelerated immediately prior to the closing, pursuant to the terms of the award agreements under which such options were originally granted. Each outstanding stock option was assumed by Buyer and converted into an option to acquire shares of Buyer, adjusted according to the terms of the Merger Agreement.
The Company has incurred merger-related fees of $2,032 in the quarter and year ended September 30, 2008. During the period from October 1, 2008 to November 14, 2008, the Company incurred additional financial advisor and legal fees related to the Merger of approximately $4,670.
 


