FILE:TER/TER-8K-20090429215629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 29, 2009, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the first quarter ended April 5, 2009. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
NORTH READING, Mass.()Teradyne, Inc (NYSE: TER) reported revenue of $121 million for the first quarter of 2009. On a non-GAAP basis, Teradyne's net loss in the first quarter was $65.6 million, or $0.38 per diluted share, which excludes restructuring charges, acquired intangible asset amortization and special items. The GAAP net loss for the first quarter was $90.7 million, or $0.53 per diluted share.
BUSINESS WIRE
Bookings for the first quarter were $136 million, including $31 million for Hard Disk Drive test systems.
Guidance for the second quarter of 2009 is for revenue of $120 million to $130 million, with a loss per share between $0.26 and $0.23 on a non-GAAP basis and between $0.44 and $0.40 on a GAAP basis. Non-GAAP guidance excludes restructuring charges, as well as acquired intangible asset amortization, and other special items.
"Despite a very harsh business climate in the first quarter, we're beginning to see some initial recovery signs as we enter the second quarter," said Mike Bradley, Teradyne president and CEO. "Installed equipment utilization rates are starting to turn up and customers are formulating modest capex outlays for new IC products they're bringing to market in the second half of the year.
"We continue to press forward on the new product front in both our Semiconductor Test and Systems Test markets. In the Hard Disk Drive segment, we've received initial orders for our Neptune tester, and we're projecting revenue recognition in the third quarter. We also have very strong operating leverage in our business model as we grow revenues going forward."
Webcast
A webcast to discuss first quarter 2009 results, along with management's business outlook will be held at 10 a.m. EDT, Thursday, April 30, 2009. Interested investors should access the webcast at and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins. The webcast replay will be available on . In addition, a conference call replay will be available approximately two hours after the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 800-642-1687. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 706-645-9291. The pass code for both numbers is 95502319. The replay will be available via phone and web site through May 14, 2009.
www.teradyne.com
www.teradyne.com
Non-GAAP Results
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain income items and charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Teradyne reports non-GAAP results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. Management believes the non-GAAP measures help indicate Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of our current core business or future outlook. Teradyne believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of its results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how Teradyne plans and measures its own business. A reconciliation of each available GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached exhibits and on the Teradyne website at by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
www.teradyne.com
About Teradyne, Inc.
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2008, Teradyne had sales of $1.1 billion. For more information, visit . Teradyne
www.teradyne.com
(R)
is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
Safe Harbor Statement
The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication. Teradyne disclaims any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding future business prospects, our results of operations and market conditions. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees of future performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of our future results or other forward looking statements will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: conditions affecting the markets in which Teradyne operates, including a continued or further deterioration of the semiconductor equipment market; decreased product demand; delays in new product introductions; lack of customer acceptance of new products; unanticipated delays in or costs and expenses relating to the implementation of cost reduction plans; and other events, factors and risks disclosed in filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, the "Risk Factors" section of Teradyne's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008.
 
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR FIRST FISCAL QUARTER OF 2009
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
 
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
References by the Company to non-GAAP (loss)/income and non-GAAP (loss)/income per share refer to net (loss)/income and net (loss)/income per common share excluding goodwill impairment, in-process research and development, restructuring and other, net, certain inventory provision reversals, fair value inventory step-up related to Nextest and Eagle Test, losses on marketable securities and acquired intangible asset amortization, as well as applicable adjustments to profit sharing and income taxes due to these exclusions. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining net (loss)/income. Non-GAAP (loss)/income (which is the basis for non-GAAP (loss)/income per share) gives an indication of Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of our current core business or future outlook.
The Company believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of the Company's results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how the Company plans and measures its own business. However, the presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information provided in accordance with GAAP.
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.
 


