FILE:TER/TER-8K-20091029060618.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2009, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended October 4, 2009. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 October 28, 2009  (NYSE: TER) reported revenue of $262 million for the third quarter of 2009. Semiconductor Test revenue totaled $173 million and Systems Test Group revenue totaled $89 million. On a non-GAAP basis, Teradyne's income from continuing operations in the third quarter was $24.8 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, which excluded restructuring charges, acquired intangible asset amortization and special items. GAAP income from continuing operations for the third quarter was $6.7 million, or $0.04 per diluted share.
NORTH READING, Mass.
Teradyne, Inc.
Bookings in the third quarter of 2009 were $288 million of which $233 million was in Semiconductor Test and $55 million in Systems Test Group.
Guidance for the fourth quarter of 2009 is for revenue of $255 million to $270 million, with Non-GAAP net income per share of $0.12 to $0.17 and GAAP net income per share between $0.04 and $0.09. Non-GAAP guidance excludes restructuring charges, acquired intangible asset amortization and special items.
"Our Semiconductor and Systems Test businesses continued to gain strength through the quarter driving our return to operating profitability and positive outlook for Q4," said Teradyne president and CEO Mike Bradley. "We reached a major milestone in our expansion into new markets as we received initial orders for the UltraFLEX-M high-speed memory test system."
Webcast
A webcast to discuss third quarter 2009 results, along with management's business outlook will be held at 10 a.m. EDT, Thursday, October 29, 2009. Interested investors should access the webcast at www.teradyne.com and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins. The webcast replay will be available on www.teradyne.com. In addition, a conference call replay will be available approximately two hours after the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 800-642-1687. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 706-645-9291. The pass code for both numbers is 36016837. The replay will be available via phone and web site through November 13, 2009.
Non-GAAP Results
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain income items and charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Teradyne reports non-GAAP results in order to better assess and reflect operating performance. Management believes the non-GAAP measures help indicate Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of our current core business or future outlook. Teradyne believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of its results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how Teradyne plans and measures its own business. A reconciliation of each available GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached exhibits and on the Teradyne website at www.teradyne.com by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
Taradyne Reports Third Quarter 2009 Results
Page 2
 
About Teradyne
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2008, Teradyne had sales of $1.1 billion. For more information, visit www.teradyne.com. Teradyne(R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
Safe Harbor Statement
The forward-looking statements included in this release are made only as of the date of publication. Teradyne disclaims any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this press release.
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding future business prospects, Teradyne's results of operations and market conditions. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees of future performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of Teradyne's future results or other forward looking statements will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: conditions affecting the markets in which Teradyne operates; decreased product demand; delays in new product introductions; lack of customer acceptance of new products; unanticipated delays in or costs and expenses relating to the implementation of cost reduction plans; and other events, factors and risks disclosed in filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, the "Risk Factors" section of Teradyne's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 5, 2009. The forward-looking statements provided by Teradyne in this press release represent management's views as of the date of this release. Teradyne anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause management's views to change. However, while Teradyne may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Teradyne specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Teradyne's views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR THIRD FISCAL QUARTER OF 2009
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For information on possible dilution related to the convertible note, investors should access Teradyne's website at www. teradyne.com and click on "Investors" and then select the "Financial Data" link.
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
References by the Company to non-GAAP income/(loss) and non-GAAP income/(loss) per share refer to income/(loss) from continuing operations or income/(loss) per common share from continuing operations excluding goodwill impairment, in-process research and development, amortization of the GAAP imputed convertible debt discount, write-off of credit line debt issue costs, restructuring and other, net, certain inventory provision reversals, fair value inventory step-up related to Nextest and Eagle Test, (losses)/gains on marketable securities and acquired intangible asset amortization, as well as applicable adjustments to profit sharing and income taxes due to these exclusions. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining income/(loss) from continuing operations. Non-GAAP income/(loss) from continuing operations (which is the basis for non-GAAP income/(loss) from continuing operations per share) gives an indication of Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of our current core business or future outlook.
The Company believes these non-GAAP measures will aid investors' overall understanding of the Company's results by providing a higher degree of transparency for certain expenses and providing a level of disclosure that will help investors understand how the Company plans and measures its own business. However, the presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, financial information provided in accordance with GAAP.
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage on the World Wide Web at http://www.teradyne.com.


