FILE:TER/TER-8K-20101028061822.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 27, 2010, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended October 3, 2010. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 October 27, 2010  (NYSE: TER) reported revenue of $502 million for the third quarter of 2010 of which $448 million was in Semiconductor Test and $54 million in Systems Test Group. On a non-GAAP basis, Teradyne's net income in the third quarter was $156.4 million, or $0.82 per diluted share, which excluded acquired intangible asset amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest and restructuring and other charges. GAAP net income for the third quarter was $147.3 million, or $0.66 per diluted share.
NORTH READING, Mass.
Teradyne, Inc.
Bookings in the third quarter of 2010 were $350 million of which $259 million were in Semiconductor Test and $91 million in the Systems Test Group.
Guidance for the fourth quarter of 2010 is revenue of $300 million to $325 million, with non-GAAP net income per diluted share of $0.21 to $0.28 and GAAP net income per diluted share of $0.14 to $0.20. Non-GAAP guidance excludes acquired intangible asset amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest and restructuring and other charges.
"In the third quarter, we recorded the highest operating profit rate in Teradyne's history driven by very strong System-on-Chip (SOC) test revenues," said Mike Bradley, Teradyne president and CEO. "Our memory test business was stable and we saw order growth in all segments of our Systems Test Group, led by Hard Disk Drive. After five quarters of sequential growth, SOC orders fell sharply as our customers digest the investments made over the last year. Regardless of the duration of this downturn in SOC orders, we're confident our growing market share, lean operating model and strict cost discipline will deliver strong financial performance across the cycle."
Webcast
A webcast to discuss third quarter results, along with management's business outlook will be held at 10 a.m. EDT, Thursday, October 28, 2010. Interested investors should access the webcast at www.teradyne.com and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins. The webcast replay will be available on www.teradyne.com. In addition, a conference call replay will be available approximately two hours after the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 800-642-1687. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 706-645-9291. The pass code for both numbers is 89233317. The replay will be available via phone and web site through November 14, 2010.
Non-GAAP Results
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain income items and charges. These results are provided
Teradyne Reports Third Quarter 2010 Results
Page 2
as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP income/(loss) from operations and non-GAAP net income/(loss) exclude goodwill impairment, in-process research and development, non- cash convertible debt interest, write-off of credit line debt issue costs, restructuring and other, net, fair value inventory step-up related to Nextest and Eagle Test, (losses)/gains on marketable securities and acquired intangible asset amortization, as well as applicable adjustments to profit sharing (prior to January 1, 2010) and income taxes due to these exclusions. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining income/(loss) from operations and net income/(loss). Non-GAAP income/(loss) from operations, non-GAAP net income/(loss), non-GAAP income/(loss) from operations and non-GAAP net income/(loss) as a percentage of revenue, and non-GAAP net income/(loss) per share are non-GAAP measures presented to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of Teradyne's current core business or future outlook. These non-GAAP measures are used to make operational decisions, to determine employee compensation, to forecast future operational results, and for comparison with Teradyne's business plan, historical operating results and the operating results of Teradyne's competitors. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes charges related to the fair value inventory step-up recorded as part of acquisition purchase accounting. GAAP requires that this item be included in determining gross margin. Non-GAAP gross margin dollar amount and percentage are non-GAAP measures that management believes provide useful supplemental information for management and the investor. Management uses non-GAAP gross margin as a performance measure for Teradyne's current core business and future outlook and for comparison with Teradyne's business plan, historical gross margin results and the gross margin results of Teradyne's competitors. Non-GAAP diluted shares include the impact of Teradyne's call option on its shares. Management believes each of these non-GAAP measures provides useful supplemental information for investors, allowing greater transparency to the information used by management in its operational decision making and in the review of Teradyne's financial and operational performance, as well as facilitating meaningful comparisons of Teradyne's results in the current period compared with those in prior and future periods. A reconciliation of each available GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached exhibits and on the Teradyne website at www.teradyne.com by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
About Teradyne
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) the leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2009, Teradyne had sales of $819 million and currently employs about 3,000 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.teradyne.com. Teradyne(R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
Safe Harbor Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding future business prospects, Teradyne's results of operations and market conditions. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees of future performance.
Teradyne Reports Third Quarter 2010 Results
Page 3
You can identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of Teradyne's future results or other forward looking statements will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: conditions affecting the markets in which Teradyne operates; decreased or delayed product demand; and other events, factors and risks disclosed in filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, the "Risk Factors" section of Teradyne's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 4, 2010. The forward-looking statements provided by Teradyne in this press release represent management's views as of the date of this release. Teradyne anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause management's views to change. However, while Teradyne may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Teradyne specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Teradyne's views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR THE THIRD QUARTER OF 2010
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)
 
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation of fourth quarter 2010 guidance:
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage at http://www.teradyne.com.
Contact: Teradyne, Inc.
Andy Blanchard 978-370-2425
Vice President of Corporate Relations
 


