FILE:TER/TER-8K-20100128070526.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 27, 2010, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2009. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 January 27, 2010  . (NYSE: TER) reported revenue of $267 million for the fourth quarter of 2009 of which $198 million was in Semiconductor Test and $69 million in Systems Test Group. On a non-GAAP basis, Teradyne's income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter was $30.1 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, which excluded acquired intangible asset amortization, restructuring charges and special items. GAAP income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $16.9 million, or $0.09 per diluted share.
NORTH READING, Mass.
Teradyne, Inc
Bookings in the fourth quarter of 2009 were $303 million of which $263 million were in Semiconductor Test and $40 million in Systems Test Group.
For fiscal year 2009, revenue was $819 million. Loss from continuing operations for the year was $46.3 million or $0.27 per share on a non-GAAP basis. The GAAP loss was $133.8 million or $0.77 per share. Bookings for the year were $955 million.
Teradyne Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2009 results
Page 2
 
Guidance for the first quarter of 2010 is for revenue of $290 million to $310 million, with non-GAAP net income per share of $0.20 to $0.26 and GAAP net income per share between $0.14 and $0.19. Non-GAAP guidance excludes acquired intangible asset amortization, restructuring charges and special items.
"The recovery in our System on a Chip (SOC) test business continued this past quarter as customer demand broadened across most product lines," said Mike Bradley, Teradyne president and CEO. "In particular, we saw strong increases in wireless and microcontroller test applications. The leverage of our business model is evident in the results of this past quarter where we delivered the highest operating profit rate in over five years. So as we enter 2010, our short-term mission is to meet this growing demand while driving our new market initiatives and maintaining tight cost controls."
Webcast
A webcast to discuss fourth quarter and fiscal year 2009 results, along with management's business outlook will be held at 10 a.m. EDT, Thursday, January 28, 2010. Interested investors should access the webcast at www.teradyne.com and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins. The webcast replay will be available on www.teradyne.com. In addition, a conference call replay will be available approximately two hours after the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 800-642-1687. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 706-645-9291. The pass code for both numbers is 51223399. The replay will be available via phone and web site through February 12, 2010.
Non-GAAP Results
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain income items and charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP income/(loss) from operations and non-GAAP income/(loss) from continuing operations exclude goodwill impairment, in-process research and development, amortization of the GAAP imputed convertible debt discount, write-off of credit line debt issue costs, restructuring and other, net, certain inventory provision reversals, fair value inventory step-up related to Nextest and Eagle Test, (losses)/gains on marketable securities and acquired intangible asset amortization, as well as applicable adjustments to profit sharing and income taxes due to these exclusions. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining income/(loss) from operations and income/(loss) from continuing operations. Non-GAAP income/(loss) from operations, non-GAAP income/(loss) from continuing operations, non-GAAP income/(loss) from operations and continuing operations as a percentage of revenue and non-GAAP income/(loss) from continuing operations per share are non-GAAP measures presented to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of the Company's current core business or future outlook. These non-GAAP measures are used to make operational decisions, to determine employee compensation, to forecast future operational results, and for comparison with the Company's business plan, historical operating results and the operating results of the Company's competitors. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes, among other things, charges related to the fair value inventory step-up recorded as part of acquisition purchase accounting and the sale of previously written down inventory. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining gross margin. Non-GAAP gross margin dollar amount and percentage are non-GAAP measures that management believes provide useful supplemental information for management and the investor. Management uses non-GAAP gross margin as a
Teradyne Reports Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2009 results
Page 3
 
performance measure for the Company's current core business and future outlook and for comparison with our business plan, historical gross margin results and the gross margin results of the Company's competitors. Management believes each of these non-GAAP measures provides useful supplemental information for investors, allowing greater transparency to the information used by management in its operational decision making and in the review of the Company's financial and operational performance, as well as facilitating meaningful comparisons of the Company's results in the current period compared with those in prior and future periods. A reconciliation of each available GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached exhibits and on the Teradyne website at www.teradyne.com by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
About Teradyne
Teradyne (NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. In 2009, Teradyne had sales of $819 million. For more information, visit www.teradyne.com. Teradyne(R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries. All product names are trademarks of Teradyne, Inc. (including its subsidiaries) or their respective owners.
Safe Harbor Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding future business prospects, Teradyne's results of operations and market conditions. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees of future performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of Teradyne's future results or other forward looking statements will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: conditions affecting the markets in which Teradyne operates; decreased product demand; delays in new product introductions; lack of customer acceptance of new products; unanticipated delays in or costs and expenses relating to the implementation of cost reduction plans; and other events, factors and risks disclosed in filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, the "Risk Factors" section of Teradyne's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 4, 2009. The forward-looking statements provided by Teradyne in this press release represent management's views as of the date of this release. Teradyne anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause management's views to change. However, while Teradyne may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Teradyne specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Teradyne's views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR FOURTH FISCAL QUARTER OF 2009
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
 
For information on possible dilution related to the convertible note, investors should access Teradyne's website at www. teradyne.com and click on "Investors" and then select the "Financial Data" link.
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage at http://www.teradyne.com.
 


