FILE:TER/TER-8K-20111222153658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 6, 2011, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") filed a Current Report on Form 8-K (the "Initial Form 8-K") reporting its acquisition of LitePoint Corporation ("LitePoint"). This Amendment No. 1 to the Initial Form 8-K amends and supplements the Initial Form 8-K to include financial statements and pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(a) and Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
The following unaudited interim consolidated financial statements of LitePoint and the related report of its independent accountants are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference:
LitePoint Corporation consolidated financial statements as of June 30, 2011 and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010.
The following audited consolidated financial statements of LitePoint and the related report of its independent auditors are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference:
LitePoint Corporation consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2010, and for the year ended December 31, 2010.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet of Teradyne as of July 3, 2011 and unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 and for the six months ended July 3, 2011 and the notes to such unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 15.1
Re: Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-158282) and Form S-8 (Nos. 333-177246; 333-159723; 333-155564; 333-149017; 333-143231; 333-134519; 333-116632; 333-101983; 333-73700; 333-68074; 333-56373; 333-32547; 333-26045; 333-07177; 033-55123; and 33-42352)
With respect to the subject registration statement, we acknowledge our awareness of the use therein of our report dated October 5, 2011 related to our review of the consolidated balance sheet of LitePoint Corporation and subsidiaries as of June 30, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2011, and consolidated statements of income and cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2010.
Pursuant to Rule 436 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Act), such report is not considered part of a registration statement prepared or certified by an independent auditor, or a report prepared or certified by an independent auditor within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of the Act.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Santa Clara, California
December 22, 2011

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-158282) and Form S-8 (Nos. 333-177246; 333-159723; 333-155564; 333-149017; 333-143231; 333-134519; 333-116632; 333-101983; 333-73700; 333-68074; 333-56373; 333-32547; 333-26045; 333-07177; 033-55123; and 33-42352) of Teradyne, Inc. of our audit report dated October 5, 2011, with respect to the consolidated balance sheet of LitePoint Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the year then ended, which report appears in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Teradyne, Inc. dated December 22, 2011.
Our report dated October 5, 2011 includes an explanatory paragraph stating that LitePoint Corporation agreed to be acquired by Teradyne, Inc. on September 14, 2011.
/s/ KPMG LLP
Santa Clara, California
December 22, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
 
The Board of Directors
LitePoint Corporation:
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of LitePoint Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2010, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the year then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of LitePoint Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As disclosed in note (10) of the Consolidated Financial Statements, LitePoint Corporation agreed to be acquired by Teradyne, Inc. on September 14, 2011.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
Mountain View, California
October 5, 2011
The Board of Directors
LitePoint Corporation:
We have reviewed the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of LitePoint Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of June 30, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2011, and consolidated statements of income and cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2010. This interim financial information is the responsibility of the Company's management.
We conducted our reviews in accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. A review of interim financial information consists principally of applying analytical procedures and making inquiries of persons responsible for financial and accounting matters. It is substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, the objective of which is the expression of an opinion regarding the financial information taken as a whole. Accordingly, we do not express such an opinion.
Based on our reviews, we are not aware of any material modifications that should be made to the accompanying interim financial information for them to be in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
As disclosed in note (10) of the Consolidated Financial Statements, LitePoint Corporation agreed to be acquired by Teradyne, Inc. on September 14, 2011.
 
/s/ KPMG LLP
Mountain View, California
October 5, 2011
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
 
LitePoint Corporation (the Company) was incorporated in Delaware in April 2000. The Company designs, develops, markets, and supports advanced wireless test solutions for developers and marketers of branded wireless products worldwide.
 
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and assumptions in reporting certain assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from those estimates.
 
The Company considers all highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less from the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash equivalents as of December 31, 2010, and June 30, 2011 (unaudited) included $12,050,802 and $5,549,089, respectively, of money market funds.
 
Short-term investments consist of highly liquid investments in marketable securities with original maturities in excess of 90 days. Investments in marketable securities with original maturities in excess of one year are classified as long term.
The Company accounts for its marketable securities as available-for-sale at the time of purchase. The marketable securities include commercial paper, corporate bonds and government securities. The Company's marketable securities are reported at fair value with the related unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders' equity. Realized gains or losses on the sale of marketable securities are determined using the specific-identification method. Unrealized losses are evaluated to determine if they are other than temporary. If the fair value of a debt security is less than its amortized cost basis, the Company assesses whether the impairment is other than temporary. An impairment is considered other than temporary if (i) the Company has the intent to sell the security, (ii) it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, or (iii) the Company does not expect to recover the entire amortized cost of the security. If an
 
 
impairment is considered other than temporary based on conditions (i) and (ii), the entire difference between the amortized cost and the fair value of the security is recognized in earnings. If an impairment is considered other than temporary based on condition (iii), the amount representing credit losses, defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis of the debt security, will be recognized in earnings and the amount relating to all other factors will be recognized in other comprehensive income. The Company evaluates both qualitative and quantitative factors such as duration and severity of the unrealized loss, credit ratings, prepayment speeds, defaults and loss rates of the underlying collateral, structure and credit enhancements to determine if a credit loss may exist. The Company had no gross realized gain or losses during the year ended December 31, 2010, and the six months ended June 30, 2010 (unaudited), and June 30, 2011 (unaudited).
 
Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not accrue interest. The allowance for doubtful accounts is the Company's best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in the Company's existing accounts receivable. The Company determines that allowance based upon a review of each receivable and all known factors that affect collectability. These factors include but are not limited to past payment performance, the financial condition of its customers, general economic or industry conditions, disputes regarding the invoiced amount or disputes regarding the product or service rendered. Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. The Company does not have any off-balance sheet credit exposure related to its customers. Certain of the Company's customers receive prompt payment discounts. The Company estimates these discounts and records a reduction to revenue and a credit to accounts receivable.
 
Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to significant concentrations of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable. Cash and cash equivalents are held with a limited number of financial institutions. Deposits held with these financial institutions may exceed the amount of insurance provided on such deposits. Management believes that the financial institutions that hold the Company's deposits are credit worthy and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists with respect to those deposits. Investments in marketable securities include a diversified portfolio of commercial paper and government agency bonds. All investments are classified as available-for-sale. The Company does not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes. If the parties to the financial instruments described above failed completely to perform according to the terms of the contracts, and other than the insurance describe above, the Company would incur a complete loss on those financial instruments.
The trade accounts receivable balance consists of a customer base that is dispersed worldwide, with a significant portion due from manufacturers of mobile devices and, to a lesser extent, distributors and resellers. Credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is concentrated due to the number of large orders recorded in any particular reporting period.
 
 
Customers that represent more than 10% of the net accounts receivable balance were as follows:
 
As of December 31, 2010, and June 30, 2011 (unaudited), approximately 33% and 60%, respectively, of total trade accounts receivable were due from foreign customers.
Customers that represent more than 10% of the net revenue were as follows:
 
Management performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers and may require collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees. The Company maintains allowances for potential credit losses, but historically has not experienced significant losses related to any particular industry or geographic area.
 
The Company has an agreement with a contract manufacturer to produce its products and provide materials, labor, and overhead. To receive the best price on materials, the Company may occasionally purchase materials to be sold to the contract manufacturer. Inventories consist of finished goods to be sold to customers and components and subassemblies used for assembly of the Company's products. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. A first-in, first-out (FIFO) method is used to value components and subassemblies, and finished goods are valued using a weighted average cost method. The Company periodically reviews the carrying value of its inventories and noncancelable purchase commitments by reviewing sales forecasts, material usage requirements, and by reviewing the impact of changes in technology on its products (including engineering design changes). These forecasts of changes in technology, future sales, and pricing are estimates. Inventory is written down to an estimated realizable value as required and charged to cost of revenues. Inventory impairment charges are considered to establish a new cost basis for inventory and are not subsequently reversed to income even if circumstances later suggest that the original carrying amounts may be recoverable, except when the associated inventory is disposed of or sold.
 
 
The Company subcontracts more than 10% of all of the manufacture, assembly and part of the testing of its products to a third-party contract manufacturer located in California in the United States. As a result of this geographic concentration, a natural disaster or other unforeseen events could result in a disruption in the manufacturing process. The Company cannot be certain that it will be able to effectively manage or retain its contract manufacturers, or that these contract manufacturers will continue to operate as a going concern or to meet its future requirements for timely delivery of products of sufficient quality and quantity. The Company and its contract manufacturers currently buy some key components of its products from a limited number of suppliers, which are manufactured by a limited number of companies. Although, the Company believes that other contract manufacturers and suppliers could provide similar services and components on comparable terms, a change in one of its key contract manufacturers or suppliers could cause a delay in manufacturing, additional cost inefficiencies and a possible loss of sales.
 
Property and equipment are stated at cost and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets of two to seven years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the useful lives of the underlying assets or the remaining lease term.
The depreciation and amortization periods for property and equipment categories are as follows:
 
 
The Company evaluates long-lived assets, such as equipment, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable based on expected undiscounted cash flows attributable to that asset or asset group. The amount of any impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired asset or asset group. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques including discounted cash flow models, quoted market values, and third-party independent appraisals, as considered necessary. There was no impairment in the year ended December 31, 2010 and for the six months ended June 30, 2011 (unaudited).
 
The Company enters into agreements to sell products (hardware and/or software), services, and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services.
The Company recognizes revenue, net of trade discounts and allowances, provided that (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the price is fixed or determinable, and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred
 
 
when title and risk of loss of products have transferred to the customer, or when the service has been provided. The Company considers the price to be fixed or determinable when the price is not subject to refund or adjustments. At the time of the transaction, the Company evaluates the creditworthiness of its customers. If any of the above criteria are not met, revenue is deferred until such criteria are met.
Product revenue is generated predominantly from the sales of various types of test equipment. Product revenue, including sales to distributors and resellers, is reduced for estimated returns, when appropriate. The Company's test equipment is sold with embedded software. It was determined that test equipment together with the embedded software function together to deliver the equipment's essential functionality and, as result, the software and nonsoftware components are considered to be a single deliverable. Product revenue accounted for approximately 97%, 97% and 95% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 and for the six months ended June 30, 2010 (unaudited), and June 30, 2011 (unaudited), respectively. Revenues from stand-alone software license sales were insignificant.
Revenue from services includes calibration and extended warranty included in the initial sale of test equipment for terms ranging from an additional one to two years. When the Company enters into arrangements that include test equipment, product maintenance contracts (calibrations) and extended warranties, revenue is allocated to the product maintenance contracts and extended warranties based on management's best estimate of the separately stated selling price for the calibrations and extended warranties. Management's best estimate of the separately stated selling price is based on pricing offers made to customers for the separate elements within the arrangement during the sales and order process and gives effect to a customer volume-based discount from list price. Revenue from calibrations and extended warranty included in the initial sales of test equipment is recognized ratably over the related service term beginning in the year following the expiration of the Company's standard warranty. The Company also sells calibrations and, to a lesser extent, extended warranties on a standalone basis. Revenue from standalone sales of calibrations is recognized when the service is performed. Service revenue accounted for approximately 3%, 3% and 5% of net revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 and for the six months ended June 30, 2010 (unaudited), and June 30, 2011 (unaudited), respectively. Amounts billed or collected in advance of the period in which the related product and service qualifies for revenue recognition are recorded as deferred revenue.
Sales taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are accounted for on a net basis and therefore are excluded from revenues in the consolidated statements of income.
From time to time the Company will enter into rebate agreements with some of its customers. The rebate amounts are recorded as a reduction of revenue in the period incurred.
 
The Company's products generally include a standard warranty for one year from the date of sale. The warranty accrual is estimated based on historical warranty claim experience. Future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of revenue. The warranty accrual is reviewed regularly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Changes in the warranty accrual balance (included in accrued liabilities) were as follows:
 
 
 
Management believes that changes to estimates for warranty accruals established in the preceding period have been immaterial.
 
Research and development costs consist primarily of compensation and related costs for personnel as well as costs related to software tools, tooling expenses, materials, supplies and equipment depreciation. All research and development costs are expensed as incurred.
 
Compensation cost is calculated on the date of grant using the fair value of stock options as determined by the Company using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The Company amortizes the compensation cost using the straight-line method over the vesting period, which is generally four years. The Black-Scholes option pricing model requires the Company to estimate key assumptions, such as expected term, volatility, and risk-free interest rates, to determine the fair value of a stock option. The estimate of these key assumptions is based on historical information and judgment regarding relevant market factors.
 
The Company considers the functional currency of its foreign operations to be the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency assets and liabilities are re-measured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates, except for nonmonetary assets and capital accounts, which are re-measured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are generally re-measured at the average monthly exchange rates. Gains and losses from foreign currency re-measurement are included in consolidated net income, and gains or losses on foreign currency transactions are recognized in other income and expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Foreign currency transaction gain and losses were a loss of $11,558 and $38,833 and a gain of $32,823 in the year ended December 31, 2010 and the six months ended June 30, 2010, (unaudited) and June 30, 2011 (unaudited), respectively.
 
 
The asset and liability method of accounting is used for income taxes. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences attributable to differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred income tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences, along with net operating loss carry forwards and credit carry forwards. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. To the extent a deferred income tax asset cannot be recognized under the preceding criteria, allowances are established. A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the carrying amount of deferred income tax assets if it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized.
The Company uses a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring uncertain tax positions. The first step is to determine whether it is more-likely than-not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority. The calculation of tax liabilities involves significant judgment in estimating the impact of uncertainties in the application of highly complex tax laws. Resolution of these uncertainties in a manner inconsistent with management's expectations could have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. The Company believes that it has adequately provided for reasonably foreseeable outcomes in connection with the resolution of income tax uncertainties. However, the Company's results have in the past and could in the future include adjustments to its estimated tax liabilities in the period a determination of such estimated tax liability is made or resolved, upon filing of an amended return, upon change in facts, circumstances, or interpretation, or upon the expiration of statutes of limitation. Accordingly, the effective tax rate could fluctuate materially from period to period.
 
The Company operates in one segment: the development, marketing, and sale of wireless test solutions for developers and marketers of branded wireless products.
 
In January 2010, the FASB issued updated guidance related to fair value measurements and disclosures, which requires a reporting entity to disclose separately the amounts of significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements and to describe the reasons for the transfers. In addition, in the reconciliation for fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3, a reporting entity should disclose separately information about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements (that is, on a gross basis rather than one net number). The updated guidance also requires that an entity should provide fair value measurement disclosures for each class of assets and liabilities and disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements for Level 2 and Level 3 fair value measurements. The updated guidance is effective for interim or annual financial reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures about purchases, sales, issuances and settlements in the roll forward activity in Level 3 fair value measurements, which are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010 and for interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of the updated guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
 
The carrying amounts of the Company's cash and cash equivalents approximate their respective fair values due to their relatively short maturities.
The following is a summary of the Company's investments:
 
The contractual maturities of investments held at December 31, 2010 and June 30, 2011 are as follows:
 
 
 
Estimated fair values were determined for each individual security in the investment portfolio. The declines in value of these investments are primarily related to changes in interest rates and are considered to be temporary in nature.
The following table represents the Company's investments' gross unrealized losses and fair values, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2010.
 
As of December 31, 2010, there were six out of eleven investment securities that had unrealized losses.
The following table represents the Company's investments' gross unrealized losses and fair values, aggregated by investment category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position as of June 30, 2011.
 
As of June 30, 2011 (unaudited), there were thirteen out of twenty-seven investment securities that had unrealized losses.
Substantially all the Company's available-for-sale investments are investment grade government and corporate bonds and notes. The Company does not intend to sell the investments and it is not more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell the investments before recovery of its amortized costs.
 
 
Fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value is a market-based measurement that should be determined based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. As a basis for considering such assumptions, Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820 established a three-tier value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value as follows:
 
 
 
This hierarchy requires the Company to use observable market data, when available, and to minimize the use of unobservable inputs when determining fair value.
On a recurring basis, the Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value.
The Company's financial instruments are classified within Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Level 1 financial instruments, valued based on quoted market prices in active markets, include money market securities. Level 2 financial instruments, valued based on other observable inputs, include U.S. government agencies, corporate bonds and notes. To the extent deemed necessary, the Company may also obtain nonbinding market quotes to corroborate the estimated fair values reflected in its investment brokerage/custodial statements.
The following tables represent the Company's fair value hierarchy for its financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2010 and June 30, 2011:
 
 
 
 
 
The following table summarizes the activity related to the allowance for doubtful accounts
 
 
Inventories are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Property and equipment net, consists of the following:
 
Depreciation expense for property and equipment was $836,160, $373,286 and $574,521 for the year ended December 31, 2010, and for the six months ended June 30, 2010 (unaudited), and June 30, 2011 (unaudited), respectively.
 
Accrued liabilities are as follows:
 
 
 
In 2011, the Company entered into a rebate program with one of its customers. Under the terms of the program, the Company will issue a cash rebate related to two specific orders. The rebate is earned as the orders are shipped and is payable, upon customer request, once the orders have been paid in full. As of June 30, 2011, the orders have been fulfilled for a rebate amount of $2,752,149 (unaudited). The rebate was recorded as a reduction of revenue when earned. No further amount can be earned under this program.
 
Other income (expense), net is as follows:
 
 
 
The Company leases office facilities, under noncancelable operating leases with various expiration dates through 2014. Rent expense for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the six months ended June 30, 2010 (unaudited), and June 30, 2011 (unaudited) was $1,186,019, $516,893, and $714,294, respectively. The terms of the facility leases provide for rental payments on a graduated scale. The Company recognizes rent expense on a straight-line basis over the lease period, and has accrued for rent expense incurred, but not paid.
 
 
The following table summarizes the Company's contractual obligations and estimated commercial commitments as of December 31, 2010 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on liquidity in future periods:
 
The following table summarized the Company's contractual obligations and estimated commercial commitments as of June 30, 2011 (unaudited) and the effect such obligations are expected to have on liquidity in future periods:
 
The Company has a Manufacturing Services Agreement (Agreement) with a contract manufacturer (CM). The Agreement allows the CM to procure long lead-time component inventory on the Company's behalf based upon a rolling production forecast and purchase orders provided by the Company. The Company is obligated to the purchase of long lead-time component inventory that the CM procures in accordance with the forecast and purchase orders, unless the Company gives notice of order cancellation outside of applicable component lead-times. The Company does not take ownership of inventory from the CM until the inventory is in finished product form. The CM's open commitments and inventory on hand at December 31, 2010 and June 30, 2011 (unaudited), based on the Company's forecasts and purchase orders, were valued at $13,011,315 and $31,693,793, respectively. If the Company does not honor these commitments, the Company may be liable for the contracted price of all such finished products as well as the costs of the CM's labor.
 
 
During its normal course of business, the Company has made certain indemnities, commitments and guarantees under which it may be required to make payments in relation to certain transactions. These indemnities include intellectual property indemnities to the Company's customers in connection with the sales of its products, indemnities for liabilities associated with the infringement of other parties' technology based upon the Company's products, and indemnities to various lessors in connection with facility leases for certain claims arising from such facility or lease. The duration of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees varies, and in certain cases, is indefinite. The majority of these indemnities, commitments and guarantees do not provide for any limitation of the maximum potential future payments that the Company could be obligated to make. The Company believes its internal development processes and other policies and practices limit its exposure related to the indemnification provisions of the various agreements that include indemnity provisions. In addition, the Company requires its employees to sign a proprietary information and inventions agreement, assigning the rights to its employees' development work to the Company. The Company has not recorded any liability for these indemnities, commitments and guarantees in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The Company does, however, accrue for losses for any known contingent liability, including those that may arise from indemnification provisions, when future payment is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated, in accordance with authoritative guidance.
In addition, the Company indemnifies its officers and directors under the terms of indemnity agreements entered into with them, as well as pursuant to its certificate of incorporation, bylaws and applicable Delaware law. To date, the Company has not incurred any expenses related to these indemnifications.
From time to time, the Company is a party to various legal proceedings and claims arising from the normal course of business activities. Based on current available information, the Company does not expect that the ultimate outcome of any currently pending unresolved matters, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
 
The Company has 12,000,000 shares of preferred stock authorized, which may be issued from time to time in one or more series. The board of directors is authorized to determine the designation of any series, to fix the number of shares, and to alter the rights, preferences, privileges, and the restrictions granted. As part of the recapitalization of the Company in March 2007, the Company issued 10,775,252 shares of Series A Convertible Preferred stock to a third party investor.
 
 
The rights, preferences, and privileges of the Series A convertible preferred stock of the Company are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Common stockholders are entitled to one vote per share and upon liquidation or dissolution, are entitled to receive all assets available for distribution to common stockholders. The holders of common stock are also entitled to receive dividends whenever funds are legally available and when and if declared by the board of directors, and adjusted to the dividend preference granted to the holders of Series A convertible preferred stock.
 
 
As of December 31, 2010 and June 30, 2011 (unaudited), the Company had 38,000,000 shares of common stock authorized and had reserved shares of common stock for future issuance as follows:
 
 
In April 2002, the Company adopted the 2002 Stock Option Plan (the Plan). The Plan provides for the granting of stock options to employees and consultants of the Company. Under the Plan, incentive stock options (ISO) may be granted only to Company employees, including officers and directors, while nonqualified stock options (NSO) may be granted to Company employees, directors and consultants. The Company has reserved 6,704,914 shares of common stock for issuance under the Plan.
Options under the Plan may be granted for periods of up to ten years and at prices no less than 85% of the estimated fair value of the shares on the date of grant as determined by the board of directors, provided, however, that (i) the exercise price of an ISO and NSO shall not be less than 100% and 85%, respectively, of the estimated fair value of the shares on the date of grant, respectively, and (ii) the exercise price of an ISO and NSO granted to a 10% shareholder shall not be less than 110% of the estimated fair value of the shares on the date of grant. Options generally vest over a four year period at a rate of 25% on the first anniversary of the grant date and 1/36th of the remaining options monthly afterward, and are exercisable for a maximum period of ten years after the date of grant.
 
 
Stock option activity under the Plan was as follows:
 
The weighted average grant date fair value of options granted during the year ended December 31, 2010 and the six months ended June 30, 2011 (unaudited) was $3.98, and $4.84, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended December 31, 2010 and the six months ended June 30, 2011 (unaudited) was $18,793, and $5,958, respectively.
At December 31, 2010 and June 30, 2011 (unaudited) the Company estimated fully vested options and options expected to vest to be 2,785,694 and 3,399,242 with an aggregated intrinsic value of $6,198,522 and $10,009,640 having a weighted average exercise price of $2.57 and $2.97 per share and a weighted average remaining contracted term of 6.27 and 6.5 years, respectively.
 
 
The Company estimates the fair value of each option award on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the assumptions noted in the following table. Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of a peer group of publicly traded entities. The expected term of options granted is derived from the average midpoint between the vesting period and the contractual term of the option, as described in the SEC's Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 107, . The risk-free rate for the expected term of the option is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Share-based compensation expense is reduced by estimated forfeitures based on historical experience. The assumptions used to value options granted were as follows:
Share-Based Payment
 
As of December 31, 2010 and June 30, 2011 (unaudited), there was approximately $1,680,320 and $2,665,463 of total unrecognized stock-based compensation costs related to share-based payments granted under the Company's stock-based compensation plans that will be recognized over a period of approximately three years. Future grants will add to this total, whereas amortization upon vesting of the existing grants will reduce this total.
The options outstanding and exercisable by exercise price at December 31, 2010 were as follows:
 
 
 
The options outstanding and exercisable by exercise price at June 30, 2011 (unaudited) were as follows:
 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company issued 25,000 shares of common stock to a nonemployee member of the Company's Board of Directors for settlement of services rendered in fiscal 2009 and accrued as of December 31, 2009, valued in aggregate at $66,001, or $2.64 per share.
During the six month ended June 30, 2011, (unaudited) the Company issued 20,729 shares of common stock to a nonemployee member of the Company's Board of Directors for settlement of services rendered in fiscal 2010 and accrued as of December 31, 2010, valued in aggregate at $99,499, or $4.80 per share.
 
The Company maintains a qualified 401(k) profit-sharing plan covering eligible employees meeting age requirements and length of service. The plan allows for employee salary deferrals and discretionary employer contributions. The Company is not required to contribute, nor has it contributed, to the plan for any of the periods presented.
 
Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which separate financial information is available that is evaluated regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company's chief operating decision maker is the Chief Executive Officer. The Company operates as a single operating segment and has one reportable segment.
 
 
The Company's net revenue by geography based on its customers' bill to locations is as follows:
 
Sales between geographic areas are at prices that the Company believes are at arm's length and are eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. International sales represent the combined total of export sales made by the Company's United States operations and all sales made by the Company's foreign operations.
The following is a summary of the Company's net revenue by category:
 
Identifiable long-lived assets by geography are as follows:
 
 
 
Income (loss) before income taxes is as follows (in thousands):
 
Income tax (expense)/benefit presented in the statements of operations consist of the following:
 
 
 
Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets are as follows:
 
Reconciliation between the provision for income taxes computed by applying the U.S. federal tax rate to income before income taxes and the actual provision for income taxes is as follows:
 
The Company has determined that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets are realizable in future taxable years, and as such, no valuation allowance against the deferred tax assets was deemed necessary at December 31, 2010. As December 31, 2010, the Company had no net operating loss or research and development credit carryover for federal and California respectively.
In June 2010, the Company and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) agreed on the results of an examination of the Company's federal income tax returns for the tax years 2006 and 2007. The examination resulted in immaterial adjustments to the Company 2006 and 2007 returns.
Federal income taxes have not been provided on a small portion of the unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries because such earnings are intended to be permanently reinvested. The amount of unremitted earnings as of December 31, 2010 is approximately $164,164.
 
 
There was $736,749 of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2010 that would affect income tax provision if changed. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:
 
The Company has adopted the accounting policy that interest and penalties will be classified as a component of the provision for income taxes. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately $33,246 of accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions.
The Company is subject to taxation in the U.S., various U.S. states and certain foreign jurisdictions. The Company's federal and California tax returns are subject to examination by tax authorities for tax years 2008 through 2010. The Company does not anticipate any significant changes to the unrecognized tax benefits within twelve months of this reporting date.
 
In July 2011, one of the Company's wholly owned Chinese subsidiaries adopted an Appreciation Rights Plan (the AR Plan). The AR Plan provides for the granting of cash-settled rights (Rights) based on the appreciation of the Company's common stock in excess of an exercise price set at the grant date, with maximum appreciation limited to 100 Chinese RMB per Right. The Company has limited the total number of Rights which may be granted under the AR Plan to 100,000.
Rights may be granted only to employees of the subsidiary, including its officers and directors, and to other service providers to the subsidiary, such as consultants. Rights under the Plan may be granted for periods of up to ten years. Rights generally vest over a four year period, with 25% vesting on first anniversary of the grant date, and the remainder vesting ratably, monthly over the remaining 36 months. The grants are exercisable for a maximum period of ten years after the date of grant.
In August 2011, the Company granted 36,050 Rights to certain of its Chinese employees at an exercise price of 38.19 RMB each. The Rights vest over a four year period, with 25% vesting on first anniversary of the grant date, and the remainder vesting ratably, monthly over the remaining 36 months. At each reporting date, the Company will accrue compensation expense and an offsetting liability based on the fair value of the Rights at that date, and as adjusted for expected forfeiture rates.
In July 2011, the Company entered into a one year software licensing tool agreement with a vendor for $670,000.
 
 
In September 2011, the Company issued 5,000 shares of common stock to a nonemployee member of the Company's Board of Directors for settlement of services rendered and to be rendered in fiscal 2011, valued in aggregate at $69,450 (unaudited) or $13.89 per share. 2,500 shares were for settlement of services rendered during the six month ended June 30, 2011 and accrued as of June 30, 2011 (unaudited) valued in aggregate at $34,725, or $13.89 per share.
In September 2011, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a 1,500,000 shares increase in the number of shares reserved under the 2002 Stock Option Plan. This increase is subject to shareholders' approval to be obtained within the next twelve months.
On September 14, 2011 the Company entered into a plan of merger agreement (Agreement) with Teradyne, Inc. Under the terms of the agreement, upon consummation of the merger, the Company will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Teradyne, Inc. The Company expects the merger to be consummated in October, 2011.
Management has evaluated subsequent events as they might relate to the amounts reported in these consolidated financial statements through October 5, 2011, the date the consolidated financial statements were issued.
 

Exhibit 99.2
On October 5, 2011, Teradyne completed its acquisition of LitePoint Corporation ("LitePoint") located in Sunnyvale, California, for approximately $510 million, net of LitePoint's cash and tax benefits as defined in the merger agreement, and up to $70 million, payable in cash or Teradyne's common stock at Teradyne's election, upon achievement of certain revenue-based performance targets through 2012. The acquisition was completed by acquiring all of the outstanding common and preferred stock of LitePoint. For the purpose of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, the acquisition is assumed to have occurred as of January 1, 2010 with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations and as of July 3, 2011 with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the six months ended July 3, 2011 has been derived from:
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 has been derived from:
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of July 3, 2011 has been derived from:
 
 
Because these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates of fair values attributable to the acquisition, the actual amounts recorded for the acquisition may differ materially from the information presented in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The total purchase price has been allocated on a preliminary basis to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on management's preliminary estimates of fair value, with the excess purchase price over net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired being allocated to goodwill. Definitive allocations will be performed and finalized in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Accordingly, the purchase price allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and are subject to revision based on a final determination of fair value.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations do not reflect nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition transaction. The nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition transaction include fair value of acquired inventory and deferred revenue, and investment advisory and legal costs.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial position of Teradyne that would have been reported had the acquisition and cash payment been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future results of operations or financial position of Teradyne. This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The unaudited pro forma statements of operations do not reflect any operating efficiencies and cost savings that Teradyne may achieve with respect to the combined companies.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Teradyne and LitePoint included in the respective Teradyne annual report on Form 10-K and the Teradyne quarterly report on Form 10-Q and the attached LitePoint financial statements in Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. BASIS OF PRO FORMA PRESENTATION
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are based on the historical financial statements of Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") and LitePoint Corporation ("LitePoint") after giving effect to Teradyne's acquisition of LitePoint, divestiture of Diagnostic Solutions and the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. Teradyne acquired all of the outstanding common and preferred stock of LitePoint on October 5, 2011.
For the purpose of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, the acquisition is assumed to have occurred as of January 1, 2010 with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations and as of July 3, 2011 with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the six months ended July 3, 2011 has been derived from:
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010 has been derived from:
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of July 3, 2011 has been derived from:
 
 
Because these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates of fair values attributable to the LitePoint acquisition, the actual amounts recorded for the acquisition may differ materially from the information presented in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The total purchase price has been allocated on a preliminary basis to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on management's preliminary estimates of fair value, with the excess purchase price over net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired being allocated to goodwill. Definitive allocations will be performed and finalized in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Accordingly, the purchase price allocation pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been made solely for the purpose of providing unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information and are subject to revision based on a final determination of fair value.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations do not reflect nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition transaction. The nonrecurring charges resulting from the acquisition transaction include fair value of acquired inventory and deferred revenue, and investment advisory and legal costs.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial position of Teradyne that would have been reported had the acquisitions and cash payments been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future results of operations or financial position of Teradyne. This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. The unaudited pro forma statements of operations do not reflect any operating efficiencies and cost savings that Teradyne may achieve with respect to the combined companies.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Teradyne and LitePoint included in the respective Teradyne annual report on Form 10-K and the Teradyne quarterly report on Form 10-Q and attached LitePoint financial statements in Exhibit 99.1.
 
2. DIAGNOSTIC SOLUTIONS DIVESTITURE
On March 21, 2011, Teradyne completed the sale of its Diagnostic Solutions business unit, which was included in the Systems Test Group segment, to SPX Corporation for $40.2 million in cash. Teradyne sold this business as its growth potential as a stand-alone business was significantly less than if it was part of a larger automotive supplier. The results of Diagnostic Solutions were classified as discontinued operations and the historical results of Diagnostic Solutions for the year ended December 31, 2010 are removed with pro forma adjustments.
3. LITEPOINT ACQUISITION
On October 5, 2011, Teradyne completed its acquisition of LitePoint for approximately $510 million, net of LitePoint's cash and tax benefits as defined in the merger agreement, and up to $70 million, payable in cash or Teradyne's common stock at Teradyne's election, upon achievement of certain revenue-based performance targets through 2012. LitePoint designs, develops, and supports advanced wireless test solutions for the development and manufacturing of wireless devices, including smart phones, tablets, notebooks/laptops, personal computer peripherals, and other Wi-Fi enabled devices.
This acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination using purchase accounting. The total purchase price of $646.1 million was comprised of (in thousands):
 
The fair value of stock options was estimated using the following weighted average assumptions:
 
Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation
The preliminary allocation of the total LitePoint purchase price to all tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed was based on their estimated fair value as of October 5, 2011. Adjustments to these estimates will be included in the final allocation of the purchase price of LitePoint, which changes could be material. The purchase price allocation is preliminary pending the final determination of the fair value of certain assumed assets and liabilities. Teradyne expects to finalize the purchase price allocation in the first quarter of fiscal 2012. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on these estimates. The excess of the purchase price over the identifiable intangible and net tangible assets was allocated to goodwill. The total purchase price of $646.1 million has been allocated as follows (in thousands):
 
Other intangible assets
Teradyne has estimated the fair value of other intangible assets using the income and cost approaches to value these identifiable intangible assets which are subject to amortization. These estimates are based on a preliminary valuation and are subject to change, which changes could be material. Acquired intangible assets, other than goodwill, will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The following table sets forth the components of these other intangible assets and their estimated useful lives at October 5, 2011 (in thousands):
 
 
 
Tangible assets and liabilities
Tangible assets were recorded at their respective carrying amounts, which approximates fair value, except for inventory. Teradyne increased LitePoint's historical net carrying amount of certain inventory by $18.3 million to reflect its estimated fair value as of October 5, 2011.
Liabilities assumed have been recorded at their respective carrying amounts, which approximates fair value and the amount expected to be paid, except for deferred revenue. Deferred revenue has been reduced by $16.8 million to reflect its estimated fair value of $3.4 million as of October 5, 2011.
4. HISTORICAL INFORMATION
LitePoint's historical financial statements for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and for the year ended December 31, 2010 are derived from LitePoint's historical financial statements. Certain reclassifications have been made to these financial statements to conform to the presentation used in Teradyne's historical financial statements. Such reclassifications had no effect on LitePoint's previously reported income from continuing operations.
5. PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS
The following pro forma adjustments are included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the six months ended July 3, 2011 and the year ended December 31, 2010 and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of July 3, 2011:
A. To give effect to cash payments of $572.7 million to acquire the shares of LitePoint and pay Teradyne's acquisition-related transaction costs of $4.5 million.
B. To increase the historical carrying value of LitePoint inventories to the estimated selling prices less the cost of disposal and selling effort, including an appropriate return on sales effort.
C. To record preliminary purchase price allocation to goodwill and intangible assets as though the LitePoint acquisition had occurred on the balance sheet date. The pro forma adjustment for goodwill differs from the amount shown in Note 3 as the result of different tangible net asset balances as of July 3, 2011 (the date of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet) and October 5, 2011 (the date of the acquisition).
D. To record fair value adjustment to LitePoint's deferred revenue.
E. To record estimated fair value of contingent consideration.
F. To record deferred tax liabilities related to acquired intangible assets net of a $113.2 million reduction in Teradyne's valuation allowance, recorded as a result of the acquisition.
G. To record the following adjustments to shareholders' equity (in thousands):
 
H. Adjustment to stock based compensation for the effect of Teradyne assuming LitePoint's unvested stock options.
I. To record amortization of intangible assets acquired.
J. To record forgone interest income resulting from cash utilized in connection with the LitePoint acquisition, based on actual cash paid for the acquisition and acquisition costs, and the historical interest rate (0.4%) earned on Teradyne's cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities.
K. To record tax effects associated with the pro forma adjustments recorded in the condensed combined statements of operations on the reduction of interest income.
L. Adjustment to give effect to the impact of assumed LitePoint stock options as they would have been dilutive.
6. NONRECURRING CHARGES
The pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the six months ended July 3, 2011 and the year ended December 31, 2010 do not reflect the impact on cost of revenues of $18.3 million to reflect LitePoint's acquired inventory at fair value, the impact to reflect LitePoint's acquired deferred revenue at fair value or the impact on selling and administrative expenses of investment advisory and legal costs of $4.5 million incurred by Teradyne as a direct result of the acquisition. Under SEC rules and regulations relating to pro forma financial statements, these amounts are considered to be nonrecurring charges and are excluded from the pro forma statements of operations.
 


