FILE:TER/TER-8K-20110524155235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") held its 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 24, 2011 (the "Annual Meeting"). At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders voted on the following proposals:
1. To elect the eight nominees named in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Commission on April 14, 2011 to the Board of Directors to serve as directors for a one-year term. Each nominee for director was elected by a vote of the stockholders as follows:
 
2. To conduct an advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers. The compensation of the Company's named executive officers was approved on an advisory basis by a vote of stockholders as follows:
 
3. To conduct an advisory vote on the frequency of the stockholder advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers. The option of holding the advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers every year was approved on an advisory basis by a vote of the stockholders as follows:
 
Consistent with the stated preference of a majority of the Company's stockholders, the Board of Directors determined that it will hold an annual advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers until the next required vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on compensation of named executive officers, which will occur no later than the Company's annual meeting of stockholders in 2017.
4. To approve the material terms of the performance goals of the 2006 Equity and Cash Compensation Incentive Plan. The proposal was approved by a vote of stockholders as follows:
 
5. To ratify the selection of the firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011. The proposal was approved by a vote of stockholders as follows:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


