FILE:TER/TER-8K-20110728060658.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 27, 2011, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the second quarter ended July 3, 2011. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 July 27, 2011  (NYSE: TER) reported revenue of $411 million for the second quarter of 2011 of which $343 million was in Semiconductor Test and $68 million in Systems Test Group. On a non-GAAP basis, Teradyne's income from continuing operations in the second quarter was $101.5 million, or $0.50 per diluted share, which excluded acquired intangible asset amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest and restructuring and other charges. GAAP income from continuing operations for the second quarter was $89.9 million, or $0.39 per diluted share.
NORTH READING, Mass.
Teradyne, Inc.
Bookings in the second quarter of 2011 were $333 million of which $257 million were in Semiconductor Test and $76 million in the Systems Test Group.
"We delivered solid financial results in the second quarter marking the sixth quarter in a row of above model profitability," said Mike Bradley, Teradyne President and CEO. "We saw continued strength in Hard Disk Drive Test orders as we expand both the performance and customer base of our Neptune product line. While System on a Chip (SOC) test orders slowed substantially in the quarter, the wireless and media processor, power management, and imaging segments were the strongest, driven by both design wins and capacity expansions."
"With the softening order rate in semiconductor test dictating lower shipments in the third quarter, we're pleased to see increasing HDD test shipments offset some of that decline. While delivering lower gross margins than our other businesses, HDD test is on track to deliver model profitability on record revenues this year."
Guidance for the third quarter of 2011 is for revenue of $320 million to $340 million, with non-GAAP income from continuing operations per diluted share of $0.22 to $0.26 and GAAP income from continuing operations per diluted share of $0.15 to $0.18. Non-GAAP guidance excludes acquired intangible asset amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest and restructuring and other charges.
Webcast
A conference call to discuss the second quarter 2011 results, along with management's business outlook is scheduled at 10 a.m. EDT, Thursday, July 28. The call will be broadcast simultaneously over the Internet. Interested investors should access the webcast at and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins.
www.teradyne.com
A replay will be available approximately two hours after the completion of the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 800-642-1687. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 706-645-9291. The pass code for both numbers is 82250574. A replay will also be available on the Teradyne website at and by phone. The phone replay will be available through August 13, 2011.
www.teradyne.com
Non-GAAP Results
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain income items and charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP income from continuing operations exclude acquired intangible asset amortization, non- cash convertible debt interest, and restructuring and other, net. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining income from operations and income from continuing operations. Non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP income from continuing operations, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP income from continuing operations as a percentage of revenue, and non-GAAP income from continuing operations per share are non-GAAP measures presented to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of Teradyne's current core business or future outlook. These non-GAAP measures are used to make operational decisions, to determine employee compensation, to forecast future operational results, and for comparison with Teradyne's business plan, historical operating results and the operating results of Teradyne's competitors. Non-GAAP diluted shares include the impact of Teradyne's call option on its shares. Management believes each of these non-GAAP measures provides useful supplemental information for investors, allowing greater transparency to the information used by management in its operational decision making and in the review of Teradyne's financial and operational performance, as well as facilitating meaningful comparisons of Teradyne's results in the current period compared with those in prior and future periods. A reconciliation of each available GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached exhibits and on the Teradyne website at www.teradyne.com by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
About Teradyne
(NYSE:TER) is the leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test complex electronics used in the consumer electronics, automotive, computing, telecommunications, and aerospace and defense industries. Teradyne had 2010 sales of $1.6 billion and employs about 2,900 people worldwide. For more information, visit www.teradyne.com. Teradyne(R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries.
Teradyne
Safe Harbor Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding future business prospects, Teradyne's results of operations and market conditions. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees of future performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
 
Page 2
There can be no assurance that management's estimates of Teradyne's future results or other forward looking statements will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: conditions affecting the markets in which Teradyne operates; decreased or delayed product demand; increased competition in certain markets resulting from the merger of Advantest and Verigy; and other events, factors and risks disclosed in filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, the "Risk Factors" section of Teradyne's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended April 3, 2011. The forward-looking statements provided by Teradyne in this press release represent management's views as of the date of this release. Teradyne anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause management's views to change. However, while Teradyne may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Teradyne specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Teradyne's views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
Page 3
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR SECOND FISCAL QUARTER OF 2011
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage at http://www.teradyne.com.
Contact: Teradyne, Inc.
  Andy Blanchard 978-370-2425
  Vice President of Corporate Relations


