FILE:TER/TER-8K-20121025061135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 24, 2012, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2012. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 October 24, 2012  (NYSE: TER) reported revenue of $463 million for the third quarter of 2012 of which $310 million was in Semiconductor Test, $119 million in LitePoint Wireless Test and $34 million in Systems Test. On a non-GAAP basis, Teradyne's income from continuing operations in the third quarter was $108.4 million, or $0.53 per diluted share, which excluded acquired intangible asset amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest, and included income taxes on a cash basis. GAAP income from continuing operations for the third quarter was $88.6 million, or $0.39 per diluted share.
NORTH READING, Mass.
Teradyne, Inc.
"We delivered sales and earnings above our forecast in the third quarter driven by strong demand in the mobility market for both Semiconductor Test and LitePoint products," said Mike Bradley, President and CEO. "While the seasonal slowdown in new orders was amplified by worldwide economic concerns, we are on track to deliver full year revenue growth of 15% or more in 2012."
Bookings in the third quarter of 2012 were $231 million of which $154 million were in Semiconductor Test, $52 million in LitePoint Wireless Test and $25 million in Systems Test.
Guidance for the fourth quarter of 2012 is for revenue of $235 million to $260 million, with non-GAAP income (loss) from continuing operations per diluted share of ($0.04) to $0.05 and GAAP loss from continuing operations per diluted share of ($0.12) to ($0.05). Non-GAAP guidance excludes acquired intangible asset amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest, and includes income taxes on a cash basis.
Webcast
A conference call to discuss the third quarter of 2012 results, along with management's business outlook is scheduled at 10 a.m. EDT, Thursday, October 25, 2012. The call will be broadcast simultaneously over the Internet. Interested investors should access the webcast at and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins.
www.teradyne.com
A replay will be available approximately two hours after the completion of the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 855-859-2056. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 404-537-3406. The pass code for both numbers is 41127437. A replay will also be available on the Teradyne website . Click on "Investors" for a link to the replay. The replay will be available via phone and website through November 11, 2012.
www.teradyne.com
Non-GAAP Results
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain income items and charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP income from continuing operations exclude acquired intangible asset amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest, fair value inventory step-up related to LitePoint, pension and post retirement actuarial gains and losses, and restructuring and other net, and include income taxes on a cash basis. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining income from operations and income from continuing operations. Non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP income from continuing operations, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP income from continuing operations as a percentage of revenue, and non-GAAP income from continuing operations per share are non-GAAP measures presented to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of Teradyne's current core business or future outlook. These non-GAAP measures are used to make operational decisions, to determine employee compensation, to forecast future operational results, and for comparison with Teradyne's business plan, historical operating results and the operating results of Teradyne's competitors. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes charges related to the fair value inventory step-up recorded as part of acquisition purchase accounting and pension and post retirement actuarial gains and losses. GAAP requires that this item be included in determining gross margin. Non-GAAP gross margin dollar amount and percentage are non-GAAP measures that management believes provide useful supplemental information for management and the investor. Management uses non-GAAP gross margin as a performance measure for Teradyne's current core business and future outlook and for comparison with Teradyne's business plan, historical gross margin results and the gross margin results of Teradyne's competitors. Non-GAAP diluted shares include the impact of Teradyne's call option on its shares. Management believes each of these non-GAAP measures provides useful supplemental information for investors, allowing greater transparency to the information used by management in its operational decision making and in the review of Teradyne's financial and operational performance, as well as facilitating meaningful comparisons of Teradyne's results in the current period compared with those in prior and future periods. A reconciliation of each available GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached exhibits and on the Teradyne website at www.teradyne.com by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this press release may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
About Teradyne
(NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test semiconductors, wireless products, data storage and complex electronic systems which serve consumer, communications, industrial and government customers. In 2011, Teradyne had sales of $1.4 billion and currently employs approximately 3,600 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne(R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries.
Teradyne
www.teradyne.com
Safe Harbor Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding future business prospects, Teradyne's results of operations and market conditions. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither
promises nor guarantees of future performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of Teradyne's future results or other forward looking statements will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: conditions affecting the markets in which Teradyne operates; decreased or delayed product demand; increased research and development spending and other events, factors and risks disclosed in filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, the "Risk Factors" section of Teradyne's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 1, 2012. The forward-looking statements provided by Teradyne in this press release represent management's views as of the date of this release. Teradyne anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause management's views to change. However, while Teradyne may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Teradyne specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Teradyne's views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR THIRD FISCAL QUARTER OF 2012
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
(In millions, except per share amounts)
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage at http://www.teradyne.com.


