FILE:TER/TER-8K-20120126060502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 25, 2012, Teradyne, Inc. ("Teradyne") issued a press release regarding its financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2011. Teradyne's press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Exhibit Index
 

Exhibit 99.1
Q4'11 orders increased 57% from Q3'11, 49% excluding LitePoint which was acquired in Q4'11
Q4'11 revenue of $297 million, down 14 percent from Q3'11 and down 4 percent from Q4'10
Q4'11 diluted non-GAAP income from continuing operations of $0.16 per share, down from $0.34 per share in Q3'11 and down from $0.35 per share in Q4'10; preliminary Q4'11 diluted GAAP income from continuing operations of $0.56 per share
Q1'12 guidance: Revenue of $360 million to $400 million; Diluted non-GAAP income from continuing operations of $0.22 to $0.33 per share; Diluted GAAP income from continuing operations of $0.05 to $0.13 per share
 January 25, 2012  (NYSE: TER) reported revenue of $297 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 of which $202 million was in Semiconductor Test, $66 million in Systems Test Group and $28 million in Wireless Test. On a non-GAAP basis, Teradyne's income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter was $30.3 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, which excluded acquired intangible asset and inventory fair value amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest, and restructuring and other charges. Preliminary GAAP income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter was $125.1 million, or $0.56 per diluted share.
NORTH READING, Mass.
Teradyne, Inc.
Bookings in the fourth quarter of 2011 were $376 million of which $233 million were in Semiconductor Test, $123 million in the Systems Test Group and $19 million in Wireless Test.
For fiscal year 2011, revenue was $1.4 billion. Income from continuing operations for the year was $276.4 million or $1.39 per diluted share on a non-GAAP basis. The preliminary GAAP income from continuing operations was $337.8 million or $1.49 per diluted share. Bookings for the year were $1.4 billion.
"We saw an upturn in customer orders in our System-on-a-Chip (SOC) business and in all lines of our Systems Test Group in the fourth quarter," said Mike Bradley, President and CEO. "The new order increase was driven by very strong demand for leading-edge semiconductor testers for new mobile products and by a broadened storage test customer base. As a result we're increasing our first quarter revenue guidance. We closed 2011 with very solid operating results in both Semiconductor Test and Systems Test, and we added an exciting growth engine late in the year with the acquisition of LitePoint."
Guidance for the first quarter of 2012 is revenue of $360 million to $400 million, with non-GAAP income from continuing operations per diluted share of $0.22 to $0.33 and GAAP income from continuing operations per diluted share of $0.05 to $0.13. Non-GAAP guidance excludes acquired intangible asset and inventory fair value amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest, and restructuring and other charges.
Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance Release
As of December 31, 2011, Teradyne has determined that it is more likely than not that a significant portion of its deferred tax assets are realizable. Teradyne, accordingly, has recorded a preliminary estimate of its tax benefit for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2011. The final tax benefit could increase or decrease Teradyne's reported preliminary GAAP income from continuing operations, income from continuing operations per share, net income and net income per share for the fourth quarter and for the fiscal year 2011. The final tax benefit and its impact will be reported in Teradyne's Annual Report on Form 10K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. The final tax benefit will not impact the non-GAAP financial results presented in this press release.
Webcast
A conference call to discuss the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2011 results, along with management's business outlook is scheduled at 10 a.m. EST, Thursday, January 26, 2012. The call will be broadcast simultaneously over the Internet. Interested investors should access the webcast at and click on "Investors" at least five minutes before the call begins.
www.teradyne.com
A replay will be available approximately two hours after the completion of the call. The replay number in the U.S. & Canada is 855-859-2056. The replay number outside the U.S. & Canada is 404-537-3406. The pass code for both numbers is 42033031. A replay will also be available on the Teradyne website . Click on "Investors" for a link to the replay. The replay will be available via phone and website through February 11, 2012.
www.teradyne.com
Non-GAAP Results
In addition to disclosing results that are determined in accordance with GAAP, Teradyne also discloses non-GAAP results of operations that exclude certain income items and charges. These results are provided as a complement to results provided in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP income from continuing operations exclude acquired intangible asset amortization, non-cash convertible debt interest, fair value inventory step-up related to LitePoint, deferred tax valuation allowance release and restructuring and other, net. GAAP requires that these items be included in determining income from operations and income from continuing operations. Non-GAAP income from operations, non-GAAP income from continuing operations, non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP income from continuing operations as a percentage of revenue, and non-GAAP income from continuing operations per share are non-GAAP measures presented to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding Teradyne's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that may not be indicative of Teradyne's current core business or future outlook. These non-GAAP measures are used to make operational decisions, to determine employee compensation, to forecast future operational results, and for comparison with Teradyne's business plan, historical operating results and the operating results of Teradyne's competitors. Non-GAAP gross margin excludes, among other things, charges related to the fair value inventory step-up recorded as part of acquisition purchase accounting. GAAP requires that this item be included in determining gross margin. Non-GAAP gross margin dollar amount and percentage are non-GAAP measures that management believes provide useful supplemental information for management and the investor. Management uses non-GAAP gross margin as a performance measure for the Company's current core business and future outlook and for comparison with our business plan, historical gross margin results and the gross margin results of the Company's competitors. Non-GAAP diluted shares include the impact of Teradyne's call option on its shares. Management believes each of these non-GAAP measures provides useful supplemental information for investors, allowing greater transparency to the information used by management in its operational decision making and in the review of Teradyne's financial and operational performance, as well as facilitating meaningful comparisons of Teradyne's results in the current period compared with those in prior and future periods. A reconciliation of each available GAAP to non-GAAP financial measure discussed in this press release is contained in the attached exhibits and on the Teradyne website at www.teradyne.com by clicking on "Investors" and then selecting the "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation" link. The non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this press release may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The presentation of non-GAAP measures is not meant to be considered in isolation, as a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures or information provided in accordance with GAAP.
About Teradyne
(NYSE:TER) is a leading supplier of Automatic Test Equipment used to test semiconductors, wireless products, data storage and complex electronic systems which serve consumer, communications, industrial and government customers. In 2011, Teradyne had sales of $1.4 billion and employs approximately 3,200 people worldwide. For more information, visit . Teradyne(R) is a registered trademark of Teradyne, Inc. in the U.S. and other countries.
Teradyne
www.teradyne.com
Safe Harbor Statement
This release contains forward-looking statements regarding future business prospects, Teradyne's results of operations and market conditions. Such statements are based on the current assumptions and expectations of Teradyne's management and are neither promises nor guarantees of future performance. You can identify these forward-looking statements based on the context of the statements and by the fact that they use words such as "will," "anticipate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target" and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. There can be no assurance that management's estimates of Teradyne's future results or other forward looking statements will be achieved. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presently expected include: conditions affecting the markets in which Teradyne operates; decreased or delayed product demand; increased competition in certain markets resulting from the merger of Advantest and Verigy; the future business prospects of Teradyne's Wireless Test business unit; and other events, factors and risks disclosed in filings with the SEC, including, but not limited to, the "Risk Factors" section of Teradyne's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended October 2, 2011. The forward-looking statements provided by Teradyne in this press release represent management's views as of the date of this release. Teradyne anticipates that subsequent events and developments may cause management's views to change. However, while Teradyne may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, Teradyne specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. These forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as representing Teradyne's views as of any date subsequent to the date of this release.
 
TERADYNE, INC. REPORT FOR FOURTH FISCAL QUARTER OF 2011
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED OPERATING STATEMENTS
(In thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (In thousands)
 
 
 
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (In thousands)
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Earnings Reconciliation
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation of First Quarter 2012 guidance:
 
For press releases and other information of interest to investors, please visit Teradyne's homepage at http://www.teradyne.com.
 


