FILE:TER/TER-8K-20120529145901.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(b). Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On May 22, 2012, Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") was notified of the decision by Jeffrey R. Hotchkiss, President, Systems Test Group, to retire as an executive officer of the Company effective June 29, 2012.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Teradyne, Inc. (the "Company") held its 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 22, 2012 (the "Annual Meeting"). At the Annual Meeting, the stockholders voted on the following proposals:
1. To elect the eight nominees named in the Company's proxy statement filed with the Commission on April 12, 2012 to the Board of Directors to serve as directors for a one-year term. Each nominee for director was elected by a vote of the stockholders as follows:
 
2. To conduct an advisory vote on the compensation of the Company's named executive officers. The compensation of the Company's named executive officers was approved on an advisory basis by a vote of stockholders as follows:
 
3. To ratify the selection of the firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Company's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012. The proposal was approved by a vote of stockholders as follows:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


