FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20030422081719.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): April 22, 2003 Commission file number 1-12215 Quest Diagnostics Incorporated One Malcolm Avenue Teterboro, NJ 07608 (201) 393-5000 Delaware (State of Incorporation) 16-1387862 (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Schedules c. Exhibits 99.1 Press release of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated dated April 22, 2003. Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 9, "Regulation FD Disclosure" and Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition." On April 22, 2003, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated issued a press release announcing, among other things, its results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Signature Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. April 22, 2003 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED By: /s/ Robert A. Hagemann _____________________ Robert A. Hagemann Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Exhibit 99.1 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS REPORTS STRONG EARNINGS PER SHARE GROWTH IN FIRST QUARTER 2003 TETERBORO, N.J., APRIL 22, 2003--Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (NYSE: DGX), the nation's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, announced that for the first quarter ended March 31, 2003, net income increased to $88.0 million from $66.7 million in the first quarter of 2002. Earnings per diluted share increased 28% to $0.86 from $0.67 in 2002. The acquisition of Unilab Corporation, which was completed on February 28, 2003, contributed approximately $0.01 to earnings per share in the quarter. First quarter revenues of $1.1 billion grew 15.4% over the prior-year level, including results of Unilab for one month and American Medical Laboratories (AML), which was acquired on April 1, 2002, for the full quarter. Pro forma revenue growth was 3.2%, assuming that both Unilab and AML had been part of Quest Diagnostics since January 1, 2002. Revenue per requisition improved 3.6% compared to the prior year, driven primarily by improvements in test and payer mix. The addition of Unilab, which has lower revenue per requisition than the rest of Quest Diagnostics, reduced the reported increase by approximately 0.5%. Clinical testing volume, measured by the number of requisitions, grew approximately 12%. Pro forma testing volume declined 1%, in line with previous guidance provided on February 25, reflecting the impact of severe winter weather and the strike by New Jersey physicians during the quarter. "We generated strong performance in the first quarter. Despite challenges posed by winter storms and the physician strike, we grew earnings per share 28%," said Kenneth W. Freeman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "During the quarter we also completed the acquisition of Unilab and began the process of joining together." Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), were $199 million, or 18.2% of revenues, compared to $156 million, or 16.4% of revenues, for the prior year period. The improvement was driven by revenue growth and continued efficiencies from the company's Six Sigma and standardization initiatives. Bad debt expense improved to 5.0% of revenues from 5.8% a year ago. Days sales outstanding improved to 49 days from 52 days a year ago. Cash flow from operations for the first quarter totaled $58 million compared to $53 million in 2002. First quarter cash flow from operations is seasonally lower than other quarters of the year due to the timing of certain annual payments. For the full year 2003, earnings are expected to increase between 27% and 30% to between $4.10 and $4.20 per diluted share, before charges associated with the Unilab acquisition, compared with previous guidance of $4.10 to $4.30. Revenues are expected to grow 14% to 16%, excluding further acquisitions, which had been previously projected to contribute 2% in revenue growth. Volume is expected to grow 12% to 13%. Revenue per requisition is expected to grow 2% to 3%, and has been reduced by approximately 1% to reflect the impact of the Unilab business, which has lower revenue per requisition than the rest of Quest Diagnostics. On a pro forma basis, assuming that Unilab and AML had been part of Quest Diagnostics since January 1, 2002, volume is expected to increase 0% to 1%, a lower rate of growth than previously projected due to first quarter performance as well as continuing economic conditions. EBITDA is expected to approximate 20% of revenues. Cash flow from operations is expected to exceed $550 million. Capital expenditures are expected to be between $180 million and $190 million. 1
For the second quarter, the company is comfortable with the current consensus of analyst earnings expectations of $1.11 per diluted share, as published by Thomson First Call, before charges associated with the Unilab acquisition. Revenues are expected to grow approximately 14%, with volume growth of 11% to 12%. Revenue per requisition is expected to grow 2% to 3%, and has been reduced by approximately 1.5% to reflect the impact of the Unilab business, which has lower revenue per requisition than the rest of Quest Diagnostics. On a pro forma basis, assuming that Unilab had been part of Quest Diagnostics since January 1, 2002, volume is expected to be unchanged to down 1%, reflecting continuing economic conditions. EBITDA is expected to approximate 21% of revenues. Quest Diagnostics will hold its first quarter conference call on April 22 at 8:30 A.M. Eastern Time. To hear a simulcast of the call over the Internet or a replay, registered analysts may access StreetEvents at: www.streetevents.com, and all others may access the Quest Diagnostics website at: www.questdiagnostics.com. In addition, a replay of the call will be available from 10 A.M. on April 22 through 5 P.M. on May 31 to investors in the U.S. by dialing 888-568-0616. Investors outside the U.S. may dial 402-998-1519. No password is required for either number. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is the nation's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, providing insights that enable healthcare professionals to make decisions that improve health. The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic testing services in the United States through its national network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff. Quest Diagnostics is the leading provider of esoteric testing, including gene-based medical testing, and also empowers healthcare organizations and clinicians with state-of-the-art connectivity solutions that improve patient care. Additional company information is available at: www.questdiagnostics.com. The statements in this press release which are not historical facts or information may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and outcomes to be materially different. Certain of these risks and uncertainties may include, but are not limited to, unanticipated expenditures, changing relationships with customers, suppliers and strategic partners, conditions of the economy and other factors described in the Quest Diagnostics Incorporated 2002 Form 10-K and subsequent filings. - Table follows - 2
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Operations For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 (in millions, except per share data) 3
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets March 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 (in millions, except per share data) 4
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2003 and 2002 (in millions) 5
Notes to Financial Tables 1) Net income per common share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Potentially dilutive common shares primarily represent stock options. The following table presents net income and basic and diluted earnings per common share, had the Company elected to recognize compensation cost based on the fair value at the grant dates for stock option awards and discounts granted for stock purchases under the Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan, consistent with the method prescribed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation", as amended by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and Disclosure - an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123": The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions: 2) Other, net, which represents income for each of the periods presented, includes equity earnings from our unconsolidated joint ventures and miscellaneous gains and losses. 3) EBITDA represents income before net interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. The following table reconciles income before taxes, representing the most comparable measure under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, to EBITDA. In addition, the calculations to determine income before taxes as a percentage of net revenues and EBITDA as a percentage of net revenues are presented. EBITDA is presented and discussed because management believes it is a useful adjunct to income before taxes and other measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States since it is a meaningful measure of a company's performance and ability to meet its future debt service requirements, fund capital expenditures and meet working capital requirements. EBITDA is not a measure of financial performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered as an alternative to (i) net income (or any other measure of performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States) as a measure of performance or (ii) cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity. 6
(A) Calculated by dividing income before taxes by net revenues. (B) Calculated by dividing EBITDA by net revenues. 4) Free cash flow represents net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Free cash flow is presented because management believes it is a useful adjunct to cash flow from operating activities and other measurements under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States since it is a meaningful measure of a company's performance and ability to fund investing activities and meet its future debt service requirements. Free cash flow is not a measure of financial performance under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities as an indicator of cash flows or as a measure of liquidity. The following table reconciles net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow: 5) The following table summarizes 2003 revenue guidance originally provided by the company in January 2003, revisions to that guidance and the company's current revenue guidance. The column titled "Unilab Impact" represents management's estimate of the approximate impact of the Unilab acquisition on the company's revenues. The column titled "Other Revisions" includes the following: the impact of excluding further acquisitions of 2% from volume guidance, the impact of first quarter performance and continuing economic conditions: 7
(A) Half the volume revision (2%) represents the exclusion of future acquisitions from the guidance, with the remainder attributable to the impact of first quarter performance and continuing economic conditions. (B) Represents the favorable impact of first quarter revenue per requisition compared to original guidance, as well as projected continued favorability for the remainder of 2003. 6) The following table presents management's estimates of various financial measures for the twelve months ended December 31, 2003 and the three months ended June 30, 2003 and excludes charges associated with the Unilab acquisition. The table also reconciles estimated income before taxes to estimated EBITDA and presents the calculation of each as a percentage of net revenues: A. Calculated by dividing the mid-point of income before taxes by the mid point of net revenues. B. Calculated by dividing the mid-point of EBITDA by the mid point of net revenues. C. Represents current consensus of analyst expectations, as published by Thomson First Call. 8


