FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20041028163029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): October 28, 2004 Quest Diagnostics Incorporated One Malcolm Avenue Teterboro, NJ 07608 (201) 393-5000 1-12215 (Commission file number) Delaware (State of Incorporation) 16-1387862 (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
Item 8.01 Other Events On October 28, 2004, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it and its test kit manufacturing subsidiary, Nichols Institute Diagnostics ("NID"), each received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York. The subpoenas seek the production of various business records, including documents related to NID's FDA-cleared tests for parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits c. Exhibit 99.1 Press release issued October 28, 2004 regarding the subpoena received from the Eastern District of New York.
Signatures Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. October 28, 2004 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED By: /s/ Michael. E. Prevoznik ------------------------------ Michael E. Prevoznik Senior Vice President and General Counsel

EXHIBIT 99.1 QUEST DIAGNOSTICS RECEIVES SUBPOENAS REGARDING TEST PRODUCED BY SUBSIDIARY TETERBORO, N.J., October 28, 2004 - Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (NYSE: DGX), the nation's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, announced that it and its test kit manufacturing subsidiary, Nichols Institute Diagnostics (NID), each received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York late Monday. The subpoenas seek the production of various business records, including documents related to NID's FDA-cleared tests for parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels. Quest Diagnostics will cooperate with the government's investigation. NID manufactures and markets diagnostic test kits and systems primarily for esoteric testing. These tests are sold principally to hospitals, clinical laboratories and dialysis centers. Quest Diagnostics' revenues from sales of NID's PTH test kits and related testing are estimated to be less than 1% of consolidated revenues. Quest Diagnostics Incorporated is the nation's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, providing insights that enable healthcare professionals to make decisions that improve health. The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic testing services through its national network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff. Quest Diagnostics is the leading provider of esoteric testing, including gene-based medical testing, and provides advanced information technology solutions to improve patient care. Additional company information is available at: www.questdiagnostics.com. The statements in this press release which are not historical facts or information may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and outcomes to be materially different. Certain of these risks and uncertainties may include, but are not limited to, competitive environment, changes in government regulations, changing relationships with customers, payers, suppliers and strategic partners and other factors described in the Quest Diagnostics Incorporated 2003 Form 10-K and subsequent filings. # # #


