FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20051028165946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): October 25, 2005
 
Commission file number 001-12215
 
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
1290 Wall Street West
Lyndhurst, NJ 07071
(201) 393-5000
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
16-1387862
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Information
The Company announced the proposed offering and the pricing of its Senior Notes due 2010 and its Senior Notes due 2015 in press releases dated October 25, 2005, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS ANNOUNCES PROPOSED SENIOR NOTES OFFERING
 
LYNDHURST, N.J., Oct. 25 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (NYSE: DGX), the nation's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information, and services, announced today that it intends to offer $900,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior notes, in a private placement, subject to market and other conditions. The net proceeds of the offering are expected to be used to complete the previously announced acquisition of LabOne, Inc. (Nasdaq: LABS).
 
The notes will be guaranteed on a senior, unsecured basis, by the company's domestic clinical laboratories. The company has agreed to exchange these private notes for publicly tradable notes having substantially identical terms, and will file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to this planned exchange offer.
 
The company expects the offering will be completed by October 31, 2005. The issuance of the notes will be subject to customary closing conditions. The notes will be offered in the United States to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"). The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States without registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements.
 
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase any of these securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
 
About Quest Diagnostics
 
Quest Diagnostics is the leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services that patients and doctors need to make better healthcare decisions. The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic testing services through its national network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff. Quest Diagnostics is a pioneer in developing innovative new diagnostic tests and advanced healthcare information technology solutions that help improve patient care. Additional company information is available at: http://www.questdiagnostics.com.
 
The statements in this press release which are not historical facts or information may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and outcomes to be materially different. Certain of these risks and uncertainties may include, but are not limited to, competitive environment, changes in government regulations, changing relationships with customers, payers, suppliers and strategic partners and other factors described in the Quest Diagnostics Incorporated 2004 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
 
SOURCE Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
 
 
 
 
CONTACT:
Investors: Laure Park, +1-201-393-5030, or
Media: Gary Samuels +1-201-393-5700,
both of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS ANNOUNCES PRICING OF SENIOR NOTES
LYNDHURST, N.J., Oct. 25 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/ -- Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (NYSE: DGX), the nation's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information, and services, announced today that it priced $900 million in aggregate principal amount of senior notes in a private placement. The notes were sold in two tranches, as follows: $400 million of 5.125% senior notes due 2010 and $500 million of 5.45% senior notes due 2015. The offering is expected to close on October 31, 2005. The net proceeds of the offering are expected to be used to complete the previously announced acquisition of LabOne, Inc. (Nasdaq: LABS).
The notes are guaranteed on a senior, unsecured basis, by the company's domestic clinical laboratories. The company has agreed to exchange these private notes for publicly tradable notes having substantially identical terms, and will file a registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to this planned exchange offer.
The issuance of the notes will be subject to customary closing conditions. The notes were offered in the United States to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"). The notes have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold in the United States without registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase any of these securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful.
About Quest Diagnostics
Quest Diagnostics is the leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services that patients and doctors need to make better healthcare decisions. The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic testing services through its national network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff. Quest Diagnostics is a pioneer in developing innovative new diagnostic tests and advanced healthcare information technology solutions that help improve patient care. Additional company information is available at: http://www.questdiagnostics.com.
The statements in this press release which are not historical facts or information may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and outcomes to be materially different. Certain of these risks and uncertainties may include, but are not limited to, competitive environment, changes in government regulations, changing relationships with customers, payers, suppliers and strategic partners and other factors described in the Quest Diagnostics Incorporated 2004 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.
SOURCE Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
CONTACT:
Investors, Laure Park, +1-201-393-5030; or
Media: Gary Samuels +1-201-393-5700;
both of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
 
 
 
 


