FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20061018162054.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): October 12, 2006
 
Commission file number 001-12215
 
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
1290 Wall Street West
Lyndhurst, NJ 07071
(201) 393-5000
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
16-1387862
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
     
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Amendment and Restatement of the Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors
. On October 12, 2006, the Board of Directors approved the amendment of the Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors (the "Deferred Compensation Plan") of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated ("Quest Diagnostics").
 
Under the Deferred Compensation Plan, each non-employee director may elect to defer, until a date specified by him or her or until his or her termination of service as a director, receipt of all or a portion of his or her cash compensation. Cash amounts deferred may be allocated to (1) a cash account under which amounts deferred may earn interest, compounded quarterly, at the base rate of Citibank, N.A. in effect on certain specified dates, (2) a market value account, the value of which will be based upon the market value of Quest Diagnostics' common stock from time to time, or (3) a combination of such accounts. The amendment permits directors to defer certain stock grants made pursuant to the Director Long-Term Incentive Plan (which was approved by stockholders at the annual meeting held on May 10, 2005). The amendment also makes some changes intended to comply with new federal income tax provisions governing the timing and scope of elections to defer compensation
 
The foregoing description of the Deferred Compensation Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Deferred Compensation Plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is incorporated by reference.
 
 
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN
FOR DIRECTORS
 
(As amended as of October 12, 2006)
 
 
The effective date of the Plan is January 1, 1997.
 
 
Any Director of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Corporation") who is not an officer or employee of the Corporation or a subsidiary thereof is eligible to participate in the Plan.
 
 
There shall be established for each participant a deferred compensation account or accounts in the participant's name.
 
 
(a)
          
Cash Compensation
. A participant may elect to defer receipt, for any calendar year, all or any portion of the cash compensation payable to the participant for serving on the Board of Directors of the Corporation and Committees of the Board of Directors.
 
(b)
          
A deferral election may also be made in respect of all or any portion of any Stock Awards (as such term is defined in the Corporation's Long-Term Incentive Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Incentive Plan")) granted to the participant under the Incentive Plan for serving on the Board of Directors of the Corporation and Committees of the Board of Directors. No deferral may be made with respect to stock options granted under the Incentive Plan.
Stock Awards.
 
 
(a)
General
. A participant may designate, in increments of 10%, the cash compensation to be deferred or cash compensation already deferred to be allocated to a cash account and a market value account or any combination of such accounts. Any such designation may be made no later than the 15th day of December of any calendar year to be effective on the January 1 following such notification.
 
(b)
          
Cash Account
. The amount, if any, in the participant's deferred compensation cash account shall be credited with interest, to be compounded quarterly, calculated for each calendar quarter at a rate equal to the prime rate of Citibank, N.A. in effect on the first date of such calendar quarter.
 
(c)
          
Market Value Account.
The amount, if any, in or allocated to the participant's deferred compensation market value account on each date compensation would have been paid in accordance with the Corporation's normal practice but for the election to defer shall be expressed in units, the number of which shall be equal to such amount divided by the closing price of shares of the Corporation's Common Stock as reported in The Wall Street Journal (hereinafter referred to as "Market Value") on such date or on the trading day next preceding such date if such date is not a trading day. On each date that the Corporation pays a regular cash dividend on shares of its Common Stock outstanding, the participant's market value account shall be credited with a number of units equal to the amount of such dividend per share multiplied by the number of units in the participant's account on such date divided by the Market Value on such dividend date or on the trading day next preceding such date if the dividend payment date is not a trading day. The value of the units in the participant's market value account on any given date shall be determined by reference to the Market Value on such date. All units in the market value account shall be rounded to the nearest 0.01 of a whole share of the Corporation's Common Stock.
 
(d)
          
Re-allocation between Cash Account and Market Value Account
. A participant may re-allocate the manner (i.e., between the cash account and market value account) in which future cash compensation is to be deferred by notice given no later than 45 days prior to the date that cash compensation would otherwise have been paid. In addition, a participant may re-allocate any balances held in the cash account to the market value account (or any balances held in the market value account to the cash account) as of the last day of a calendar quarter by notice given no later than 45 days prior to the last date of such calendar quarter. In such event, the value of the units in the participant's market value account shall be determined by reference to the Market Value on the last day of such calendar quarter or on the trading day next preceding such date if such date is not a trading day.
 
(e)
          
Stock Awards
. A participant may designate, in increments of 10%, the Stock Awards to be deferred and credited to the participant's stock award account. Any such designation must be made no later than the 15th day of December of any calendar year, to be effective with respect to Stock Awards granted in the following calendar year. On each date that the Corporation pays a regular cash dividend on shares of its Common Stock outstanding, the participant's cash account shall be credited with the amount of such dividend.
 
(f)
           
Recapitalization.
The number of units in the participant's market value account and the number of Stock Awards in the participant's stock award account shall be proportionally adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock of the Corporation resulting from a subdivision or consolidation of shares or other capital adjustment, or the payment of a stock dividend or other increase or decrease in such shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Corporation, or any distribution or spin-off of assets (other than cash) to the stockholders of the Corporation.
 
2
 
 
 
A participant may elect to defer receipt of compensation either (a) until a specified year in the future or (b) until the participant's termination of service as a Director of the Corporation or (c) on the first to occur of (a) or (b). If alternative (a) is elected, actual payment will be made or will commence on the first business day of the year specified or as soon as practicable thereafter. If alternative (b) is elected, payment will be made or will commence on the first day of the calendar month after the participant terminated services as a Director of the Corporation or as soon thereafter as practicable. If alternative (c) is selected, payment will be made as applicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Stock Awards in the participant's stock award account shall be distributed until (and in such case as soon as practicable after) the Stock Award has vested in accordance with the terms of the Incentive Plan.
 
 
A participant may elect to receive the cash compensation deferred under the Plan in either (a) a lump sum or (b) a number of annual installments as specified by the participant. All amounts credited to the participant's cash and market value accounts shall be paid in cash. Cash payments from the participant's market value account will be determined based on the Market Value on the last trading date preceding the date of payment. All Stock Awards deferred under the Plan shall be paid in Common Stock of the Corporation. In the case of any election to receive Stock Awards in installments, the distributions shall be based on the aggregate number of Stock Awards deferred (as opposed to the Market Value of the Stock Awards as of the date any installment is due).
 
 
In the event that a participant dies or becomes totally and permanently disabled prior to receipt of any or all of the amounts payable to the participant pursuant to the Plan, any amounts remaining in the participant's deferred compensation account may be paid to his/her estate or personal representative in a lump sum within sixty (60) days (or in the case of Stock Awards, in Common Stock) following the Corporation's notification of the participant's death or disability.
 
 
An election to defer compensation may be made by a new nominee for election as a Director prior to, or concurrently with the nominee's election for, the term for which the nominee is being elected; and may be made by a person then currently serving as a Director for the next calendar year no later than the 15 day of December preceding such year.
th
 
 
A participant may elect to defer compensation by giving written notice to the Secretary of the Corporation on a form provided by the Corporation, which notice shall include the amount to be
 
3
 
deferred, the accounts to which such amounts are to be allocated and the percentage (in increments of 10%) of such amounts to be allocated to each account, the period of deferral, and the form of payment, including the number of installments, if applicable.
 
 
An election to defer compensation shall be irrevocable once the calendar year to which it applies has commenced, and may be revoked or modified only upon demonstration of substantial and prolonged hardship and with the concurrence of the Chairman of the Board of the Corporation. Any election shall, once effective and unless otherwise specified, apply to future calendar years. An election may be revoked or modified with respect to any future calendar year by notifying the Secretary of the Corporation in writing at least fifteen (15) days prior to the commencement of such calendar year.
 
 
The right of any participant to receive future payments under the provisions of the Plan shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Corporation. No participant shall have any rights of a shareholder of the Corporation in connection with any amounts credited to his accounts under the Plan until actual delivery of shares of Common Stock of the Corporation pursuant to the Plan.
 
 
Statements will be sent to each participant within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter as to the value of the participant's deferred compensation accounts as of the end of the preceding calendar quarter.
 
 
No right to receive payments hereunder shall be transferable or assignable by a participant, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. The participant may not sell, assign, transfer, pledge or otherwise encumber any interest in the participant's deferred compensation account and any attempt to do so shall be void against, and shall not be recognized by, the Corporation.
 
 
The Plan shall be administered by the Secretary and the General Counsel of the Corporation (the "Administrator"), who together shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations for carrying out the Plan. The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have the authority to interpret, construe and implement the provisions of the Plan.
 
 
4
 
 
The Plan may at any time or from time to time be amended, modified or terminated by the Corporation. No amendment, modification or termination shall, without the consent of the participant, adversely affect accruals in such participant's deferred compensation account.
 
5
 
 
 
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED
 
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN FOR DIRECTORS
 
.
Secretary
 
In accordance with the terms of the Deferred Compensation Plan for Directors (the "Plan"), I hereby elect to defer compensation to be earned by me in the future as a Director of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Corporation") as indicated below:
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
I understand that in the event of my death or total and permanent disability prior to receipt of all amounts payable to me pursuant to the Plan, the balance shown in my Deferred Compensation Account may be paid to my estate or to my personal representative in a lump sum (or in the case of Stock Awards, in a single issuance of Common Stock of Quest Diagnostics).
 
I understand that an election to defer compensation shall be irrevocable once the calendar year to which it applies has commenced, and may be revoked or modified only upon demonstration of substantial and prolonged hardship and with the concurrence of the Chairman of the Board of Quest Diagnostics Incorporated. I further understand that an election may be revoked or modified with respect to any future calendar year(s) by notifying the Secretary of the Corporation in writing at least fifteen (15) days prior to the commencement of such calendar year.
 
 
 
 
7
 
 


