FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20060117082327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K/A
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported): October 31, 2005
 
Commission file number 001-12215
 
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
1290 Wall Street West
Lyndhurst, NJ 07071
(201) 393-5000
 
Delaware
(State of Incorporation)
 
16-1387862
(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
 
 
 
 
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated hereby amends Item 2.01 of its Current Report on Form 8-K (Date of Report: October 31, 2005) as follows:
 
The financial statements and proforma combined financial information required to be filed pursuant to Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X and Article 11 of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are included in this current report on Form 8-K under Item 9.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED
 
 
Robert A. Hagemann
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Board of Directors and Stockholders Lab
One
, Inc.:
      
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lab
One
, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.
      
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
      
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Lab
One
, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
      
We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB, the effectiveness of Lab
One
's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2004, based on criteria established in
Internal ControlIntegrated Framework
, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 11, 2005 expressed an unqualified opinion on management's assessment of, and the effective operation of, internal control over financial reporting.
KPMG LLP
Kansas City, Missouri March 11, 2005
(1) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
Description of Business
      
Lab
One
, Inc. (Lab
One
 or the Company) is a diagnostic services provider. The services and information Lab
One
and its subsidiaries provide include: risk assessment information services for the insurance industry; diagnostic healthcare testing; and substance abuse testing services and related employee qualification products.
Principles of Consolidation
      
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Lab
One
and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements
      
The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Revenue Recognition
      
The Company recognizes revenues for its services when those services are provided to the customer. Revenues related to clinical healthcare billings include adjustments for revenue disallowances estimated at the time the revenue is recorded. These revenue disallowances represent contractual adjustments which reflect the difference between gross charges billed and the amounts that third-party payers such as managed care organizations are contractually required to pay for laboratory services.
Concentration of Business Risk
      
One risk assessment customer comprised 8%, 10% and 12% of total sales for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company has a contract with this customer for a ten-year period ending in 2010 that the customer may terminate prior to expiration if the Company encounters service level failures that materially impact the services provided.
Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
      
Fair value of cash and cash equivalents, receivables and payables approximates carrying value due to the short-term nature of these instruments.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
      
Cash and cash equivalents consist of demand deposits in banks, marketable securities with maturities of three months or less, money market investments and overnight investments that are stated at cost, which approximates market value.
Accounts Receivable
      
Accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. The allowance for doubtful accounts is the Company's best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in the Company's existing accounts receivable. The estimate of the allowance for doubtful
accounts involves a standardized monthly review of the collectibility of receivables based on contractual obligations and the aging of accounts receivable. Account balances are charged off against the allowance after all means of collection have been exhausted and the potential for recovery is considered remote. The Company does not have any off-balance sheet credit exposure related to its customers.
Inventories
      
Inventories consist of laboratory supplies, completed specimen collection kits for sale to clients and various materials used in the assembly of specimen collection kits. Inventory is valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market.
Property, Plant and Equipment
      
Additions to property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, which includes interest capitalized during construction. Facilities leased pursuant to revenue bond financing transactions are accounted for as purchases, with the cost of the leased property included in property, plant and equipment and the related obligation included in long-term debt.
      
Depreciation and amortization are computed using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:
Software Developed for Internal Use
      
Certain internal and external costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining software for internal use are capitalized in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' Statement of Position 98-1,
Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.
These capitalized costs are included in property, plant and equipment and are subject to amortization over their estimated useful lives, beginning when the software project is put in service. The Company periodically reviews the estimated remaining useful lives and carrying values of its capitalized software and makes adjustments if necessary.
Cost of Borrowings
      
Costs directly related to the issuance of debt are deferred and amortized over the period the debt is expected to be outstanding using the interest method. Unamortized costs of $3,989,000 and $883,000 as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively, are included in other long-term assets.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
      
Goodwill represents the excess of costs over fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. The Company applies the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141,
Business Combinations
, and SFAS No. 142,
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
. Goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 142. In addition, SFAS No. 142 requires that intangible assets with estimable useful lives be amortized
over their useful lives to their estimated residual values and reviewed for impairment in accordance with SFAS No. 144,
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
.
      
SFAS No. 142 requires the Company to perform an annual assessment of whether there is an indication that goodwill is impaired. To accomplish this, the Company is required to identify its reporting units and determine the carrying value of each reporting unit by assigning the assets and liabilities, including the existing goodwill and intangible assets, to those reporting units. The Company is required to determine the fair value of each reporting unit and compare it to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. The fair value of the reporting units exceeded the carrying amount based on the Company's analysis and the Company was not required to recognize an impairment loss in 2004, 2003 or 2002.
Impairment of Long-lived Assets
      
In accordance with SFAS No. 144, long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, and purchased intangibles subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset.
Income Taxes
      
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
Stock Option Plans
      
The Company applies the intrinsic-value based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
, and related interpretations including FASB Interpretation No. 44,
Accounting for Certain Transactions involving Stock Compensation, an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25
, to account for its fixed-plan stock options. Under this method, compensation expense is recorded on the date of grant only if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price. SFAS No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
, as amended by SFAS No. 148,
Accounting for Stock-Based CompensationTransition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No 123
, established accounting and disclosure requirements using a fair-value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation plans. As allowed by SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, the Company has elected to continue to apply the intrinsic-value based method of accounting described above and has adopted only the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123.
      
The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings if the fair-value based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested options in each period.
      
The weighted average per share fair value of stock options granted during 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $12.80, $11.20 and $10.87, respectively, on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions:
Earnings Per Share
      
Basic earnings per share is computed using net earnings available to common shareholders divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share includes the effects of outstanding stock options and common shares issuable upon conversion of convertible preferred stock and convertible senior debentures, if dilutive. In addition, the related preferred stock dividends are added back to income since they would not be paid if the preferred stock were converted to common stock. There was no dilutive effect of conversion of the debentures as the market price of Lab
One
common stock was below the conversion price, and the par value of the debentures would be settled in cash. Subject to adjustment under certain circumstances as described in the terms of the convertible debentures, the conversion obligation is generally based upon the product of the conversion rate then in effect (25.4463 as of December 31, 2004) and the closing price of Lab
One
common stock over the measurement period. Should the debentures become convertible under the terms of the conversion rights with a stock price of $51.09 (130% of the conversion price) over the measurement period, the conversion obligation would be approximately $1,300 (25.4463 x $51.09), and the settlement upon conversion would consist of $1,000 cash and 5.87 shares ($300/$51.09) of common stock, per $1,000 principal amount of debentures converted, assuming none of the adjustment provisions in the debenture applied to such calculation.
      
The following table reconciles the weighted average common shares used in the basic earnings per share calculation and the weighted average common shares and common share equivalents used in the diluted earnings per share calculation:
Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Standards
      
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R which requires the measurement of all employee share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in the consolidated statements of income. The accounting provisions of SFAS 123R are effective for reporting periods beginning after June 15, 2005. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition.
      
In September, 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the EITF) reached a conclusion on EITF Issue No. 04-8 The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings Per Share. Contingently convertible debt instruments (Co-Cos) are subject to the if-converted method under SFAS No. 128, Earnings Per Share (SFAS No. 128), regardless of whether a stock price-related conversion contingency included in the instrument has been met. Under prior interpretations of SFAS No. 128, issuers of Co-Cos exclude the potential common shares underlying the Co-Cos from the calculation of diluted earnings per share until the market price or other contingency is met. The effective date of EITF 04-8 is for periods ending after December 15, 2004. The Company accounts for the debentures in accordance with the EITF. As of December 31, 2004, there was no dilutive effect of conversion of the debentures as the market price of Lab
One
common stock was below the conversion price, and the par value of the debentures would be settled in cash.
Reclassifications
      
Certain amounts in the prior year consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
(2) Acquisitions
2004 Acquisitions
      
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for businesses acquired during 2004:
Laboratory Operations of The Health Alliance
      
On January 4, 2004, the Company acquired, for cash, substantially all of the assets associated with the core laboratory operations of The Health Alliance of Greater Cincinnati (the Health Alliance) for $43,936,000, including transaction and other costs of $1,586,000. The core laboratory operations acquired provide outreach laboratory testing services for physicians in the Greater Cincinnati area and reference laboratory for the six hospitals affiliated with the Health Alliance. In connection with the acquisition, the Company entered into a long-term service agreement for the Company to provide reference testing for the Health Alliance hospitals and management of their six immediate response laboratories.
      
Goodwill of $29,490,000, including workforce in place, was assigned to the clinicalhealthcare services segment and is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The amortization periods for the intangible assets acquired are: non compete and non solicitation agreement10.0 years; customer contract5.0 years; and customer relationships10.0 years.
Northwest Toxicology
      
On March 1, 2004, the Company acquired, for cash, substantially all of the net assets of the drug testing division, Northwest Toxicology, from NWT Inc. for $12,241,000, which included transaction costs of $82,000 and the purchase of $2,662,000 in net working capital. The acquisition resulted in additional urine and oral fluid testing volumes directed to Lab
One
's Lenexa, Kansas laboratory, and furthers the Company's capabilities to include drugs of abuse testing in blood, expanded specimen validity testing, medical professional and other esoteric drug testing.
      
Goodwill of $7,506,000, including workforce in place, was assigned to the clinicalsubstance abuse testing segment and is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The amortization periods
for the intangible assets acquired are: non compete and non solicitation agreement10.0 years and customer relationships10.0 years.
Paramedical Service Providers
      
During 2004, the Company acquired, for cash, five paramedical service provider companies in the United States and one paramedical service provider company in Canada. The acquired businesses provide paramedical examinations that are used to assist life insurance companies in objectively evaluating the mortality and morbidity risks posed by policy applicants.
      
Goodwill of $1,562,000 was assigned to the risk assessment services segment and is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. The weighted average amortization periods for the non compete and non solicitation agreements and customer relationships are 10.0 years and 8.7 years, respectively.
2003 Acquisitions
      
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for businesses acquired during 2003:
ScanTech
      
On August 6, 2003, the Company acquired, for cash, ScanTech Solutions, L.L.C. (ScanTech) from Protective Life Corporation. ScanTech is a leading provider of medical record retrieval services to life insurance carriers in the United States. In connection with the acquisition, the Company entered into long-term agreements to provide certain Protective Life affiliates with teleunderwriting, paramedical examination, laboratory testing and medical record retrieval services.
      
The amortization periods for the intangible assets acquired are: non compete and non solicitation agreement5.0 years; customer contract5.0 years; and customer relationships5.0 years.
Lab Acquisition
      
On October 10, 2003, the Company acquired, for cash, the insurance testing laboratory of MetLife, Inc. In connection with the acquisition, the Company entered into a long-term agreement to provide laboratory testing services to MetLife, Inc. and its affiliated entities.
      
Goodwill of $800,000 was assigned to the risk assessment services segment. The amortization period for the customer contract is 6.0 years.
Paramedical Service Providers
      
During 2003, the Company acquired, for cash, three paramedical service companies in the United States. The acquired businesses provide paramedical examinations that are used to assist life insurance companies in objectively evaluating the mortality and morbidity risks posed by policy applicants.
      
Goodwill of $1,828,000 was assigned to the risk assessment services segment. The weighted average amortization periods for the non compete and non solicitation agreements and customer relationships are 4.9 years and 5.0 years, respectively.
2002 Acquisitions
      
The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed for businesses acquired during 2002:
Central Plains Laboratories
      
On December 1, 2002, the Company acquired Central Plains Laboratories, L.L.C. (CPL) located in Hays, Kansas. HMC Services Corporation owned a 70% limited liability company interest and PCS Laboratory Services Group, Inc. (PCS) owned a 30% limited liability company interest in CPL, constituting all of the issued and outstanding ownership interests of CPL. Pursuant to the Stock and Limited Liability Company Interest Purchase Agreement, the Company purchased
all of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of HMC Services Corporation from Hays Medical Center and purchased the remaining 30% limited liability company interest in CPL from PCS. The purchase price was $12,584,000 and transaction costs were $59,000. As a result of the transaction, CPL became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
      
Goodwill of $9,371,000 was assigned to the clinicalhealthcare services segment. The weighted average amortization periods for the intangible assets acquired are: non compete and non solicitation agreement6.7 years; customer contract5.0 years; and customer relationships10.0 years.
      
The agreement also provides for the payment of contingent consideration during each of the following two years based on a percentage of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of CPL, as defined. The 2004 and 2003 contingent consideration was $255,000 and $127,000, respectively, and has been recorded as additional goodwill.
      
CPL owns two laboratory facilities, a clinical laboratory facility and an anatomic pathology laboratory facility. Hays Medical Center has the right to repurchase the assets of the facilities (both individually or combined) if either (1) the Laboratory Services Agreement between CPL and Hays Medical Center is terminated due to certain events or (2) at any time after December 1, 2004. The purchase price for the assets is an amount equal to the net book value of the tangible assets of the facility on the day prior to the closing of the sale.
Paramedical Service Providers
      
During 2002, the Company acquired ten paramedical service companies in the United States. The acquired businesses provide paramedical examinations that are used to assist life insurance companies in objectively evaluating the mortality and morbidity risks posed by policy applicants.
      
Goodwill of $4,830,000 was assigned to the risk assessment services segment. The weighted average amortization periods for the non compete and non solicitation agreements are 4.6 years.
      
All of the above acquisitions have been accounted for under the purchase method and, accordingly, the operating results of the acquired companies have been included in the consolidated statements of operations from the dates of acquisition. Certain of these acquisitions are subject to contingent payment agreements which will be recorded when earned. Supplemental pro forma information for these acquisitions is not included, as such business combinations are not material individually or in the aggregate.
(3) Property, Plant and Equipment
      
Property, plant and equipment consist of the following:
(4) Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
Goodwill
      
The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill for 2004 and 2003 are as follows:
      
The amount of goodwill acquired during 2004 and 2003 that is subject to deductible amortization for income tax purposes is $38,558,000 and $2,628,000, respectively.
Other Intangible Assets
      
Other intangible assets consist of the following:
      
Aggregate amortization expense for amortizable intangible assets for 2004, 2003 and 2002 was $3,936,000, $1,004,000 and $195,000, respectively. Estimated amortization expense for the next five years is: $3,975,000 in 2005, $3,950,000 in 2006, $3,906,000 in 2007, $3,129,000 in 2008 and $1,664,000 in 2009.
(5) Long-term Debt
      
Long-term debt consists of the following:
      
During 2004, the Company issued $103,500,000 of 3.50% convertible senior debentures due June 15, 2034. The debentures may be converted, under certain circumstances, into a combination of cash and common stock of the Company at an initial rate equivalent to a conversion price of $39.30 per share of common stock, subject to certain adjustments. Holders may convert the debentures if the common stock price exceeds 130% of the conversion price for 20 trading days in the 30 trading day period ending on the last trading day of the preceding fiscal quarter. Upon conversion, the Company will deliver cash equal to the lesser of the aggregate principal amount of debentures to be converted and the conversion obligation, and common stock in respect of the remainder, if any, of the conversion obligation. The Company may not redeem the debentures prior to June 20, 2009. Holders of the debentures may require the Company to repurchase some or all of the debentures on June 15, 2011, 2014 and 2024 and upon certain specified corporate transactions. The fair value of the convertible senior debentures was $113.8 million compared to the carrying value of $103.5 million at December 31, 2004. Fair value has been determined based on the quoted market price.
      
The Company maintains a $175 million credit agreement co-arranged by JPMorgan Chase Bank and Wachovia Securities along with other participating banks. The credit agreement is secured by substantially all assets excluding the Company's Lenexa, Kansas laboratory facility. The line of credit bears interest at a variable rate and requires a commitment fee of 0.5% on the unused portion of the commitment. The interest rate and commitment fee are based on a leverage ratio for the Company, as defined in the agreement. The line of credit is due on August 11, 2009. Based on covenants, $74.8 million was available for borrowing as of December 31, 2004.
      
Under the terms of the agreement, the Company must limit capital expenditures and maintain a certain level of consolidated net worth and certain other financial ratios. As of December 31, 2004, the Company was in compliance with all financial covenants related to the line of credit.
      
Aggregate maturities of long-term debt as of December 31, 2004 are as follows:
(6) Stockholders' Equity
Preferred Stock
      
In 2001, the Company sold a total of $50,000,000 in preferred stock and subordinated debt to Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe (WCAS) pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement. The Company issued $35,000,000 of convertible preferred stock and $15,000,000 of 11% subordinated debt to WCAS in exchange for $50,000,000 in cash. During 2002, the subordinated debt was refinanced from borrowings on the Company's line of credit.
      
The $35,000,000 of preferred stock consisted of two distinct series of stock in the original issuance: 14,000 shares of Series B-1 convertible preferred stock, par value of $1,000 per share, accruing paid-in-kind dividends at 8%; and 21,000 shares of Series B-2 preferred stock, par value $1,000, accruing paid-in-kind dividends at 18%. Upon shareholder approval, which occurred on January 31, 2002, the Series B-2 preferred stock was retroactively converted into Series B-1 convertible preferred stock with paid-in-kind dividends accruing at the Series B-1 rate of 8% beginning September 1, 2001.
      
The 35,000 shares of Series B-1 convertible preferred stock, plus accreted paid-in-kind dividends, was convertible into Lab
One
common stock at any time at the holder's option until August 31, 2008 at the rate of $8.32 per common share. During the third and fourth quarters of 2003, all outstanding shares of Series B-1 convertible preferred stock, plus accreted paid-in-kind dividends, were converted into 4,995,753 shares of Lab
One
common stock.
Stock Warrants
      
In addition to the issuance of B-1 convertible preferred stock in 2001, the Company issued 350,000 warrants with a strike price of $0.01 to the holders of the B-1 preferred stock. The warrants were exercisable immediately. The market price at the date of the grant was $9.25, resulting in an intrinsic value of $9.24 per warrant. These warrants were exercised in 2003.
Rights Plan
      
Lab
One
has a shareholder rights plan, which grants shareholders other than the acquiring person the right to purchase common stock at one-half of the market price if any person becomes the beneficial owner of 15% or more of the outstanding shares of common stock, subject to exceptions set forth in the plan.
Stock Compensation
      
The Company has long-term incentive plans, which provide for granting awards, including stock options, to officers, directors and employees for shares of Lab
One
common stock. The Company has granted certain stock options which entitle the grantee to purchase shares for a price equal to the fair market value at date of grant with option terms of up to ten years. The stock options generally vest ratably over five years subject to early vesting upon the occurrence of defined events. As of December 31, 2004, there were 1,808,297 additional shares available for grant under the plans.
      
A summary of the Company's stock option plans as of December 31, 2004, 2003 and 2002 and changes during the years then ended is presented below:
      
The following table summarizes information about stock options as of December 31, 2004:
(7) Income Taxes
      
The components of earnings before income taxes are as follows:
      
The components of current and deferred income taxes are as follows:
      
Total income taxes differ from the amounts computed by applying the federal statutory income tax rate of 35% to earnings before income taxes for the following items:
      
The tax effects of temporary differences that create significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows:
      
In conjunction with building its laboratory facility in Lenexa, Kansas, the Company applied and was certified for the Kansas High Performance Incentive Program (HPIP) tax credit. In order to utilize these HPIP credits against Kansas income tax, the Company must be recertified annually by the Kansas Department of Commerce (KDC). The credit may only be used to offset Kansas income tax generated by operation of the Lenexa, Kansas facility. The credit, if unused, may be carried forward for a period of ten years, provided the Company continues to meet the annual recertification requirements. In the fourth quarter of 2004, the KDC and the Company entered into an agreement stipulating that the Company could utilize the 1999 and 2002 HPIP credits as originally earned. This agreement allowed the Company to remove the valuation allowance against these credits during fourth quarter, 2004.
      
On its Kansas income tax returns, the Company used the Kansas HPIP tax credit to offset Kansas income tax of $819,000 (estimated), $1,084,000 and $466,000 during 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively. The Company's available Kansas HPIP tax credit for 2004 and 2003, respectively, net of the current year's estimated usage, was $3,033,000 and $2,883,000 with a valuation allowance of $852,000 and $2,883,000.
      
In conjunction with the construction of its laboratory facility in Cincinnati, Ohio, the Company has entered into tax credit agreements with both the State of Ohio and the City of Cincinnati. The term of these tax credit agreements extends from 20062015 and grants the Company state and local income tax credits based on wages paid to new hires at the new laboratory facility. The Company also has entered into a ten-year property tax exemption agreement with the City of Cincinnati for certain real and personal property taxes generated by the new construction and equipment purchased for use in that facility. In January, 2005, the Company received approval for a $500,000 grant from the State of Ohio to be applied to purchases of new equipment at the facility.
      
The Company has not recognized a deferred tax liability for temporary differences between the basis in its investment in its Canadian subsidiaries and the U.S. federal income tax basis thereof. Relying on the APB-23 exception, the Company deems these investments, and temporary differences thereon, as essentially permanent in duration. Should the Company repatriate the $5,800,000 of undistributed earnings of these subsidiaries, the US and Canadian tax liability that would be accrued, but not currently recognized in the financial statements, is approximately $435,000. The tax is composed of $289,000 Canadian withholding tax and $146,000 in state income taxes. The Company anticipates that the U.S. federal income tax of $3,400,000 would be fully offset by foreign tax credits. At this time, the Company does not plan to utilize the temporary dividends received deduction on repatriated foreign earnings that is part of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004.
(8) Benefit Plans
      
The Company maintains a money purchase pension plan for all employees who have completed six months of service and have attained age twenty and one-half years. The plan is a defined contribution plan under which the Company contributes a percentage of a participant's annual compensation. The Company's contributions, net of forfeitures, to the plan were $6,331,000, $4,265,000 and $4,252,000 for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
      
The Company has a profit sharing (401(k)) plan for all employees who have completed six months of service and a minimum of five hundred hours of service and have attained the age of twenty and one-half years. The Company contributes on behalf of each participant an amount equal to 50% of the participant's annual contributions, but not in excess of 5% of the participant's annual compensation. The Company's contributions are invested in Lab
One
common stock. The
Company's contributions, net of forfeitures, to the plan were $2,573,000, $1,620,000 and $1,568,000 for 2004, 2003 and 2002, respectively.
(9) Business Segment Information
      
The Company operates principally in two lines of business: risk assessment services, which is segregated into insurance laboratory, paramedical services and other insurance services, and clinical, which is segregated into healthcare services and substance abuse testing. Risk assessment services includes laboratory testing on policy applicants and specimen collection and paramedical examinations for life insurance companies. Risk assessment also includes other insurance services to the life insurance industry including teleunderwriting, telephone inspections, motor vehicle reports and medical record retrieval. Clinical includes laboratory testing services for the healthcare industry as an aid in the diagnosis and treatment of patients. The Company markets its clinical testing services to managed care companies, insurance companies, self-insured groups, hospitals and physicians. Clinical also includes substance abuse testing provided to employers to support their drug free workplace programs. The Company is certified by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration to perform substance abuse testing for federally regulated employers and currently markets these services throughout the country to both regulated and nonregulated employers.
      
Operating earnings (loss) of each segment is computed as sales less directly identifiable expenses. In computing operating earnings (loss) of the segments, none of the following items have been allocated: general corporate expenses such as administrative, management and information systems expenses; amortization of acquired identifiable intangible assets not associated with a specific segment; or total other expenses. General corporate assets are principally cash, fixed assets and goodwill not identified with a specific segment. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those of the Company as set forth in Note 1.
      
Following is a summary of segment information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2003, and 2002:
(10) Commitments and Contingencies
Litigation
      
The Company is a party to various claims or lawsuits related to services performed in the ordinary course of the Company's activities. The Company's management and legal counsel anticipate potential claims resulting from such matters that would not be covered by insurance and have appropriately provided for these claims in the consolidated financial statements. The Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not materially affect the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
Leases
      
The Company has several noncancelable operating leases, primarily for land and building, and other commitments that expire through 2012. Rental expense for these operating leases during 2004, 2003 and 2002 amounted to $5,875,000, $4,114,000 and $3,288,000, respectively.
      
Future minimum lease payments and other commitments under these agreements as of December 31, 2004 are:
      
On August 10, 1999, the former Lab
One
, Inc. was merged into its parent corporation, Lab Holdings, Inc. (formerly Seafield Capital Corporation, formerly BMA Corporation) upon the approval of the shareholders of both companies. The combined company's name was then changed to Lab
One
, Inc. Prior to the merger, Lab Holdings, Inc. was subject to contingent obligations under leases and other instruments incurred in connection with real estate activities and other operations of its predecessor, BMA Corporation. The management of Lab
One
has assessed the risk related to the probability of default by third parties regarding its continuing obligations under certain land leases with two Hawaiian trusts relating to approximately 2.3 acres of land upon which the Hyatt Regency Waikiki Hotel is built and a land lease for a parking garage in Reno, Nevada.
      
The Hawaii obligations arise out of certain land leases and subleases that were entered into by Business Men's Assurance Company of America ("BMAA"), a subsidiary of BMA Corporation, and Bankers Life of Nebraska (now known as Ameritas Life) as tenants in common (jointly and severally liablecollectively the Original Obligors) in connection with the development of the Hyatt Regency Waikiki Hotel. In the years following the initial leases, the improvements (hotel and convention center) were sold and re-sold to third parties. In connection with these sales, the land was subleased to the purchasing party. While the sublessee assumed all obligations, the Original Obligors and the subsequent obligors were not released by the land owners. During 1990, in connection with the sale of BMAA, Lab Holdings, Inc. gave an indemnity to the purchaser, Generali-Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A., against liabilities that may arise from the subject leases. Also during 1990, Lab Holdings, Inc. transferred its right title and interest to the subject leases to Scout Development Corporation ("Scout"), a subsidiary of Syntroleum Corporation. Scout assumed all of the liability and indemnified Lab Holdings, Inc. In the event that the Hyatt Regency Waikiki Hotel should fail to pay its rent and real estate taxes on the subject land, this default could trigger liability for Lab
One
, Scout and Ameritas Life. This liability is not recorded in the Company's balance sheets since the contingent liability is considered remote.
      
The current rent payments for the subject leases are $0.8 million per year plus real estate taxes of approximately $1.6 million for the most recent year available. The lease amount is fixed until the year 2006 at which time the lease calls for a negotiated increase. The formula for the increase is the product of the fair market value of the land times the market rate of return for similar land. The market rate of return to be used in the calculation has a floor of seven percent and the resulting base rent cannot decrease from the prior period. Based on current market values, the Company projects that in 2007, the annual lease obligations for the subject parcels would be approximately $5.8 million. There are subsequent renegotiations in 2017, 2027 and 2037 subject to the same formula. This lease expires in 2047. The Company believes the leasehold improvements are significantly more valuable than the lease obligations. In the event of default by the property owner, the risk of this lease would be shared with Scout and Ameritas Life.
      
The Company, through its predecessor Lab Holdings, Inc., is a lessee of a land lease for a parking garage in Reno, Nevada. The lease was assigned to Scout in August 1990. Lab Holdings, Inc. was not released from the land lease by the landowner. The property was sold in 2000. Minimum annual lease payments for the land lease are $0.3 million, adjusted for the Consumer Price Index, plus real estate taxes and insurance. The land lease expires in August 2023. Should the property owner default on its obligations under the land lease, Scout would have rights to claim the parking garage and sell the asset. Should Scout default on its obligations, Lab
One
would be obligated for the land lease payments. Management of the Company believes that the sale of the asset and the assignment of the land lease would cover the contingent liability exposure for this lease, and as such, no liability is recorded on the Company's balance sheet.
(11) Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)
      
A summary of unaudited quarterly results of operations for 2004 and 2003 is as follows:

Exhibit 99.2
(1) Basis of Presentation
Description of Business
      
Lab
One
, Inc. ("Lab
One
" or the Company) is a diagnostic services provider. The services and information Lab
One
and its subsidiaries provide include: risk assessment information services for the insurance industry; diagnostic healthcare testing; and substance abuse testing services and related employee qualification products.
      
The financial information furnished herein as of September 30, 2005, and for the periods ended September 30, 2005 and 2004, is unaudited; however, in the opinion of management, it reflects all adjustments, consisting of normal recurring adjustments, which are necessary to fairly state the Company's financial position, the results of its operations and its cash flows. The balance sheet information as of December 31, 2004 has been derived from the audited consolidated financial statements as of that date. The financial statements have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States appropriate in the circumstances, and included in the financial statements are certain amounts based on management's estimates and judgments.
      
The financial information herein is not necessarily representative of a full year's operations because levels of sales, capital additions and other factors fluctuate throughout the year. These same considerations apply to all year-to-year comparisons. Certain information and note disclosures normally included in the Company's annual financial statements have been condensed or omitted. These condensed, consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and notes thereto as of December 31, 2004 and 2003, and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2004.
(2) Earnings Per Share
      
Basic earnings per share is computed using net earnings divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share includes the effects of outstanding stock options and the dilutive effect of the convertible debentures. The par value of the debentures would be settled in cash. Subject to adjustment under certain circumstances as described in the terms of the convertible debentures, the conversion obligation is generally based upon the product of the conversion rate then in effect (25.4463 as of September 30, 2005) and the closing price of Lab
One
common stock over the measurement period. Should the debentures become convertible under the terms of the conversion rights with a stock price of $51.09 over the measurement period, the conversion obligation would be approximately $1,300 (25.4463 x $51.09), and the settlement upon conversion would consist of $1,000 cash and 5.87 shares ($300/$51.09) of common stock, per $1,000 principal amount of debentures converted, assuming none of the adjustment provisions in the debenture applied to such calculation.
      
The following table reconciles the weighted average common shares used in the basic earnings per share calculation and the weighted average common shares and common share equivalents used in the diluted earnings per share calculation:
(3) Stock-based Compensation
      
The Company applies the intrinsic-value based method of accounting prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees
, and related interpretations including FASB Interpretation No. 44,
Accounting for Certain Transactions involving Stock Compensation, an interpretation of APB Opinion No. 25
, to account for its fixed-plan stock options. Under this method, compensation expense is recorded on the date of grant only if the current market price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation
, as amended by SFAS No. 148,
Accounting for Stock-Based CompensationTransition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123
, established accounting and disclosure requirements using a fair-value based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation plans. As allowed by SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, the Company has elected to continue to apply the intrinsic-value based method of accounting described above and has adopted only the disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 123.
      
The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings if the fair-value based method had been applied to all outstanding and unvested options in each period.
(4) Business Segment Information
      
The Company operates principally in two lines of business: risk assessment services and clinical. Risk assessment services is segregated into insurance laboratory, paramedical services and other insurance services. Clinical is segregated into healthcare services and substance abuse testing.
      
During the third quarter, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement with Quest Diagnostics to be acquired. Costs related to the acquisition incurred during the quarter and year are identified in the table below.
      
Following is a summary of segment information:
(5) Business Acquisitions
      
During the first nine months of 2005, the Company made acquisition related payments of $2.4 million primarily for the elimination of an earn-out agreement and contingent payments under prior purchase agreements.
(6) Commitments and Contingencies
      
The Company is a party to various claims or lawsuits related to services performed in the ordinary course of the Company's activities. The Company's management and legal counsel anticipate potential claims resulting from such matters that would not be covered by insurance and have appropriately provided for these claims in the consolidated financial statements. The Company believes that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not materially affect the consolidated financial statements of the Company.
(7) Recently Issued Accounting Standards
      
In December 2004, the FASB issued SFAS 123R which requires the measurement of all employee share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a
fair-value-based method and the recording of such expense in the consolidated statements of operations. Due to the Securities and Exchange Commission's delay of the effective date of this pronouncement, the Company plans to adopt the accounting provisions of SFAS 123R for the first quarter of 2006. The pro forma disclosures previously permitted under SFAS 123 no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition.
      
In September, 2004, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the EITF) reached a conclusion on EITF Issue No. 04-8 The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings Per Share. Contingently convertible debt instruments (Co-Cos) are subject to the if-converted method under SFAS No. 128, Earnings Per Share (SFAS No. 128), regardless of whether a stock price-related conversion contingency included in the instrument has been met. Under prior interpretations of SFAS No. 128, issuers of Co-Cos exclude the potential common shares underlying the Co-Cos from the calculation of diluted earnings per share until the market price or other contingency is met. The effective date of EITF 04-8 is for periods ending after December 15, 2004. The Company accounts for the debentures in accordance with the EITF.
Subsequent EventAcquisition of Lab
One
Inc., and Subsidiaries by Quest Diagnostics
      
On August 8, 2005, the Company entered into a definitive agreement (the "merger agreement") with Quest Diagnostics Incorporated ("Quest Diagnostics"), which provided for Quest Diagnostics to acquire all of the outstanding shares of the Company's common stock and assume the Company's existing debt. On November 1, 2005, Quest Diagnostics acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Lab for $43.90 per share in an all-cash transaction valued at approximately $947 million, including approximately $138 million of assumed debt of Lab.
One
One
      
As a result of the change in control, as defined in the indenture to the Company's debentures, at any time from November 1, 2005 until December 1, 2005 the holders of the debentures have the right to have the debentures repurchased by the Company for 100% of the principal amount of the debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon through November 30, 2005, or the right to have the debentures converted into the amount the respective holder would have received if the holder had converted the debentures prior to November 1, 2005, plus an additional premium. As provided in the indenture, the conversion rate has increased so that each $1,000 principal amount of the debentures is convertible into cash in the amount of approximately $1,280.88 if converted by December 1, 2005.
      
In addition, pursuant to the merger agreement, Lab's outstanding stock options became fully vested and exercisable, and were cancelled in exchange for the right to receive an amount, for each share subject to the stock option, equal to the excess of $43.90 per share over the exercise price per share of such option.
One
      
The Company incurred $2.0 million in direct transaction costs associated with the merger agreement as of September 30, 2005. Such costs have been included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2005.

Exhibit 99.3
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements
 
On November 1, 2005, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company" or "Quest Diagnostics") completed its acquisition (the "Acquisition") of LabOne, Inc. ("LabOne") in a transaction valued at approximately $947 million, including approximately $138 million of assumed debt of LabOne. LabOne provides health screening and risk assessment services to life insurance companies, as well as clinical diagnostic testing services to patients and healthcare providers and drugs-of-abuse testing to employers.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, Quest Diagnostics acquired all of the outstanding common shares of LabOne. In connection with the Acquisition, Quest Diagnostics paid $43.90 per common share in cash, or $768 million in total, to acquire all of the outstanding common shares of LabOne. In addition, Quest Diagnostics paid $33 million in cash for outstanding stock options of LabOne. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, LabOne's outstanding stock options became fully vested and exercisable and were cancelled in exchange for the right to receive an amount, for each share subject to the stock option, equal to the excess of $43.90 per share over the exercise price per share of such option. The aggregate purchase price of $809 million includes transaction costs of approximately $8 million.
In conjunction with the acquisition of LabOne, Quest Diagnostics repaid approximately $127 million of debt, representing substantially all of LabOne's existing outstanding debt as of November 1, 2005.
Quest Diagnostics financed the all-cash purchase price and related transaction costs associated with the LabOne acquisition, and the repayment of substantially all of LabOne's outstanding debt with the net proceeds from a $900 million private placement of senior notes (the "Senior Notes"), completed on October 31, 2005, and cash on-hand.
The following unaudited pro forma combined financial statements of the Company have been prepared to illustrate the effects of the following transactions:
Quest Diagnostics' purchase, on November 1, 2005, of LabOne, its financing of the all-cash purchase price and related transaction costs associated with the LabOne acquisition, and the repayment of substantially all of LabOne's outstanding debt with cash on-hand and the net proceeds from its $900 million private placement of senior notes.
The Acquisition will be accounted for under the purchase method. As such, the cost to acquire LabOne will be allocated to the respective assets and liabilities acquired based on their estimated fair values at the closing of the Acquisition. A preliminary allocation of the costs to acquire LabOne has been made to certain of the assets and liabilities of LabOne in the accompanying unaudited pro forma combined financial statements based on preliminary estimates. The Company is continuing to assess the estimated fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired. Accordingly, the final allocation may be different from the amounts reflected in the accompanying unaudited pro forma combined financial statements. The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2005 gives effect to the Acquisition, the repayment of substantially all of LabOne's existing outstanding debt and the issuance of the Senior Notes as if they had occurred on September 30, 2005. The unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations assume these transactions were effected on January 1, 2004.
The costs related to the integration of LabOne's operations into the Company's laboratory network are not included in the unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2005. We have not yet finalized the integration plan for LabOne, as such, we have not yet finalized our estimate of integration costs. We expect a significant portion of these costs will require cash outlays and will primarily relate to severance and other integration-related costs, including the elimination of excess capacity and workforce reductions. To the extent that the costs relate to actions that impact LabOne's employees and operations, such costs will be accounted for as a cost of the Acquisition and will be included in goodwill. To the extent that the costs relate to actions that impact the Company's employees and operations, such costs will be accounted for as a charge to earnings in the periods that the related actions are taken.
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma combined statements of operations do not include the costs of integrating LabOne, nor do they include the estimated annual synergies expected to be realized upon completion of the integration of LabOne.
The pro forma adjustments, and the assumptions on which they are based, are described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements are presented for illustrative purposes only to aid in your analysis of the impact to the Company of the Acquisition and the issuance of the Senior Notes. The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the combined financial position or results of operations that would have been realized had the Company and LabOne been a single entity during the periods presented. In addition, the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements are not necessarily indicative of the future results of the Company. The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements and related notes should be read in conjunction with the historical financial statements of the Company and LabOne.
 
2
 
 
 
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Subsidiaries
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Balance Sheet
September 30, 2005
(in thousands)
 
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements
 
3
 
 
 
 
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Subsidiaries
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Statement of Operations
For The Nine Months Ended September 30, 2005
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements
 
4
 
 
 
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Subsidiaries
Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Statement of Operations
For The Year Ended December 31, 2004
(in thousands, except per share data)
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements
 
5
 
 
 
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated and Subsidiaries
Notes To Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Financial Statements
 
BALANCE SHEET PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS
 
The gross proceeds have been reduced for debt financing costs of $6.3 million. Such costs will be capitalized and amortized over the respective term of the Senior Notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The components of acquisition cost as are follows (in millions):
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
 
The preliminary allocation of acquisition cost to the LabOne assets and liabilities acquired under the purchase method of accounting is as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The decrease in common stockholders' equity of $210.3 million primarily represents the elimination of LabOne's historical net equity of $206.7 million and the impact of the special charges incurred and expensed by LabOne in conjunction with the LabOne acquisition of $3.6 million (as outlined in footnote (b) above).
 
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 


