FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20070606161451.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
     
On May 31, 2007, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated ("Quest Diagnostics"), as Borrower, certain wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of Borrower, as Guarantors, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Syndication Agent, and certain other lending institutions entered into (1) a Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") providing for a $1.6 billion term loan facility and a $750 million revolving credit facility, and (2) a Bridge Credit Agreement (the "Bridge Credit Agreement" and, together with the Credit Agreement, the "Credit Agreements") providing for a $1 billion bridge loan facility. Quest Diagnostics is required, under the terms of the Credit Agreements, to use the proceeds to (a) pay the purchase price for the acquisition of AmeriPath Group Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("AmeriPath") (see Item 2.01) and to pay fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition, (b) repay virtually all of AmeriPath's debt and (c) repay the $450 million senior unsecured bridge loan borrowed by Quest Diagnostics in January 2007 to finance the acquisition of POCT Holding AB (HemoCue).
     
The revolving credit facility under the Credit Agreement, which matures on May 31, 2012, replaces Quest Diagnostics' existing $500 million revolving credit facility, which had no outstanding borrowings. The term loan under the Credit Agreement requires principal repayments of 1.25% of the amount borrowed on the last day of each calendar quarter starting on September 30, 2007, with the quarterly repayment increasing on September 30, 2009 to 2.5% of the amount borrowed and on September 30, 2011 to 17.5% of the amount borrowed, with the remainder of the outstanding balance due on May 31, 2012. The loan under the Bridge Credit Agreement is due on May 30, 2008.
     
Interest under the Credit Agreements is based on certain published rates plus an applicable margin that will vary over a range from 40 basis points to 125 basis points based on changes in Quest Diagnostics' public debt ratings. At its option, Quest Diagnostics may elect to enter into LIBOR-based interest rate contracts for periods up to six months. Interest on any outstanding amounts not covered under the LIBOR-based interest rate contracts is based on an alternate base rate, which is calculated by reference to the prime rate or federal funds rate. The Credit Agreements are guaranteed by virtually all of Quest Diagnostics' domestic wholly-owned operating subsidiaries. Quest Diagnostics is required to add AmeriPath and certain of its wholly-owned operating subsidiaries as guarantors after the tender offer is consummated for the 10% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 of AmeriPath, Inc. ("Notes due 2013") (see Item 8.01).
     
The Credit Agreements contain various covenants, which are substantially the same covenants to which Quest Diagnostics was previously subject to under its existing senior unsecured revolving credit facility and which include covenants requiring the maintenance of certain financial ratios, which could impact Quest Diagnostics' ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness. In addition, the Bridge Credit Agreement provides for the mandatory prepayment of the loan in the event of a debt or equity issuance by Quest Diagnostics, subject to certain limited exceptions as set forth in the Bridge Credit Agreement.
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
     
On May 31, 2007, Quest Diagnostics completed the acquisition of AmeriPath through a merger of Ace Acquisition Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quest Diagnostics, into AmeriPath, with AmeriPath being the surviving entity in the merger (the "Merger"). As a result of the Merger, AmeriPath is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Quest Diagnostics. Welsh, Carson, Anderson & Stowe IX, L.P. was the holder of a majority of the outstanding shares of common stock and participating preferred stock of AmeriPath.
     
The aggregate consideration paid in connection with the Merger was approximately $2 billion, including the assumption of approximately $780 million of indebtedness. Quest Diagnostics funded the transaction with borrowings under the Credit Agreements, as described in Items 1.01 and 2.03, and from Quest Diagnostics' cash on hand.
     
In connection with the Merger, each holder of an option to purchase shares of AmeriPath granted under AmeriPath's stock option plan that was vested as of the closing (a "Vested Stock Option") received cash equal to a pro rata portion of the per share merger consideration, less the exercise price of such Vested Stock Option. Prior to the completion of the Merger, the Merger Agreement was amended to provide that each holder of an option to purchase shares granted under AmeriPath's stock option plan that was not vested as of the closing was converted into an option to purchase common stock of Quest Diagnostics pursuant to a formula intended to preserve the intrinsic value of such option. As a result, options for an aggregate of 621,580 shares of common stock of Quest Diagnostics for an exercise price of $16.733 per share were assumed.
     
Quest Diagnostics will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the financial statements and pro forma financial information required to be filed pursuant to Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X and Article 11 of Regulation S-X within 71 days of the date this current report on Form 8-K was required to be filed.
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
     
On May 31, 2007, Quest Diagnostics borrowed $1.6 billion under the term loan facility under the Credit Agreement and $500 million under the Bridge Credit Agreement. On June 5, 2007 Quest Diagnostics gave notice to borrow approximately $280 million under the Bridge Credit Agreement for the purpose of purchasing the Notes due 2013 that have been tendered to AmeriPath, Inc (see Item 8.01) . Upon completing the purchase of the Notes due 2013, virtually all of AmeriPath's existing indebtedness will have been repaid. Quest Diagnostics does not expect to borrow any additional amounts under the Bridge Credit Agreement. No additional amounts may be borrowed under the Bridge Credit Agreement after August 29, 2007. The information contained in Item 1.01 is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01. Other Events
On June 5, 2007 Quest Diagnostics issued a press release announcing receipt of requisite consents for the cash tender offer and consent solicitation for the Notes due 2013 and
announcing the pricing for the tender offer. A copy of such press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
Exhibits
10.1 Credit Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2007 among Quest Diagnostics, the guarantors named therein, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Syndication Agent, and certain other lending institutions parties thereto.
10.2 Bridge Credit Agreement, dated as of May 31, 2007 among Quest Diagnostics, the guarantors named therein, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as Syndication Agent, and certain other lending institutions parties thereto.
10.3 Amendment dated as of May 31, 2007 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger among Quest Diagnostics, Merger Sub and AmeriPath.
99.1 Press release, dated June 5, 2007, issued by Quest Diagnostics with respect to the cash tender offer and consent solicitation for the 10% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 of AmeriPath, Inc.
Signature
 
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
June 5, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Published CUSIP Number:
 74834QAC3 
          THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ""), is entered into as of May 31, 2007 among QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower (individually a "" and collectively the ""), the various financial institutions and other Persons from time to time parties hereto (the ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "") for the Lenders, MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC. ("") as syndication agent (in such capacity, the ""), for the Lenders, Barclays Bank PLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Merrill Lynch Bank, USA and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as the co-documentation agents for the Lenders (in such capacities, the "") for the Lenders and Morgan Stanley and Banc of America Securities LLC, as the joint lead arrangers and joint lead bookrunners (in such capacities, the "").
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Guarantor
Guarantors
Lenders
Administrative Agent
Morgan Stanley
Syndication Agent
Co-Documentation Agents
Lead Arrangers
          WHEREAS, the Borrower, Ace Acquisition Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Borrower ("") and Ameripath Group Holdings, Inc. (" have entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 15, 2007 (as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms, the ""), pursuant to which, among other things, (i) the Borrower will acquire Ameripath by means of a merger (the "") of Merger Sub and Ameripath (the ""), with Ameripath being the surviving company of the Merger and the Borrower being the 100% owner of all Capital Securities of Ameripath immediately upon the effectiveness of the Merger and (ii) in connection with the Ameripath Acquisition, the Borrower will repay (or cause to be repaid) (a) certain Indebtedness of Ameripath and its Subsidiaries (the "") and (b) certain Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (the "" and, together with Ameripath Refinancing, the "");
Merger Sub
Ameripath)
Merger Agreement
Merger
Ameripath Acquisition
Ameripath Refinancing
Borrower Refinancing
Refinancing
          WHEREAS, for purposes of consummating the Ameripath Acquisition, the Refinancing, paying related fees, costs and expenses, and providing financing for the post-Merger working capital and general corporate needs of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including acquisitions (collectively, the ""), the Borrower has requested the following financing facilities:
Transaction
          WHEREAS, the Lenders are willing, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, to provide the Senior Credit Facilities;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
.
                    1.1
Definitions
          As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings herein specified unless the context otherwise requires. Defined terms herein shall include in the singular number the plural and in the plural the singular:
          "" means the acquisition by any Person of (a) more than 50% of the Capital Stock of another Person, (b) all or substantially all of the assets of another Person or (c) all or substantially all of a line of business of another Person, in each case whether or not involving a merger or consolidation with such other Person.
Acquisition
          "" means each Person that becomes a Guarantor after the Closing Date, as provided in Section 7.12 or otherwise.
Additional Credit Party
          "" means Bank of America, N.A. (or any successor thereto) or any successor administrative agent appointed pursuant to Section 10.9.
Administrative Agent
          "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling (including but not limited to all directors and officers of such Person), controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. A Person shall be deemed to control a corporation if such Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power (a) to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of such corporation or (b) to direct or cause direction of the management and policies of such corporation, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
          "" means any physician-owned professional organization, association or corporation that employs or contracts with physicians engaged in a pathology or other medical practice and has entered into a Management Services Agreement with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Affiliated Practice
          "" means, with respect to any currency, the Administrative Agent's address and, as appropriate, account as set forth on with respect to such currency, or such other address or account with respect to such currency as the Administrative Agent may from time to time designate by notice to the Borrower and the Lenders.
Agency Services Address
Schedule 11.1
          "" means the Administrative Agent (including any successor administrative agent), together with its Affiliates (including, in the case of Bank of America in its capacity as the Administrative Agent, BAS), and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, counsel and attorneys-in-fact.
Agent-Related Person
          "" means Bank of America N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., in its capacity as Syndication Agent, Barclays Bank PLC, in its capacity as Co-Documentation Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., , in its capacity as Co-Documentation Agent, Merrill Lynch Bank, USA , in its capacity as Co-Documentation Agent, and Wachovia Bank, National Association in its capacity as Co-Documentation Agent.
Agents
          "" means Euro, Sterling and each other currency (other than Dollars) that is approved in accordance with Section 1.7.
Alternative Currency
          "" means, at any time, with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the equivalent amount thereof in the applicable Alternative Currency as determined by the Administrative Agent at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of such Alternative Currency with Dollars.
Alternative Currency Equivalent
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Ameripath Acquisition
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Ameripath Refinancing
          "" means the appropriate applicable percentages corresponding to the Debt Rating of the Borrower in effect from time to time as described below:
Applicable Percentage
          "" means, with respect to any borrowings and payments in any Alternative Currency, the local time in the place of settlement for such Alternative Currency as may be determined by the Administrative Agent to be necessary for timely settlement on the relevant date in accordance with normal banking procedures in the place of payment.
Applicable Time
          "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (i) a Lender, (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender or (iii) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
          "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
          "" means an Assignment and Assumption substantially in the form of .
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit 11.3(b)
          "" means all reasonable fees and disbursements of any law firm or other external counsel and the reasonable allocated cost of internal legal services and all disbursements of internal counsel.
Attorney Costs
          "" means, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the fair market value of the Principal Property (as determined in good faith by the Borrower's board of directors); and (b) the present value of the total net amount of rent payments to be made under the lease during its remaining term, discounted at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of the lease, compounded semi-annually.
Attributable Debt
          "" means any of the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, corporate controller, treasurer or assistant treasurer of the Borrower.
Authorized Officer
          "" means Bank of America, N.A. or any successor thereto.
Bank of America
          "" means the Bankruptcy Code in Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.
Bankruptcy Code
          "" means Banc of America Securities LLC.
BAS
          "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such day  of 1% or (b) the Prime Rate in effect on such day. If for any reason the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that it is unable after due inquiry to ascertain the Federal Funds Rate for any reason, including the inability or failure of the Administrative Agent to obtain sufficient quotations in accordance with the terms hereof, the Base Rate shall be determined without
Base Rate
plus
regard to clause (a) of the first sentence of this definition until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Rate shall be effective at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
          "" means any Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
          "" is defined within the definition of "Eurocurrency Rate".
BBA LIBOR
          "" means Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, together with any successors and permitted assigns.
Borrower
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1(i).
Borrower Materials
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Borrower Refinancing
          "" means the Bridge Credit Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and the Agents.
Bridge Credit Agreement
          "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Agency Service Address with respect to Loans denominated in Dollars is located and:
Business Day
          (a) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Dollars in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Dollars to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in Dollars are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market;
          (b) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Euro, any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in Euro in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or any other dealings in Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, means a TARGET Day;
          (c) if such day relates to any interest rate settings as to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, means any such day on which dealings in deposits in the relevant currency are conducted by and between banks in the London or other applicable offshore interbank market for such currency; and
          (d) if such day relates to any fundings, disbursements, settlements and payments in a currency other than Dollars or Euro in respect of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in a currency other than Dollars or Euro, or any other dealings in any currency other than Dollars or Euro to be carried out pursuant to this Agreement in respect of any such Eurocurrency Rate Loan (other than any interest rate settings), means any such day on which banks are open for foreign exchange business in the principal financial center of the country of such currency.
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.19(a)(i).
Businesses
          "" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Applicable Percentage.
Calculation Date
          "" means the College of American Pathologists.
CAP
          "" means, as applied to any Person, any lease of any Property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which, in accordance with GAAP, is or should be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person and the amount of such obligation shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease
          "" means (a) in the case of a corporation, all classes of capital stock of such corporation, (b) in the case of a partnership, partnership interests (whether general or limited), (c) in the case of a limited liability company, membership interests and (d) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person.
Capital Stock
          "" means (a) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof having maturities of not more than eighteen months from the date of acquisition, (b) Dollar denominated time and demand deposits, certificates of deposit and banker's acceptances of (i) any Lender, (ii) any domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 or (iii) any bank whose short-term commercial paper rating from S&P is at least A-1 or the equivalent thereof or from Moody's is at least P-1 or the equivalent thereof (any such bank being an ""), in each case with maturities of not more than 270 days from the date of acquisition, (c) commercial paper and variable or fixed rate notes issued by any Approved Bank (or by the parent company thereof) or any variable rate notes issued by, or guaranteed by, any domestic corporation rated A-1 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by S&P or P-1 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by Moody's and maturing within six months of the date of acquisition, (d) repurchase agreements with a bank or trust company (including any of the Lenders) or recognized securities dealer having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 for direct obligations issued by or fully guaranteed by the United States of America in which the Borrower shall have a perfected first priority security interest (subject to no other Liens) and having, on the date of purchase thereof, a fair market value of at least 100% of the amount of the repurchase obligations, (e) Investments in tax-exempt municipal bonds rated A (or the equivalent thereof) or better by S&P or MIG2 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by Moody's, (f) auction rate securities rated AA or better by S&P or Moody's, in either case with a reset of no longer than 90 days and (g) Investments, classified in accordance with GAAP as current assets, in money market investment programs registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which are administered by reputable financial institutions having capital of at least $500,000,000 and the portfolios of which are limited to Investments of the character described in the foregoing subdivisions (a) through (f).
Cash Equivalents
Approved Bank
          "" means all Interest Expense actually paid in cash by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Cash Interest Expenses
          "" means the United States Department of Defense Civilian Health and Medical Program of the United States or any successor thereto including, without limitation, TRICARE.
CHAMPUS
          "" means either of the following events:
Change of Control
          "" means the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment as set forth at 42 U.S.C. 263a and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended.
CLIA
          "" means the date on which the conditions set forth in Section 5.1 shall have been fulfilled (or waived in the sole discretion of the Lenders) and on which the initial Loans shall have been made and/or the initial Letters of Credit shall have been issued.
Closing Date
          "" means the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services of HHS, any successor thereof and any predecessor thereof, including the HCFA.
CMS
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Co-Documentation Agents
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.
Code
          "" means, without duplication, (a) the commitment of each Lender with respect to the Term Loan Committed Amount (b) the commitment of each Lender with respect to the Revolving Committed Amount, (c) the commitment of the Issuing Lender with respect to the LOC Committed Amount, (d) the commitment of the Swing Line Lender with respect to the Swing Line Committed Amount and (e) the commitment of each Lender with respect to the Incremental Revolving Committed Amount.
Commitments
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Company
          "" means an offer by a Lender to make a Competitive Bid Loan pursuant to Section 2.5.
Competitive Bid
          "" means $1,000 for each Competitive Bid Request.
Competitive Bid Fee
          "" means a loan made by a Lender in its discretion pursuant to Section 2.5.
Competitive Bid Loan
          "" means the promissory notes of the Borrower in favor of each Lender evidencing the Competitive Bid Loans provided pursuant to Section 2.5, individually or collectively, as appropriate, as such promissory notes may be amended, modified, supplemented or replaced from time to time and as evidenced in the form of .
Competitive Bid Loan Notes
Exhibit 2.5(g)
          "" means, as to any Competitive Bid made by a Lender in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.5, the rate of interest offered by the Lender making the Competitive Bid.
Competitive Bid Rate
          "" means a request by the Borrower for Competitive Bids in the form of .
Competitive Bid Request
Exhibit 2.5(b)
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Credit Agreement
          "" means this Credit Agreement, the Notes, any Joinder Agreement, the LOC Documents, any Notice of Borrowing, any Competitive Bid Request and any Swing Line Loan Request.
Credit Documents
          "" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Required Lenders in this Section 1.1.
Credit Exposure
          "" means the Borrower and the Guarantors and "" means any one of them.
Credit Parties
Credit Party
          "" means, without duplication, all of the obligations of the Credit Parties to the Lenders (including the Issuing Lender and the Swing Line Lender) and the Administrative Agent, whenever arising, under this Credit Agreement, the Notes, or any of the other Credit Documents.
Credit Party Obligations
          "" means the long-term senior unsecured, non-credit enhanced debt rating of the Borrower from S&P and Moody's.
Debt Rating
          "" means any event, act or condition which with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
Default
          "" means, at any time, any Lender that, (a) has failed to make a Loan or purchase a Participation Interest required pursuant to the terms of this Credit Agreement (but only for so long as such Loan is not made or such Participation Interest is not purchased), (b) has failed to pay to the Administrative Agent or any Lender an amount owed by such Lender pursuant to the terms of this Credit Agreement (but only for so long as such amount has not been repaid) or (c) has been deemed insolvent or has become subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding or to a receiver, trustee or similar official.
Defaulting Lender
          "" means any payment of dividends or any other distribution upon any shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Borrower.
Dividends
          "" means, at any time, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, such amount, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in any Alternative Currency, the equivalent amount thereof in Dollars as determined by the Administrative Agent at such time on the basis of the Spot Rate (determined in respect of the most recent Revaluation Date) for the purchase of Dollars with such Alternative Currency.
Dollar Equivalent
          "" and "" means dollars in lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
          "" means each direct and indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower that is domiciled or organized under the laws of any State of the United States or the District of Columbia.
Domestic Subsidiary
          "" means, for any period, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, (a) Net Income for such period (excluding the effect of any extraordinary or other non-recurring gains and losses (including any gain or loss from the sale of Property)) (b) an amount which, in the determination of Net Income for such period, has been deducted for (i) Interest Expense for such period, (ii) total Federal, state, foreign or other income or franchise taxes for such period, (iii) all depreciation and amortization for such period, (iv) other items of expense during such period that do not involve a cash payment at any time (other than the provision for bad debt in connection with uncollectible accounts receivable), (v) cash charges during such period for which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are reimbursed by a third party during such period, (vi) special or restructuring items during any such period included in Net Income that do not involve a cash payment during such period (collectively, "Non-Cash Items") and (vii) expenses charged pursuant to FAS 123(R), as promulgated in accordance with GAAP, during such period (c) any actual cash payments during the applicable period related to Non-Cash Items expensed or reserved under clauses (v) and (vi) above (d) Tender Costs during such period; that, for purposes of calculating the Leverage Ratio and the Interest Coverage Ratio hereunder, EBITDA shall be calculated as if Ameripath and its Subsidiaries were Subsidiaries of the Borrower on the Closing Date and during the twelve-month period preceding such date unless, in the case of any Subsidiary of Ameripath which has not been a Subsidiary for the entire twelve-month period preceding the Closing Date, such lesser period of time.
EBITDA
plus
minus
plus
provided
          "" means any assets or any business (or any substantial part thereof) used or useful in the same or a similar line of business as the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are engaged on the date hereof or other healthcare-related businesses or businesses reasonably related thereto.
Eligible Assets
          "" means (a) a Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) an Approved Fund and (d) any other Person approved by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lender, the Swing Line Lender and the Borrower (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that (i) the Borrower's consent is not required during the existence and continuation of a Default or an Event of Default, (ii) approval by the Borrower shall be deemed given if no objection is received by the assigning Lender and the Administrative Agent from the Borrower within five Business Days after notice of such proposed assignment has been delivered to the Borrower; (iii) neither the Borrower nor an Affiliate of the Borrower shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee; and (iv) no competitor of the Borrower shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.
Eligible Assignee
provided
          "" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
          "" means any current or future legally enforceable requirement of any Governmental Authority pertaining to (a) the protection of the indoor or outdoor environment, (b) the conservation, management, or use of natural resources and wildlife, (c) the protection or use of surface water and groundwater or (d) the management, manufacture, possession, presence, use, generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release, threatened release, abatement, removal, remediation or handling of, or exposure to, any hazardous or toxic substance or material or (e) pollution (including any release to land surface water and groundwater) and includes, without limitation, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, 42 USC 9601 Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 and Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984, 42 USC 6901 Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977, 33 USC 1251 Clean Air Act of 1966, as amended, 42 USC 7401 Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, 15 USC 2601 Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 USC App. 1801 Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, 29 USC 651 Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 33 USC 2701 Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, 42 USC 11001 National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 USC 4321 Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended, 42 USC 300(f) any analogous implementing or successor law, and any amendment, rule, regulation, order, or directive issued thereunder.
Environmental Laws
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
          "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations thereunder, all as the same may be in effect from time to time. References to sections of ERISA shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections.
ERISA
          "" means an entity, whether or not incorporated, which is treated as a single employer with the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower under Sections 414(b) or (c) of the Code and solely for purposes of Section 412 of the Code under Section 414(m) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
          "" means (a) with respect to any Single Employer or Multiple Employer Plan, the occurrence of a Reportable Event or the substantial cessation of operations (within the meaning of Section 4062(e) of ERISA); (b) the withdrawal of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as such term is defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA), or the termination of a Multiple Employer Plan; (c) the distribution of a notice of intent to terminate or the actual termination of a Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) or 4041A of ERISA; (d) the institution of proceedings to terminate or the actual termination of any Plan by the PBGC under Section 4042 of ERISA; (e) any event or condition which might constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan; (f) the complete or partial withdrawal of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (g) the conditions for imposition of a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA exist with respect to any Plan; or (h) the adoption of an amendment to any Plan requiring the provision of security to such Plan pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA.
ERISA Event
          "" and "" mean the lawful currency of the Participating Member States introduced in accordance with the EMU Legislation.
Euro
EUR
          "" means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for deposits in the relevant currency (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurocurrency Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in the relevant currency for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in Same Day Funds in the approximate amount of the Eurocurrency Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch (or other Bank of America branch or Affiliate) to major banks in the London or other offshore interbank market for such currency at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurocurrency Rate
BBA LIBOR
          "" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurocurrency Rate. Eurocurrency Rate Loans may be denominated in Dollars or in an Alternative Currency. All Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency must be Eurocurrency Rate Loans.
Eurocurrency Rate Loan
          "" means, with respect to each Lender, the percentage (expressed as a decimal) applicable to such Lender which is in effect from time to time under Regulation D as the reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any basic, supplemental, emergency, special, or marginal reserves) applicable with respect to its Eurocurrency liabilities, as that term is defined in Regulation D (or against any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate of Eurocurrency Rate Loans is determined). Eurocurrency Rate Loans made by a Lender shall be deemed to constitute Eurocurrency liabilities and as such shall be deemed subject to reserve requirements, if applicable, without benefits of credits for proration, exceptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to such Lender.
Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage
          "" means any of the events or circumstances specified in Section 9.1.
Event of Default
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.
Exchange Act
          "" means the letters of credit described on .
Existing Letters of Credit
Schedule 2.3(c)
          "" means, as to any Lender, the making of a Loan by such Lender (or a participation therein by a Lender) or the issuance or increase in the face amount of, or participation in, a Letter of Credit by such Lender.
Extension of Credit
          "" means the fees payable to the Lenders pursuant to Section 3.4(a).
Facility Fees
          "" means for any day the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next preceding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to the Administrative Agent on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
          "" means that certain letter agreement dated as of April 23, 2007 among the Borrower, BAS, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley.
Fee Letter
          "" means each direct and indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower that is not a Domestic Subsidiary.
Foreign Subsidiary
          "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
          "" means, without duplication, the sum of (a) all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for borrowed money, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, (c) the principal portion of all obligations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries under Capital Leases, (d) all drawn but unreimbursed amounts under all letters of credit (other than letters of credit supporting trade payables in the ordinary course of business) issued for the account of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (e) all Funded Debt of another Person secured by a Lien on any Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries whether or not such Funded Debt has been assumed by a Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (f) all Funded Debt of any partnership or unincorporated joint venture to the extent the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries is legally obligated with respect thereto and (g) the amount of principal attributable under any outstanding Synthetic Lease. It is understood and agreed that Indebtedness incurred pursuant to Hedging Agreements is not Funded Debt.
Funded Debt
          "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis and subject to Section 1.3.
GAAP
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(j)(i).
Government Acts
          "" means any, Federal, state, local, provincial or foreign court or governmental agency, authority (including executive authority), instrumentality or regulatory body.
Governmental Authority
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.3(g).
Granting Lender
          "" means each of the Material Domestic Subsidiaries of the Borrower, any other Subsidiary of the Borrower that guaranties any Pari Passu Debt and each Additional Credit Party, together with their successors and assigns.
Guarantor
          "" means the guaranty of the Credit Party Obligations provided by the Guarantors pursuant to Section 4.
Guaranty
          "" means, with respect to any Person, without duplication, any obligations (other than endorsements in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection) guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person in any manner, whether direct or indirect, and including without limitation any obligation, whether or not contingent, (a) to purchase any such Indebtedness or other obligation or any Property constituting security therefor, (b) to advance or provide funds or other support for the payment or purchase of such Indebtedness or obligation or to maintain working capital, solvency or other balance sheet condition of such other Person (including, without limitation, maintenance agreements, comfort letters, take or pay arrangements, put agreements or similar agreements or arrangements) for the benefit of the holder of Indebtedness of such other Person, (c) to lease or purchase Property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or (d) to otherwise assure or hold harmless the owner of such Indebtedness or obligation against loss in respect thereof. The amount of any Guaranty Obligation hereunder shall (subject to any limitations set forth therein) be deemed to be an amount equal to the outstanding principal amount (or maximum principal amount, if larger) of the Indebtedness in respect of which such Guaranty Obligation is made.
Guaranty Obligations
          "" means any substance, material or waste defined in or regulated under any Environmental Laws.
Hazardous Materials
          "" means the United States Health Care Financing Administration and any successor thereto, including CMS.
HCFA
          "" means, collectively, interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements, commodity purchase or option agreements or other interest or exchange rate or commodity price hedging agreements, in each case, entered into or purchased by a Credit Party.
Hedging Agreements
          "" means the United States Department of Health and Human Services and any successor thereof.
HHS
          "" means the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-191, Aug. 21, 1996, 110 Stat. 1936 and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended from time to time.
HIPAA
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 2.2(e)(i).
Incremental Revolving Loans
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 2.2(e)(i).
Incremental Revolving Loan Commitment
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 2.2(e)(i).
Incremental Revolving Committed Amount
          "" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, or upon which interest payments are customarily made, (c) all obligations of
Indebtedness
such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to Property purchased by such Person to the extent of the value of such Property (other than customary reservations or retentions of title under agreements with suppliers entered into in the ordinary course of business), (d) all obligations, other than intercompany items, of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services purchased by such Person which would appear as liabilities on a balance sheet of such Person, (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on, or payable out of the proceeds of production from, property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (f) all Guaranty Obligations of such Person, (g) the principal portion of all obligations of such Person under (i) Capital Leases and (ii) any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing product of such Person where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP, (h) all obligations of such Person to repurchase any securities which repurchase obligation is related to the issuance thereof, including, without limitation, obligations commonly known as residual equity appreciation potential shares, (i) all net obligations of such Person in respect of Hedging Agreements, (j) the maximum amount of all performance and standby letters of credit issued or bankers' acceptances facilities created for the account of such Person and, without duplication, all drafts drawn thereunder (to the extent unreimbursed), and (k) the aggregate amount of uncollected accounts receivable of such Person subject at such time to a sale of receivables (or similar transaction) regardless of whether such transaction is effected without recourse to such Person or in a manner that would not be reflected on the balance sheet of such Person in accordance with GAAP. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or unincorporated joint venture in which such Person is legally obligated.
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.5(b)(i).
Indemnified Liabilities
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.5(b)(i).
Indemnitees
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.20.
Intellectual Property
          "" is defined in Section 11.15.
Information
          "" means, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) EBITDA for the twelve month period ending on such date to (b) Cash Interest Expense for the twelve month period ending on such date.
Interest Coverage Ratio
          "" means, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for any period, all interest expense, including, without duplication, the interest component under Capital Leases, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
          "" means (a) as to Base Rate Loans and Swing Line Loans, the last day of each calendar quarter and the Maturity Date, (b) as to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the last day of each applicable Interest Period and the Maturity Date and in addition, where the applicable Interest Period for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan is greater than three months, then also the date three months from the beginning of the Interest Period and each three months thereafter and (c) as to Competitive Bid Loans, on the last day of the Interest Period for each Competitive Bid Loan and on
Interest Payment Date
the Maturity Date. If an Interest Payment Date falls on a date which is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be deemed to be the next succeeding Business Day, except that in the case of Eurocurrency Rate Loans where the next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then on the next preceding Business Day.
          "" means (a) as to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, a period of one, two, three or six months' duration, as the Borrower may elect, commencing, in each case, on the date of the borrowing (including continuations and conversions thereof) and (b) as to Competitive Bid Loans, a period beginning on the date the Competitive Bid Loan is made and ending on the date specified in the respective Competitive Bid whereby the offer to make the Competitive Loan was extended, which shall not be less than 14 days nor more than 180 days duration; , , (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (except that where the next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then on the next preceding Business Day), (ii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date and (iii) where an Interest Period begins on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month in which the Interest Period is to end, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such calendar month.
Interest Period
provided
however
          "" in any Person means (a) the acquisition (whether for cash, property, services, assumption of Indebtedness, securities or otherwise) of assets, shares of Capital Stock, bonds, notes, debentures, partnership, joint ventures or other ownership interests or other securities of such other Person or (b) any deposit with, or advance, loan or other extension of credit to, such Person (other than deposits or advances made in connection with the purchase of equipment or other assets or services in the ordinary course of business) or (c) any other capital contribution to or investment in such Person, including, without limitation, any Guaranty Obligation (including any support for a letter of credit issued on behalf of such Person) incurred for the benefit of such Person.
Investment
          "" means Bank of America.
Issuing Lender
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b)(ii).
Issuing Lender Fees
          "" means a Joinder Agreement substantially in the form of .
Joinder Agreement
Exhibit 7.12
          "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Lead Arrangers
          "" means any of the Persons identified as a "Lender" on the signature pages hereto, and any Eligible Assignee which may become a Lender by way of assignment in accordance with the terms hereof, together with their successors and permitted assigns.
Lender
          "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such on , or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time notify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
Schedule 1.1(a)
          "" means any letter of credit issued for the account of the Borrower by the Issuing Lender pursuant to Section 2.3, as such letter of credit may be amended, modified, extended, renewed or replaced.
Letter of Credit
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.4(b)(i).
Letter of Credit Fees
          "" means, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Funded Debt on such date to (b) EBITDA for the twelve month period ending on such date.
Leverage Ratio
          "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, encumbrance, lien (statutory or otherwise), preference, priority or charge of any kind, including, without limitation, any agreement to give any of the foregoing, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, and any lease in the nature thereof (other than operating leases).
Lien
           "" or "" means the Term Loans, the Revolving Loans, the Competitive Bid Loans and the Swing Line Loans (or any portion thereof), individually or collectively, as appropriate.
Loan
Loans
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.3(d).
Loan Participant
          "" means the commitment of the Issuing Lender to issue Letters of Credit for the account of the Borrower in an aggregate face amount outstanding (together with the amounts of any unreimbursed drawings thereon) at any time of up to the LOC Committed Amount.
LOC Commitment
          "" means ONE HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($150,000,000).
LOC Committed Amount
          "" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit, any amendments thereto, any documents delivered in connection therewith, any application therefor, and any agreements, instruments, guarantees or other documents (whether general in application or applicable only to such Letter of Credit) governing or providing for (a) the rights and obligations of the parties concerned or at risk or (b) any collateral security for such obligations.
LOC Documents
          "" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the maximum amount which is, or at any time thereafter may become, available to be drawn under Letters of Credit then outstanding, assuming compliance with all requirements for drawings referred to in such Letters of Credit (b) the aggregate amount of all drawings under Letters of Credit honored by the Issuing Lender but not theretofore reimbursed.
LOC Obligations
plus
          "" means a written management agreement entered into by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with an Affiliated Practice, which agreement has been approved in accordance with the Borrower's customary policies and procedures (as then in effect) for similar contracts and agreements.
Management Services Agreement
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(e).
Mandatory Borrowing
          "" means, with respect to any period, the percentage rate per annum determined in accordance with .
Mandatory Cost
Schedule 1.01
          "" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of a Credit Party to perform its obligations under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, or (c) the validity or enforceability of this Credit Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents, or the rights and remedies of the Lenders hereunder or thereunder taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
          "" means any wholly-owned Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower that, directly or indirectly, (a) owns assets in excess of $20,000,000 or (b) has annual revenues, as of the most recently ended fiscal year of the Borrower, in excess of two percent (2%) of the total revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; that neither Quest Receivables nor any Affiliated Practice shall be deemed to be a Material Domestic Subsidiary; and that neither Ameripath nor any of its wholly-owned Domestic Subsidiaries that would otherwise qualify as a Material Domestic Subsidiary on the date hereof shall be deemed to be a Material Domestic Subsidiary for purposes of Section 7.12(a) hereof until the date that the 10% Subordinated Note Tender Offer shall have been consummated.
Material Domestic Subsidiary
provided
provided
further
          "" means the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date.
Maturity Date
          "" shall mean that entitlement program under Title XIX of the Social Security Act that provides federal grants to states for medical assistance based on specific eligibility criteria.
Medicaid
          "" means an agreement entered into between a state agency or other such entity administering the Medicaid program and a health care provider or supplier under which the health care provider or supplier agrees to provide services for Medicaid patients in accordance with the terms of the agreement and Medicaid Regulations.
Medicaid Provider Agreement
          "" means, collectively, (a) all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XIX of the Social Security Act or elsewhere) affecting Medicaid and any statutes succeeding thereto; (b) all applicable provisions of all federal rules, regulations, manuals and orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines having the force of law of all Governmental Authorities promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (a) above; (c) all state statutes and plans for medical assistance enacted in connection with the statutes and provisions described in clauses (a) and (b) above; and (d) all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals and orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines having the force of law of all Governmental Authorities promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (c) above and all state administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities having the force of law promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (b) above, in each case as may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Medicaid Regulations
          "" shall mean the Medicare, Medicaid, CHAMPUS and TRICARE programs and any other healthcare program operated by or financed in whole or in part
Medical Reimbursement Programs
by any foreign, domestic, federal, state or local government and any other non-government funded third party payor programs.
          "" shall mean that government-sponsored entitlement program under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act that provides for a health insurance system for eligible elderly and disabled individuals.
Medicare
          "" means an agreement entered into between CMS or other such entity administering the Medicare program on behalf of CMS, and a health care provider or supplier under which the health care provider or supplier agrees to provide services for Medicare patients in accordance with the terms of the agreement and Medicare Regulations.
Medicare Provider Agreement
          "" shall mean, collectively, all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act or elsewhere) affecting the health insurance program for the aged and disabled established by Title XVIII of the Social Security Act and any statutes succeeding thereto; together with all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals and orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines having the force of law of all Governmental Authorities (including, without limitation, the HHS, CMS, the OIG, or any person succeeding to the functions of any of the foregoing) promulgated pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing having the force of law, as each may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Medicare Regulations
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Merger
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Merger Agreement
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Merger Sub
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor or assignee of the business of such company in the business of rating securities.
Moody's
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Morgan Stanley
          "" means a Plan which is a multiemployer plan as defined in Sections 3(37) or 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
          "" means a Plan covered by Title IV of ERISA (other than a Multiemployer Plan) in which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one employer other than the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate are contributing sponsors.
Multiple Employer Plan
          "" means, for any period, the net income after taxes for such period of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP and without duplication.
Net Income
          "" has the meaning set forth in the definition of EBITDA in Section 1.1.
Non-Cash Items
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.6.
Non-Consenting Lender
          "" means any wholly-owned Domestic Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor other than Quest Receivables and any Affiliated Practice.
Non-Material Domestic Subsidiary
          "" or "" means the Term Notes, the Revolving Notes, the Competitive Bid Loan Notes and the Swing Line Loan Note, individually or collectively, as appropriate.
Note
Notes
          "" means a request by the Borrower for a Loan, in the form of .
Notice of Borrowing
Exhibit 2.2(b)
          "" means a request by the Borrower to continue an existing Eurocurrency Rate Loan to a new Interest Period or to convert a Eurocurrency Rate Loan to a Base Rate Loan or a Base Rate Loan to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, in the form of .
Notice of Continuation/Conversion
Exhibit 2.5
          "" means the Office of Inspector General of HHS and any successor thereof.
OIG
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 3.13(b).
Other Taxes
          "" means, for any day, (a) with respect to any amount denominated in Dollars, the greater of (i) the Federal Funds Rate and (ii) an overnight rate determined by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lender, or the Swing Line Lender, as the case may be, in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation, and (b) with respect to any amount denominated in an Alternative Currency, the rate of interest per annum at which overnight deposits in the applicable Alternative Currency, in an amount approximately equal to the amount with respect to which such rate is being determined, would be offered for such day by a branch or Affiliate of Bank of America in the applicable offshore interbank market for such currency to major banks in such interbank market.
Overnight Rate
          "" means all unsecured indebtedness of the Borrower.
Pari Passu Debt
          "" means Lenders with a Revolving Loan Commitment Percentage greater than zero.
Participants
          "" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
          "" means the Extension of Credit by a Lender by way of a purchase of a participation in (a) Letters of Credit or LOC Obligations as provided in Section 2.3, (b) Swing Line Loans as provided in Section 2.4 or (c) any Loans as provided in Section 3.8.
Participation Interest
          "" means the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), as amended and supplemented from time to time.
Patriot Act
          "" means all documentation and other information available to the Borrower or its Subsidiaries which a Lender, if subject to the Patriot Act, is required to provide pursuant to the applicable section of the Patriot Act and which required documentation and information the Administrative Agent or any Lender reasonably requests in order to comply with their ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Disclosures
          "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA and any successor thereto.
PBGC
           "" means an Acquisition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; that (a) substantially all of the Property acquired (or the Property of the Person acquired) in such Acquisition constitutes Eligible Assets (or goodwill associated therewith), (b) in the case of an Acquisition of the Capital Stock of another Person, the board of directors (or other comparable governing body) of such other Person or its parent shall have duly approved such Acquisition, (c) on the date of such Acquisition no Event of Default exists, (d) after giving effect to such Acquisition, no Default or Event of Default shall exist, (e) if such Acquisition involves the formation of a new Subsidiary of the Borrower, such Subsidiary complies with Section 7.12, (f) such Acquisition is undertaken in accordance with all laws, rules, regulations, orders, writs, judgments, injunctions, decrees and awards to which any party to such Acquisition may be subject and (g) the Borrower shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a compliance certificate for the period of four full fiscal quarters immediately preceding such acquisition (prepared in good faith and in a manner and using such methodology which is consistent with the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 7.1) giving pro forma effect to the consummation of such acquisition and evidence compliance with the covenants set forth in Section 7.2.
Permitted Acquisition
provided
          "" means Investments which constitute the following: (a) cash or Cash Equivalents, (b) trade accounts receivable created, acquired or made in the ordinary course of business, (c) inventory, raw materials, general intangibles and other current assets acquired in the ordinary course of business, (d) Investments by the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries in each other, (e) Permitted Acquisitions, (f) advances to management personnel and employees in the ordinary course of business, (g) Investments existing as of the date hereof; that any such Investment in excess of $2,000,000 is set forth on , (h) Investments consisting of non-cash consideration received in the form of securities, notes or similar obligations in connection with any conveyance, sale, lease, assignment, transfer or other disposition of any Property by the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries to any Person, and which are permitted hereunder, and (i) any other Investment as long as(i) on the date of such Investment, no Event of Default exists and (ii) after giving effect to such Investment no Default or Event of Default shall exist.
Permitted Investments
provided
Schedule 8.6
          "" means (a) Liens securing Credit Party Obligations, if any, (b) Liens for taxes not yet due or Liens for taxes being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves determined in accordance with GAAP have been established (and as to which the Property subject to any such Lien is not yet subject to foreclosure, sale, collection, levy or loss on account thereof), (c) Liens in respect of Property imposed by law arising in the ordinary course of business such as materialmen's, mechanics', warehousemen's, carrier's, landlords' and other nonconsensual statutory Liens which are not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves determined in accordance with GAAP have been established (and as to which the Property subject to any such Lien is not yet subject to foreclosure, sale or loss on account thereof), (d) Liens (other than Liens imposed under ERISA) consisting of pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure payment of worker's compensation insurance, unemployment insurance, pensions or social security programs, (e) Liens arising from good faith deposits in connection with or to secure performance of tenders, bids, leases, government contracts, performance and return-of-money bonds and other similar obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business (other than obligations in respect of
Permitted Liens
the payment of borrowed money), (f) Liens arising from good faith deposits in connection with or to secure performance of statutory obligations and surety and appeal bonds, (g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions (including zoning restrictions), matters of plat, minor defects or irregularities in title and other similar charges or encumbrances not, in any material respect, impairing the use of the encumbered Property for its intended purposes, (h) judgment Liens that would not constitute an Event of Default, (i) Liens in connection with Indebtedness of the type permitted by Section 8.1(e) incurred by any Subsidiary, (j) Liens arising by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of setoff or similar rights as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution, (k) Liens existing on the date hereof and identified on , (l) Liens upon Property acquired (or the Property of a Subsidiary that is acquired) after the Closing Date by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, which Liens either (i) existed on such Property before the time of such acquisition and was not created in anticipation thereof or (ii) were created solely for the purpose of securing Indebtedness representing, or incurred to finance or refinance, the cost of such Property or improvements thereon; , ; that (A) no such Lien shall extend to or cover any Property of any Credit Party other than the Property so acquired and improvements thereon and proceeds thereof, (B) the principal amount of Indebtedness secured by any such Lien shall at no time exceed 100% of the fair market value of such Property at the time it was acquired or constructed and (C) the Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is permitted hereunder; that (x) no such Lien shall extend to any Property other than the Property subject thereto on the closing date of such acquisition and (y) the principal amount of the Indebtedness secured by such Liens shall not be increased, (m) Liens in connection with Permitted Receivables Financing, (n) Liens with respect to lease filings for notice purposes only, (o) Liens on purchase money Indebtedness incurred by the Borrower in an amount not to exceed, in the aggregate, $100,000,000 less Indebtedness incurred by Subsidiaries of the Borrower pursuant to Section 8.1(e), (p) Liens on Property of non-wholly owned Subsidiaries of the Borrower incurred to finance working capital, (q) Liens on Property of Foreign Subsidiaries securing Indebtedness of the type permitted by Section 8.1(k) incurred by Foreign Subsidiaries, and (r) renewals and extensions of the foregoing so long as such Lien (i) does not cover any additional Property, (ii) does not secure additional Indebtedness and (iii) is not otherwise prohibited by this Credit Agreement.
Schedule 8.2
provided
however
provided
          "" means any transaction entered into pursuant to documentation reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent in which (a) one or more Credit Parties sells, conveys or otherwise transfers to Quest Receivables and (b) Quest Receivables sells, conveys or otherwise transfers to any other Person or grants a security interest to any Person in, any Receivables (whether now existing or hereafter acquired) of a Credit Party, and any assets related thereto including all collateral securing such Receivables, all contracts and all Guaranty Obligations or other obligations in respect of such Receivables, all proceeds of such Receivables and all other assets that are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving Receivables.
Permitted Receivables Financing
          "" means any individual, partnership, joint venture, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust or other enterprise (whether or not incorporated), or any Governmental Authority.
Person
          "" means any employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) which is covered by ERISA and with respect to which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any
Plan
ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated at such time, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" within the meaning of Section 3(5) of ERISA.
          "" has the meaning given thereto in Section 7.1(i).
Platform
          "" means the per annum rate of interest established from time to time by the Administrative Agent at its principal office in Charlotte, North Carolina (or such other principal office of the Administrative Agent as communicated in writing to the Borrower and the Lenders) as its Prime Rate. Any change in the interest rate resulting from a change in the Prime Rate shall become effective as of 12:01 a.m. of the Business Day on which each change in the Prime Rate is announced by the Administrative Agent. The Prime Rate is a reference rate used by the Administrative Agent in determining interest rates on some loans which may be priced at, above or below such announced rate and is not intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged on any extension of credit to any debtor.
Prime Rate
          "" means any real property and any related buildings, fixtures or other improvements located in the United States owned by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (a) on or in which one of its 30 largest domestic clinical laboratories conducts operations, as determined by net revenues for the four most recent fiscal quarters for which financial statements have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or (b) the net book value of which at the time of the determination exceeds 1% of Total Assets.
Principal Property
          "" has the meaning given thereto in Section 5.1(j).
Projections
          "" means any right, title or interest in or to any property or asset of any kind whatsoever, whether real, personal or mixed and whether tangible or intangible.
Property
          "" has the meaning given thereto in Section 7.1(i).
Public Lender
          "" means Quest Diagnostics Receivables Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote, special purpose Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Quest Receivables
          "" has the meaning given thereto in Section 6.19.
Real Properties
          "" means the indebtedness and payment obligations of any Person to any Credit Party or acquired by any Credit Party (including obligations constituting an account or general intangible or evidenced by a note, instrument, contract, security agreement, chattel paper or other evidence of indebtedness or security) arising from a sale of merchandise or the provision of services in the ordinary course of business by such Credit Party or the Person from which such indebtedness and payment obligation were acquired by any Credit Party, including (a) any right to payment for goods sold or for services rendered and (b) the right to payment of any interest, sales taxes, finance charges, returned check or late charges and other obligations of such Person with respect thereto.
Receivable
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Refinancing
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 11.3(c).
Register
          "" means Regulation T, U or X, respectively, of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor to all or a portion thereof.
Regulation T, U or X
          "" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than those events as to which the notice requirement has been waived by regulation or by the PBGC.
Reportable Event
          "" means Lenders whose aggregate Credit Exposure (as hereinafter defined) constitutes more than 50% of the Credit Exposure of all Lenders at such time; , , that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time then there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders the aggregate principal amount of Credit Exposure of such Lender at such time. For purposes hereof, the term "" as applied to each Lender shall mean (a) at any time prior to the termination of the Commitments, the sum of (x) the Revolving Loan Commitment Percentage of such Lender multiplied by the Revolving Committed Amount and (y) the Term Loan Commitment Percentage of such Lender multiplied by the Term Loan Committed Amount and (b) at any time after the termination of the Commitments, the sum of (i) the principal balance of the outstanding Loans of such Lender plus (ii) such Lender's Participation Interests in the face amount of the outstanding Letters of Credit and outstanding Swing Line Loans.
Required Lenders
provided
however
Credit Exposure
          "" means, as to any Person, the articles or certificate of incorporation and by-laws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation or final, non-appealable determination of an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or to which any of its material Property is subject.
Requirement of Law
          "" means (a) with respect to any Loan, each of the following: (i) each date of a borrowing of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in an Alternative Currency pursuant to Section 2.7, and (iii) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require; and (b) with respect to any Letter of Credit, each of the following: (i) each date of issuance of a Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency, (ii) each date of an amendment of any such Letter of Credit having the effect of increasing the amount thereof (solely with respect to the increased amount), (iii) each date of any payment by the Issuing Lender under any Letter of Credit denominated in an Alternative Currency and (iv) such additional dates as the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lender shall determine or the Required Lenders shall require.
Revaluation Date
          "" means SEVEN HUNDRED AND FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($750,000,000) or such lesser amount to which the Revolving Committed Amount may be reduced pursuant to Section 2.2(d) or increased pursuant to Section 2.2(e).
Revolving Committed Amount
          "" has the meaning given to it in the second recital.
Revolving Credit Facility
          "" means, for each Lender, the percentage identified as its Revolving Loan Commitment Percentage on , as such percentage
Revolving Loan Commitment Percentage
Schedule 1.1(a)
may be modified in connection with any assignment made in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.3 and with any Incremental Revolving Loan Commitment.
          "" means the Revolving Loans made to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.2.
Revolving Loans
          "" means the promissory notes of the Borrower in favor of each of the Lenders evidencing the Revolving Loans provided pursuant to Section 2.2, individually or collectively, as appropriate, as such promissory notes may be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed or replaced from time to time and as evidenced in the form of .
Revolving Notes
Exhibit 2.2(f)
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or any successor or assignee of the business of such division in the business of rating securities.
S&P
          "" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries of any Principal Property that has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Borrower or any Guarantor to such Person, as the case may be.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
          "" means (a) with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds, and (b) with respect to disbursements and payments in an Alternative Currency, same day or other funds as may be determined by the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lender, as the case may be, to be customary in the place of disbursement or payment for the settlement of international banking transactions in the relevant Alternative Currency.
Same Day Funds
          "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.
Securities Act
          "" has the meaning given to it in the second recital.
Senior Credit Facilities
          "" means any Plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA, but which is not a Multiemployer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Single Employer Plan
          "" means the Social Security Act as set forth in Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations issued thereunder, in each case as in effect from time to time. References to sections of the Social Security Act shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections.
Social Security Act
          "" means, with respect to any Person as of a particular date, that on such date (a) such Person is able to pay its debts and other liabilities, contingent obligations and other commitments as they mature in the normal course of business, (b) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or liabilities beyond such Person's ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature in their ordinary course, (c) such Person is not engaged in a business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in a business or a transaction, for which such Person's assets would constitute unreasonably small capital after giving due consideration to the prevailing practice in the industry in which such Person is engaged or is to engage, (d) the fair value of the assets of such Person is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, contingent
Solvent
liabilities, of such Person and (e) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its debts as they become absolute and matured. In computing the amount of contingent liabilities at any time, it is intended that such liabilities will be computed at the amount which, in light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability reduced by the amount of any contribution or indemnity that can reasonably be expected to be received.
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.3(g).
SPC
          "" means at any time an Alternative Currency, other than the currency of a country that is a member of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development at such time located in North America or Europe.
Special Notice Currency
          "" for a currency means the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate quoted by the Person acting in such capacity as the spot rate for the purchase by such Person of such currency with another currency through its principal foreign exchange trading office at approximately 11:00 a.m. on the date two Business Days prior to the date as of which the foreign exchange computation is made; that the Administrative Agent may obtain such spot rate from another financial institution designated by the Administrative Agent if the Person acting in such capacity does not have as of the date of determination a spot buying rate for any such currency.
Spot Rate
provided
          "" and "" mean the lawful currency of the United Kingdom.
Sterling
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.9.
Stock Repurchase
          "" means all Investments in Persons in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries own less than 50% of the Voting Stock of such Person.
Strategic Investment Portfolio
          "" means, as to any Person, (a) any corporation more than 50% of whose stock of any class or classes having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time, any class or classes of such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time owned by such Person directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries, and (b) any partnership, association, joint venture or other entity in which such person directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries has more than a 50% equity interest at any time.
Subsidiary
          "" means FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($50,000,000).
Swing Line Committed Amount
          "" means Bank of America.
Swing Line Lender
          "" means the loans made by the Swing Line Lender pursuant to Section 2.4.
Swing Line Loans
          "" means the promissory note of the Borrower in favor of the Swing Line Lender evidencing the Swing Line Loans provided pursuant to Section 2.4, as such promissory note may be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed or replaced from time to time in and as evidenced by the form of .
Swing Line Loan Note
Exhibit 2.4(d)
          "" means a request by the Borrower for a Swing Line Loan in substantially the form of .
Swing Line Loan Request
Exhibit 2.4(b)
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Syndication Agent
          "" means any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing product where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP.
Synthetic Lease
          "" means any day on which the Trans-European Automated Real-time Gross Settlement Express Transfer (TARGET) payment system (or, if such payment system ceases to be operative, such other payment system (if any) determined by the Administrative Agent to be a suitable replacement) is open for the settlement of payments in Euro.
TARGET Day
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 3.13(a).
Taxes
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 5.1(f).
10% Subordinated Note Tender Offer
          "" means the costs incurred by the Borrower in connection with any tender for outstanding indebtedness of the Borrower, and the termination of the interest rate swap contracts related thereto in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 during the term of this Credit Agreement.
Tender Costs
          "" means, for each Lender, the percentage identified as its Term Loan Commitment Percentage on , as such percentage may be modified in connection with any assignment made in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.3.
Term Loan Commitment Percentage
Schedule 1.1(a)
          "" means ONE BILLION SIX HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS ($1,600,000,000).
Term Loan Committed Amount
          "" has the meaning given to it in the second recital.
Term Loan Facility
          "" means the Term Loans made to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.1.
Term Loans
          "" means the promissory notes of the Borrower in favor of each of the Lenders evidencing the Term Loans provided pursuant to Section 2.1, individually or collectively, as appropriate, as such promissory notes may be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed or replaced from time to time and as evidenced in the form of .
Term Notes
Exhibit 2.1(c)
          "" means the date on which the Merger Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 10.1 of the Merger Agreement (as in effect on the date hereof).
Termination Date
          "" means all items that in accordance with GAAP would be classified as assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Total Assets
          "" has the meaning given to it in the second recital.
Transaction
          "" means the United States Department of Defense health care program for service families including, but not limited to, TRICARE Prime, TRICARE Extra and TRICARE Standard, and any successor to or predecessor thereof (including, without limitation, CHAMPUS).
TRICARE
          "" means all classes of the Capital Stock of such Person then outstanding and normally entitled to vote in the election of directors (or similar governing authority).
Voting Stock
.
                    1.2
Other Interpretive Provisions
          With reference to this Credit Agreement and each other Credit Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Credit Document:
          (a) The meanings of defined terms are equally applicable to the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.
          (b) (i) The words "", "", "" and "" and words of similar import when used in any Credit Document shall refer to such Credit Document as a whole and not to any particular provisions thereof.
herein
hereto
hereof
hereunder
          (ii) Article, Section, Exhibit and Schedule references are to the Credit Document in which such reference appears.
          (iii) The term "" is by way of example and not limitation.
including
          (iv) the term "" includes any and all instruments, documents, agreements, certificates, notices, reports, financial statements and other writings, however evidenced, whether in physical or electronic form.
documents
          (c) In the computation of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means ""; the words "" and "" each mean ""; and the word "" means "".
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
through
to and including
          (d) Section headings herein and in the other Credit Documents are included for convenience of reference only and shall not affect the interpretation of this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document.
.
                    1.3
Accounting Terms/Calculation of Financial Covenants
          (a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, and all financial statements and certificates and reports as to financial matters required to be delivered to the Lenders hereunder shall be prepared, in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis. All calculations made for the purposes of determining compliance with this Credit Agreement shall (except as otherwise expressly provided herein) be made by application of GAAP applied on a basis consistent with the most recent annual or quarterly financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 7.1 (or, prior to the delivery of the first financial statements pursuant to Section 7.1, consistent with the financial statements delivered to the Lenders prior to the Closing Date); , , if (a) the Borrower shall object to determining
provided
however
such compliance on such basis at the time of delivery of such financial statements due to any change in GAAP or the rules promulgated with respect thereto or (b) the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders shall so object in writing within 30 days after delivery of such financial statements, then such calculations shall be made on a basis consistent with GAAP as in effect as of the date of the most recent financial statements delivered by the Borrower to the Lenders to which no such objection shall have been made.
          (b) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, for the purposes of calculating the financial covenants set forth in Section 7.2, (i) income statement items (positive or negative) attributable to any Person or Property acquired in a Permitted Acquisition and Indebtedness incurred in connection with such Permitted Acquisition shall, without duplication, be treated as if such Person or Property was acquired or such Indebtedness incurred as of the first day of the twelve month period ending as of the most recently completely fiscal quarter of the Borrower and (ii) income statement items (positive or negative) attributable to Property disposed of in any asset sale permitted by Section 8.5(g) and Indebtedness retired in connection with such sale shall, without duplication, be treated as if such sale occurred as of the first day of the twelve month period ending as of the most recently completed fiscal quarter of the Borrower.
.
                    1.4
Time
          All references to time herein shall be references to Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Time, as the case may be, unless specified otherwise.
.
                    1.5
Rounding
          Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Credit Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
.
                    1.6
Exchange Rates; Currency Equivalents
          (a) The Administrative Agent shall determine the Spot Rates as of each Revaluation Date to be used for calculating Dollar Equivalent amounts of Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies. Such Spot Rates shall become effective as of such Revaluation Date and shall be the Spot Rates employed in converting any amounts between the applicable currencies until the next Revaluation Date to occur. Except for purposes of financial statements delivered by the Borrower hereunder or calculating financial covenants hereunder or except as otherwise provided herein, the applicable amount of any currency (other than Dollars) for purposes of the Credit Documents shall be such Dollar Equivalent amount as so determined by the Administrative Agent.
          (b) Wherever in this Agreement in connection with a borrowing, conversion, continuation or prepayment of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or the issuance, amendment or extension of a Letter of Credit, an amount, such as a required minimum or multiple
amount, is expressed in Dollars, but such borrowing, Eurocurrency Rate Loan or Letter of Credit is denominated in an Alternative Currency, such amount shall be the relevant Alternative Currency Equivalent of such Dollar amount (rounded to the nearest unit of such Alternative Currency, with 0.5 of a unit being rounded upward), as determined by the Administrative Agent.
.
                    1.7
Additional Alternative Currencies
                    (a) The Borrower may from time to time request that Eurocurrency Rate Loans be made in a currency other than those specifically listed in the definition of "Alternative Currency;" provided that such requested currency is a lawful currency (other than Dollars) that is readily available and freely transferable and convertible into Dollars. In the case of any such request with respect to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans, such request shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
                    (b) Any such request shall be made to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m., 20 Business Days prior to the date of the desired making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans (or such other time or date as may be agreed by the Administrative Agent). In the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender thereof. Each Lender (in the case of any such request pertaining to Eurocurrency Rate Loans) shall notify the Administrative Agent, not later than 11:00 a.m., ten Business Days after receipt of such request whether it consents, in its sole discretion, to the making of Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency.
                    (c) Any failure by a Lender to respond to such request within the time period specified in the preceding sentence shall be deemed to be a refusal by such Lender to permit Eurocurrency Rate Loans to be made in such requested currency. If the Administrative Agent and all the Lenders consent to making Eurocurrency Rate Loans in such requested currency, the Administrative Agent shall so notify the Borrower and such currency shall thereupon be deemed for all purposes to be an Alternative Currency hereunder for purposes of any borrowings of Eurocurrency Rate Loans. If the Administrative Agent shall fail to obtain consent to any request for an additional currency under this Section 1.7, the Administrative Agent shall promptly so notify the Borrower.
.
                    1.8
Change of Currency
                    (a) Each obligation of the Borrower to make a payment denominated in the national currency unit of any member state of the European Union that adopts the Euro as its lawful currency after the date hereof shall be redenominated into Euro at the time of such adoption (in accordance with the EMU Legislation). If, in relation to the currency of any such member state, the basis of accrual of interest expressed in this Agreement in respect of that currency shall be inconsistent with any convention or practice in the London interbank market for the basis of accrual of interest in respect of the Euro, such expressed basis shall be replaced by such convention or practice with effect from the date on which such member state adopts the Euro as its lawful currency; provided that if any
borrowing in the currency of such member state is outstanding immediately prior to such date, such replacement shall take effect, with respect to such borrowing, at the end of the then current Interest Period.
                    (b) Each provision of this Agreement shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect the adoption of the Euro by any member state of the European Union and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the Euro.
                    (c) Each provision of this Agreement also shall be subject to such reasonable changes of construction as the Administrative Agent may from time to time specify to be appropriate to reflect a change in currency of any other country and any relevant market conventions or practices relating to the change in currency.
.
                    1.9
References to Agreements and Laws
          Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (a) references to organization documents, agreements (including the Credit Documents) and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent that such amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications are not prohibited by any Credit Document and (b) references to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions (having the force of law) consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting such law.
.
                    1.10
Letter of Credit Amounts
          Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to mean the maximum face amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all increases thereof contemplated by such Letter of Credit or the LOC Documents related thereto, whether or not such maximum face amount is in effect at such time.
.
                    2.1
Term Loans
                    (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender with a Commitment to make Term Loans severally agrees to make a single loan to the Borrower on the Closing Date (each a "" and collectively the ""), in Dollars, in an amount equal to such Lender's Term Loan Commitment Percentage of the Term Loan Committed Amount; that the aggregate amount of such Term Loans made by all Term Loan Lenders shall not exceed the Term Loan Committed Amount. Once repaid or prepaid, Term Loans cannot be reborrowed.
Term Loan Commitment
Term Loan
Term Loans
provided
                    (b) . Each Lender shall make its Term Loan Commitment Percentage of the Term Loan Committed Amount available to the Administrative Agent by 1:00 p.m. on the Closing Date by deposit, in Dollars, of immediately available funds at the Agency Services Address. The amount of the Term Loans will then be made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent as directed by the Borrower, to the extent the amount of such Term Loans are made available to the Administrative Agent. All Term Loans made on the Closing Date shall be Base Rate Loans unless the Borrower delivers a funding indemnity letter in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent at least three (3) Business Days prior to the Closing Date. Thereafter, all or any portion of the Term Loans may be converted into Eurocurrency Rate Loans in accordance with the terms of Section 2.7. The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Term Loans and to make payments pursuant to Section 10.7 are several and not joint. No Lender shall be responsible for the failure or delay by any other Lender in its obligation to make Term Loans hereunder; , , that the failure of any Lender to fulfill its obligations hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified by any Lender prior to the Closing Date that such Lender does not intend to make available to the Administrative Agent its portion of the Term Loans, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such amount available to the Administrative Agent on the Closing Date, and the Administrative Agent in reliance upon such assumption may (in its sole discretion but without any obligation to do so) make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. If such Lender's portion of the Term Loans is not in fact made available to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent shall be able to recover from such Lender an amount equal to such corresponding amount which the Administrative Agent has made available to the Borrower. If such Lender does not pay such amount upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Borrower, and the Borrower shall immediately pay such amount to the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover from such Lender or the Borrower, as the case may be, interest on such amount in respect of each day from the date an amount equal to such corresponding amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower to the date such corresponding amount is recovered by the Administrative Agent at a per annum rate equal to (i) from the Borrower at the Base Rate or (ii) from such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to, during the period to but excluding the date two Business Days after demand therefor, the Federal Funds Rate, and, thereafter, the Base Rate plus two percent (2%) per annum.
Funding of Term Loans
provided
however
                    (c) . The Term Loans made by each Lender shall be evidenced by a duly executed promissory note of the Borrower to each Lender that requests an Term Note in substantially the form of .
Term Notes
Exhibit 2.1(c)
.
                    2.2
Revolving Loans
                    (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, including but not limited to Section 5.2, each Lender severally agrees to make revolving loans (each a "" and collectively the "") to the Borrower, in Dollars or in one or more Alternative Currencies, in an amount equal
Revolving Loan Commitment
Revolving Loan
Revolving Loans
to its Revolving Loan Commitment Percentage, if any, of such Revolving Loan, at any time and from time to time, during the period from and including the Closing Date to but not including the Maturity Date (or such earlier date if the Commitments have been terminated as provided herein); , , that, after giving effect to any borrowing of Revolving Loans, the sum of (i) the aggregate amount of the Dollar Equivalent of Revolving Loans outstanding, (ii) the aggregate amount of LOC Obligations outstanding, (iii) the aggregate amount of Competitive Bid Loans outstanding (iv) the aggregate amount of Swing Line Loans outstanding shall not exceed the Revolving Committed Amount, and the Dollar Equivalent of the Revolving Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies at any time shall not exceed $100,000,000. Subject to the terms of this Credit Agreement, the Borrower may borrow, repay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
provided
however
plus
plus
plus
                    (b) . By no later than 11:00 a.m. (i) on the date of the requested borrowing of Revolving Loans that will be made as Base Rate Loans or (ii) three Business Days prior to the date of the requested borrowing of Revolving Loans that will be made as Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, and (iii) four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the date of the requested borrowing of Revolving Loans that will be Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, the Borrower shall provide telephonic notice to the Administrative Agent, followed promptly by a written Notice of Borrowing in the form of (which may be submitted by telecopy), each of such telephonic notice and such written Notice of Borrowing setting forth (A) the amount requested, (B) whether such Revolving Loans shall accrue interest at the Base Rate or the Eurocurrency Rate, (C) with respect to Revolving Loans that will be Eurocurrency Rate Loans, the Interest Period applicable thereto and (D) certification that the Borrower has complied in all respects with Section 5.2. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars or of any conversion of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars to Base Rate Loans, (ii) four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of any borrowing or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, and (iii) on the requested date of any borrowing of Base Rate Loans; , , that if the Borrower wishes to request Eurocurrency Rate Loans having an Interest Period other than one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "Interest Period," the applicable notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (i) four Business Days prior to the requested date of such borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, or (ii) five Business Days (or six Business days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the requested date of such borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Alternative Currencies, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Lenders of such request and determine whether the requested Interest Period is acceptable to all of them. Not later than 11:00 a.m., (i) three Business Days before the requested date of such borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in Dollars, or (ii) four Business Days (or five Business days in the case of a Special Notice
Method of Borrowing for Revolving Loans
Exhibit 2.2(b)
provided
however
          No Lender shall be responsible for the failure or delay by any other Lender in its obligation to make Revolving Loans hereunder; , , that the failure of any Lender to fulfill its obligations hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified by any Lender prior to the date of any such Revolving Loan that such Lender does not intend to make available to the Administrative Agent its portion of the Revolving Loans to be made on such date, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such amount available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such Revolving Loans, and the Administrative Agent in reliance upon such assumption may (in its sole discretion but without any obligation to do so) make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. If such Lender's portion of the Revolving Loans is not in fact made available to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent shall be able to recover from such Lender an amount equal to such corresponding amount which the Administrative Agent has made available to the Borrower. If such Lender does not pay such amount upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Borrower, and the Borrower shall immediately pay such amount to the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover from such Lender or the Borrower, as the case may be, interest on such amount in respect of each day from the date an amount equal to such corresponding amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower to the date such corresponding amount is recovered by the Administrative Agent at a per annum rate equal to (i) from the Borrower at the applicable rate for such Revolving Loan pursuant to the Notice of Borrowing or (ii) from such Lender, at the Overnight Rate, plus any administrative, processing or similar fees customarily charged by the Administrative Agent in connection with the foregoing.
provided
however
          Subject to the terms below, the Borrower shall have the option, on any Business Day, to continue existing Eurocurrency Rate Loans for a subsequent Interest Period, to convert Base Rate Loans into Eurocurrency Rate Loans or to convert Eurocurrency Rate Loans into Base Rate Loans. By no later than 11:00 a.m. (a) on the date of the requested conversion of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars to a Base Rate Loan or (b) three Business Days prior to the date of the requested continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars or conversion of a Base Rate Loan to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Dollars or (c) four Business Days (or five Business Days in the case of a Special Notice Currency) prior to the date of the requested continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan denominated in Alternative Currencies, the Borrower shall provide telephonic notice to the Administrative Agent, followed promptly by a written Notice of Continuation/Conversion, in the form of setting forth (i) whether the Borrower wishes to continue or convert such Loans and (ii) if the request is to continue a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or convert a Base Rate Loan to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Interest Period applicable thereto. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (A) except as provided in Section 3.11, Eurocurrency Rate Loans may only be continued or converted into Base Rate Loans on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (B) Eurocurrency Rate Loans may not be continued nor may Base Rate Loans be converted into Eurocurrency Rate Loans during the existence and continuation of a Default or an Event of Default, (C) any request to continue a Eurocurrency Rate Loan that fails to comply with the terms hereof or any failure to request a continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan at the end of an Interest Period shall constitute a conversion to a Base Rate Loan on the last day of the applicable Interest Period , , that in the case of a failure to timely request a continuation of Eurocurrency Rate Loans denominated in an Alternative Currency, such Loans shall be continued as Eurocurrency Rate Loans in their original currency with an Interest Period of one month, and (D) any failure to state the Interest Period with respect to the continuation of a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or the conversion of a Base Rate Loan to a Eurocurrency Rate Loan shall constitute a request for a one month Interest Period. No Revolving Loans may be converted into or continued as a Revolving Loan denominated in a different currency, but instead must be prepaid in the original currency of such Revolving Loan and reborrowed in the other currency. It is understood and agreed that Competitive Bid Loans and Swing Line Loans may not be continued or converted.
Exhibit 2.7
provided
however
          Each request for a borrowing, conversion or continuation shall be subject to the requirements that (a) each Eurocurrency Rate Loan and each Competitive Bid Loan shall be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000 and in integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (b) each Base Rate Loan shall be in a minimum amount of the lesser of $5,000,000 (and in integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof) or the remaining amount available under the Revolving Committed
Amount, (c) each Swing Line Loan shall be in a minimum amount of the lesser of $1,000,000 (and in integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof) or the remaining amount available under the Swing Line Committed Amount and (d) no more than ten Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be outstanding hereunder at any one time. For the purposes of this Section 2.8, all Eurocurrency Rate Loans with the same Interest Periods that begin and end on the same date shall be considered as one Eurocurrency Rate Loan, but Eurocurrency Rate Loans with different Interest Periods, even if they begin on the same date, shall be considered as separate Eurocurrency Rate Loans.
specified herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent may require that any payments due under this Agreement be made in the United States. If, for any reason, any Borrower is prohibited by any Law from making any required payment hereunder in an Alternative Currency, such Borrower shall make such payment in Dollars in the Dollar Equivalent of the Alternative Currency payment amount. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its pro rata share of such payment (based upon the applicable Commitments of the Lenders) in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent (i) after 2:00 p.m., in the case of payments in Dollars, or (ii) after the Applicable Time specified by the Administrative Agent in the case of payments in an Alternative Currency, shall in each case be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by any Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
.
                    3.9
Capital Adequacy/Regulation D
          (a) If, after the date thereof, any Lender determines that the introduction after the Closing Date of any law, rule or regulation or other Requirement of Law regarding capital adequacy or any change therein or in the interpretation thereof, or compliance by such Lender (or its Lending Office) therewith, has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on the capital or assets of such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender as a consequence of such Lender's obligations hereunder (taking into consideration its policies with respect to capital adequacy and such Lender's desired return on capital), then from time to time upon demand of such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Lender such additional amounts as will compensate such Lender for such reduction.
          (b) The Borrower shall pay to each Lender, as long as such Lender shall be required under regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America to maintain reserves with respect to liabilities or assets consisting of or including Eurocurrency funds or deposits (currently known as ""), additional interest on the unpaid principal amount of each Eurocurrency Rate Loan equal to (i) (A) the applicable Eurocurrency Rate divided by (B) one minus the Eurocurrency Reserve Percentage (ii) the applicable Eurocurrency Rate. Such additional interest shall be due and payable on each date on which interest is payable on such Loan; the Borrower shall have received at least five days' prior notice (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) of such additional interest from such Lender. If a Lender fails to give notice five days prior to the relevant Interest Payment Date, such additional interest shall be due and payable five days from the receipt by the Borrower of such notice.
Eurocurrency Liabilities
minus
provided
.
                    3.10
Inability To Determine Interest Rate
          If the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon the Borrower) in connection with any request for a Eurocurrency Rate Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore Dollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurocurrency Rate for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, or (c) the Eurocurrency Rate for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to the Lenders of funding such Eurocurrency Rate Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Borrower and all the Lenders. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent revokes such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Continuation/Conversion with respect to Eurocurrency Rate Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a borrowing of or conversion into a Base Rate Loan in the amount specified therein.
.
                    3.11
Illegality
          If any Lender determines that any Requirement of Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurocurrency Rate Loans, or materially restricts the authority
of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the applicable offshore Dollar market, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurocurrency Rate, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurocurrency Rate Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurocurrency Rate Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurocurrency Rate Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period thereof, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurocurrency Rate Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay interest on the amount so prepaid or converted, together with any amounts due with respect thereto pursuant to Section 3.14. Each Lender agrees to designate a different Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for such notice and will not, in the good faith judgment of such Lender, otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender.
.
                    3.12
Requirements of Law
          If any Lender determines that as a result of the introduction of or any change in, or in the interpretation of, any Requirement of Law, or such Lender's compliance therewith, there shall be any increase in the cost to such Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurocurrency Rate Loans or (as the case may be) issuing or participating in Letters of Credit, or a reduction in the amount received or receivable by such Lender in connection with any of the foregoing (excluding for purposes of this subsection (a) any such increased costs or reduction in amount resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 3.13 shall govern) and (ii) reserve requirements utilized in the determination of the Eurocurrency Rate), then from time to time, within 10 days of demand of such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Lender such additional amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction in yield.
.
                    3.13
Taxes
                    (d) any assignment required pursuant to Section 2.2(e)(iii), Section 3.17 or Section 11.6.
The amount each such Lender shall be compensated pursuant to this Section 3.14 shall include, without limitation, (i) any loss incurred by such Lender in connection with the re-employment of funds prepaid, repaid, not borrowed or paid, as the case may be and (ii) any reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including Attorney Costs) incurred and reasonably attributable thereto.
For purposes of calculating amounts payable by the Borrower to the Lenders under this Section 3.14, each Lender may deem that it funded each Eurocurrency Rate Loan made by it at the Eurocurrency Rate for such Eurocurrency Rate Loan by a matching deposit or other borrowing in the applicable offshore interbank markets for such currency for a comparable amount and for a comparable period, whether or not such Eurocurrency Rate Loan was in fact so funded.
.
                    3.15
Determination and Survival of Provisions
          All determinations by the Administrative Agent or a Lender of amounts owing under Sections 3.9 through 3.14, inclusive, shall, absent manifest error, be conclusive and binding on the parties hereto. In determining such amount, the Administrative Agent or such Lender may use any reasonable averaging and attribution methods. Section 3.9 through 3.14, inclusive, shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement and the payment of all Credit Party Obligations.
.
                    3.16
Notification by Lenders
          Subject to Section 3.13(c), each Lender shall notify the Borrower (and any applicable Credit Party) of any event that will entitle such Lender to compensation under Section 3.9, 3.12, 3.13 or 3.14 as promptly as practicable, but in any event within 90 days after such Lender obtains actual knowledge thereof; , , that if any Lender fails to give such notice within 90 days after it obtains actual knowledge of such an event, such Lender shall, with respect to compensation payable pursuant to Section 3.9, 3.12, 3.13 or 3.14 in respect of any costs resulting from such event, only be entitled to payment under Section 3.9, 3.12, 3.13 or 3.14 for costs incurred from and after the date 90 days prior to the date that such Lender gives such notice. If requested by the Borrower, each Lender will furnish to Borrower within ten Business Days of the time the Lender requests compensation under Section 3.9, 3.12, 3.13 or 3.14, a certificate setting forth the basis, amount and reasonable detail of computation of each request by such Lender for
provided
however
compensation under Section 3.9, 3.12, 3.13 or 3.14, which certificate shall, except for demonstrable error, be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes.
.
                    3.17
Mitigation; Mandatory Assignment
          Each Lender shall use reasonable efforts to avoid or mitigate any increased cost or suspension of the availability of an interest rate under Sections 3.9 through 3.14 above to the greatest extent practicable (including transferring the Loans to another Lending Office or Affiliate of a Lender) unless, in the reasonable opinion of such Lender, such efforts would be likely to have an adverse effect upon it. In the event a Lender makes a request to the Borrower for additional payments in accordance with Section 3.9, 3.11, 3.12, 3.13 or 3.14, then, that no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing at such time, the Borrower may, at its own expense (such expense to include, without limitation, any transfer fee payable to the Administrative Agent under Section 11.3(b)) and in its sole discretion, require such Lender to transfer and assign in whole (but not in part), without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the terms and conditions of Section 11.3(b)), all of its interests, rights and obligations under this Credit Agreement to an Eligible Assignee which shall assume such assigned obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (a) such assignment shall not conflict with any law, rule or regulation or order of any court or other Governmental Authority and (b) the Borrower or such assignee shall have paid to the assigning Lender in immediately available funds the principal of and interest accrued to the date of such payment on the portion of the Loans hereunder held by such assigning Lender and all other amounts owed to such assigning Lender hereunder, including amounts owed pursuant to Sections 3.9 through 3.14 hereof.
provided
provided
.
                    4.1
Guaranty of Payment
          Subject to Section 4.7 below, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to each Lender and the Administrative Agent the prompt payment of the Credit Party Obligations in full when due (whether at stated maturity, as a mandatory prepayment, by acceleration or otherwise) and the timely performance of all other obligations under the Credit Documents. This Guaranty is a guaranty of payment and not of collection and is a continuing guaranty and shall apply to all Credit Party Obligations whenever arising.
.
                    4.2
Obligations Unconditional
          The obligations of the Guarantors hereunder are absolute and unconditional, irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of any of the Credit Documents, or any other agreement or instrument referred to therein, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any other circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. Each Guarantor agrees that this Guaranty may be enforced by the Lenders without the necessity at any time of resorting to or exhausting any other security or collateral and without the necessity at any time of having recourse to the Notes or
any other of the Credit Documents or any collateral, if any, hereafter securing the Credit Party Obligations or otherwise and each Guarantor hereby waives the right to require the Lenders to proceed against the Borrower or any other Person (including a co-guarantor) or to require the Lenders to pursue any other remedy or enforce any other right. Each Guarantor further agrees that it shall have no right of subrogation, indemnity, reimbursement or contribution against the Borrower or any other Guarantor of the Credit Party Obligations for amounts paid under this Guaranty until such time as the Lenders have been paid in full and all Commitments under the Credit Agreement have been terminated. Each Guarantor further agrees that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Lenders from suing on the Notes or any of the other Credit Documents or foreclosing its security interest in or Lien on any collateral, if any, securing the Credit Party Obligations or from exercising any other rights available to it under this Credit Agreement, the Notes, any other of the Credit Documents, or any other instrument of security, if any, and the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights and the completion of any foreclosure proceedings shall not constitute a discharge of any of any Guarantor's obligations hereunder; it being the purpose and intent of each Guarantor that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute, independent and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Neither any Guarantor's obligations under this Guaranty nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Borrower or by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Borrower. Each Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Credit Party Obligations and notice of or proof of reliance of by the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon this Guaranty or acceptance of this Guaranty. The Credit Party Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guaranty. All dealings between the Borrower and any of the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the other hand, likewise shall be conclusively presumed to have been had or consummated in reliance upon this Guaranty. The Guarantors further agree to all rights of set-off as set forth in Section 11.2.
.
                    4.3
Modifications
          Each Guarantor agrees that (a) all or any part of the collateral, if any, now or hereafter held for the Credit Party Obligations, if any, may be exchanged, compromised or surrendered from time to time; (b) the Lenders shall not have any obligation to protect, perfect, secure or insure any such security interests, liens or encumbrances now or hereafter held, if any, for the Credit Party Obligations or the properties subject thereto; (c) the time or place of payment of the Credit Party Obligations may be changed or extended, in whole or in part, to a time certain or otherwise, and may be renewed or accelerated, in whole or in part; (d) the Borrower and any other party liable for payment under the Credit Documents may be granted indulgences generally; (e) any of the provisions of the Notes or any of the other Credit Documents may be modified, amended or waived; (f) any party (including any co-guarantor) liable for the payment thereof may be granted indulgences or be released; and (g) any deposit balance for the credit of the Borrower or any other party liable for the payment of the Credit Party Obligations or liable upon any security therefor may be released, in whole or in part, at, before or after the stated, extended or accelerated maturity of the Credit Party Obligations, all without notice to or further assent by such Guarantor, which shall remain bound thereon, notwithstanding any such exchange, compromise, surrender, extension, renewal, acceleration, modification, indulgence or release.
.
                    4.4
Waiver of Rights
          Each Guarantor expressly waives to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law: (a) notice of acceptance of this Guaranty by the Lenders and of all extensions of credit to the Borrower by the Lenders; (b) presentment and demand for payment or performance of any of the Credit Party Obligations; (c) protest and notice of dishonor or of default (except as specifically required in the Credit Agreement) with respect to the Credit Party Obligations or with respect to any security therefor; (d) notice of the Lenders obtaining, amending, substituting for, releasing, waiving or modifying any security interest, lien or encumbrance, if any, hereafter securing the Credit Party Obligations, or the Lenders' subordinating, compromising, discharging or releasing such security interests, liens or encumbrances, if any; and (e) all other notices to which such Guarantor might otherwise be entitled.
.
                    4.5
Reinstatement
          The obligations of the Guarantors under this Section 4 shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Credit Party Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the Credit Party Obligations, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise, and each Guarantor agrees that it will indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable Attorney Costs) incurred by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in connection with such rescission or restoration, including any such costs and expenses incurred in defending against any claim alleging that such payment constituted a preference, fraudulent transfer or similar payment under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law.
.
                    4.6
Remedies
          The Guarantors agree that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the other hand, the Credit Party Obligations may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in Section 9 (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in Section 9) notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing such Credit Party Obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against any other Person and that, in the event of such declaration (or such Credit Party Obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), such Credit Party Obligations (whether or not due and payable by any other Person) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors.
.
                    4.7
Limitation of Guaranty
          Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in any of the other Credit Documents, to the extent the obligations of any Guarantor shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers) then the obligations of such Guarantor hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state or otherwise and including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).
.
                    4.8
Rights of Contribution
          The Credit Parties agree among themselves that, in connection with payments made hereunder, each Credit Party shall have contribution rights against the other Credit Parties as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of the Credit Parties under the Credit Documents and no Credit Party shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Credit Party Obligations have been paid in full and the Commitments terminated.
.
                    4.9
Release of Guarantors
          Subject to Section 7.12(b), if any of the Guarantors shall cease to be a Material Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower for any reason subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement, then such Guarantor shall, automatically and without any further action on the part of any party to any Credit Document, and upon notice to the Administrative Agent, be fully released and discharged from all its liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Credit Documents to which such Guarantor is a party (other than liabilities and obligations resulting from a demand on such Guarantor's Guaranty pursuant to Section 9.2) and, promptly upon the request of the Borrower and at the expense of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall execute such documents and take such other action as is reasonably requested by the Borrower to evidence the release and discharge of such Guarantor from all such liabilities and obligations and shall, if applicable, certify to the Borrower that such Guarantor has no liabilities or obligations resulting from a demand on such Guarantor's Guaranty pursuant to Section 9.2.
.
                    5.1
Closing Conditions to Extensions of Credit Made on the Closing Date
          The obligation of the Lenders to make the initial Extensions of Credit is subject to satisfaction (or waiver) of the following conditions:
          In addition to the conditions precedent stated elsewhere herein, the Lenders shall not be obligated to make Loans nor shall the Issuing Lender be required to issue or extend a Letter of Credit in each case, after the Closing Date and excluding the initial funding of the Loans hereunder, unless, as of the date thereof:
The delivery of each Notice of Borrowing, each request for a Letter of Credit, each Swing Line Loan Request and each Competitive Bid Loan Request shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower of the correctness of the matters specified in subsections (b), (c), and (d) above.
          The Credit Parties hereby represent to the Administrative Agent and each Lender that:
.
                    6.1
Organization and Good Standing
          Each Credit Party (a) is either a partnership, a corporation or a limited liability company duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) is duly qualified and in good standing as a foreign organization and authorized to do business in every other jurisdiction where its ownership or operation of property or the conduct of its business would require it to be qualified, in good standing and authorized, unless
the failure to be so qualified, in good standing or authorized would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and (c) has the power and authority to own and operate its properties and to carry on its business as now conducted and as currently proposed to be conducted.
.
                    6.2
Due Authorization
          Each Credit Party (a) has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents to which it is a party and to incur the obligations herein and therein provided for and (b) has duly taken all necessary action to authorize, and is duly authorized, to execute, deliver and perform this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents to which it is a party.
.
                    6.3
Enforceable Obligations
          Each Credit Party has duly executed this Credit Agreement and each other Credit Document to which such Credit Party is a party and this Credit Agreement and such other Credit Documents constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of such Credit Party enforceable against such Credit Party in accordance with their respective terms, except as may be limited by bankruptcy or insolvency laws or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles.
.
                    6.4
No Conflicts
          Neither the execution and delivery of the Credit Documents to which it is a party, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and therein, nor the performance of or compliance with the terms and provisions hereof and thereof by a Credit Party will (a) violate, contravene or conflict with any provision of such Credit Party's organizational documents, (b) violate, contravene or conflict with any Requirement of Law (including, without limitation, Regulations T, U or X), order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, license or permit applicable to such Credit Party which violation would have or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (c) violate, contravene or conflict with contractual provisions of, or cause an event of default under, any indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, contract or other agreement or instrument to which such Credit Party is a party or by which it or its properties may be bound which violation would have or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (d) result in or require the creation of any Lien upon or with respect to the properties of such Credit Party.
.
                    6.5
Consents
          Except for consents, approvals and authorizations which have been obtained or the absence of which would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, no consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any Governmental Authority, equity owner or third party in respect of any Credit Party is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance of this Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, or the consummation of any transaction contemplated herein or therein by such Credit Party.
.
                    6.6
Financial Condition
          The financial statements delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Sections 7.1(a) and (b): (a) have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and (b) present fairly the consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of such date and for such periods. Since December 31, 2006,there has been no sale, transfer or other disposition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any material part of the business or property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or purchase or other acquisition by any such Person of any business or property (including any Capital Stock of any other Person) material in relation to the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case, which, is not (i) reflected in the most recent financial statements delivered to the Lenders prior to the date hereof or pursuant to Section 7.1 or in the notes thereto or (ii) otherwise permitted by the terms of this Credit Agreement and communicated to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
.
                    6.7
Intentionally Omitted
.
                    6.8
Disclosure
          Neither this Credit Agreement, nor any other Credit Document, nor any financial statements delivered to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders nor any other document, certificate or statement furnished to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders by or on behalf of any Credit Party in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, taken as a whole, contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein or herein not misleading.
.
                    6.9
No Default
          No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents.
.
                    6.10
Litigation
          Except as set forth in , no litigation, investigation, claim, criminal prosecution, civil investigative demand, imposition of criminal or civil fines and penalties, or any other proceeding of or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority is pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of its or their respective Properties (a) with respect to the Credit Documents or any Loan or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or (b) which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 6.10
.
                    6.11
Taxes
          The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has filed, or caused to be filed, all material tax returns (federal, state, local and foreign) required to be filed and has paid (a) all amounts of taxes shown thereon to be due (including interest and penalties) and (b) all other material taxes, fees, assessments and other governmental charges (including mortgage recording taxes, documentary
stamp taxes and intangibles taxes) owing by it, except for such taxes (i) which are not yet delinquent or (ii) that are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings, and against which adequate reserves are being maintained in accordance with GAAP.
.
                    6.12
Compliance with Law
          Except to the extent the same would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect:
          Except to the extent the same would not have or would not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, each of the Credit Parties has, to the extent applicable: (a) obtained and maintains in good standing all required licenses, permits, authorization and approvals of each Governmental Authority necessary to the conduct of its business; (b) to the extent prudent and customary in the industry in which it is engaged, obtained and maintains accreditation from all generally recognized accrediting agencies (including, but not limited to, CAP); (c) obtained and maintains CLIA certification; (d) entered into and maintains in good standing its Medicare Provider Agreements and its Medicaid Provider Agreements; and (e) ensured that all such required licenses, certifications and accreditations are in full force and effect on the date hereof and have not been revoked or suspended or otherwise limited.
                    
6.14 .
Title to Properties, Liens
          The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries, is the owner of, and has good title to, or has a valid license or lease to use, all of its material Properties. All Liens on the Properties of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are Permitted Liens.
                    6.15 .
Insurance
          The properties of the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries are insured with financially sound and reputable insurance companies that are not Affiliates of the Borrower (except to the extent that self-insurance is maintained in reasonable amounts), in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks, as is reasonable and prudent.
                    6.16 .
Use of Proceeds
          The proceeds of the Loans will be used solely for the purposes specified in Section 7.10. No proceeds of the Loans will be used for the Acquisition of another Person unless such Acquisition is a Permitted Acquisition.
                    6.17 .
Government Regulation
") necessary for each of them to conduct its business as currently conducted other than as would not have or would not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No claim has been asserted and is pending by any Person challenging or questioning the use of any Intellectual Property owned by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or that the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries has a right to use or the validity or effectiveness of any such Intellectual Property, nor does the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries have knowledge of any such claim, and, to the knowledge of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, the use of any Intellectual Property by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries does not infringe on the rights of any Person, except for such claims and infringements that in the aggregate, would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Property
                    6.21 .
Subsidiaries
          As of the date hereof, set forth on is a complete and accurate list of all Subsidiaries of the Borrower and which of such Subsidiaries are Material Domestic Subsidiaries.
Schedule 6.21
                    6.22 .
Solvency
          Each Credit Party is and, after consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement, will be Solvent.
                    6.23 .
Taxpayer Identification Number
          The Borrower's true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on .
Schedule 6.23
          Each Credit Party hereby covenants and agrees that so long as this Credit Agreement is in effect and until the Loans and LOC Obligations, together with interest and fees and other obligations then due and payable hereunder, have been paid in full and the Commitments and Letters of Credit hereunder shall have terminated:
                    7.1 .
Information Covenants
          The Credit Parties will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders an electronic (if readily available) and a hard copy of:
                    7.4 .
Books and Records
          The Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, keep complete and accurate books and records of its transactions in order to produce its financial statements in accordance with GAAP (including the establishment and maintenance of appropriate reserves).
                    7.5 .
Compliance with Law
          Except to the extent the failure to do so would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) comply with all Requirements of Law, and all applicable restrictions imposed by all Governmental Authorities, applicable to it and its Property (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws and ERISA), (b) conform with and duly observe in all material respects all laws, rules and regulations and all other valid requirements of any regulatory authority with respect to the conduct of its business, including without limitation, HIPAA, Medicare Regulations, Medicaid Regulations, and all laws, rules and regulations of Governmental Authorities, pertaining to the business of the Credit Parties; (c) obtain and maintain all licenses, permits, certifications and approvals of all applicable Governmental Authorities as are required for the conduct of its business as currently conducted and herein contemplated, including without limitation professional licenses, CLIA certifications, Medicare Provider Agreements and Medicaid Provider Agreements; (d) ensure that (i) billing policies, arrangements, protocols and instructions will comply with reimbursement requirements under Medicare, Medicaid and other Medical Reimbursement Programs and will be administered by properly trained personnel; (ii) medical director compensation arrangements and other arrangements with referring physicians will comply with applicable state and federal self-referral and anti-kickback laws, including without limitation 42 U.S.C. Section 1320a-7b(b)(1) - (b)(2) 42 U.S.C. and 42 U.S.C. Section 1395nn; and (iii) no event or related events occur that results in the exclusion of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries from participation in any Medical Reimbursement Program and (e) make commercially reasonable efforts to implement policies that are consistent with HIPAA on or before the date that any Credit Party is required to comply therewith.
                    7.6 .
Payment of Taxes and Other Indebtedness
          The Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, pay, settle or discharge (a) all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it, or upon its income or profits, or upon any of its properties, before they shall become delinquent, (b) all material lawful claims (including claims for labor, materials and supplies) which, if unpaid, might give rise to a Lien upon any of its properties, and (c) all of its other material Indebtedness as it shall become due (to the extent such repayment is not otherwise prohibited by this Credit Agreement); , , that a Credit Party shall not be required to pay any such tax, assessment, charge, levy, claim or Indebtedness which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and as to which adequate reserves therefor have been established in accordance with GAAP, unless the failure to make any such payment (i) would give rise to an immediate right to foreclose or collect on a Lien securing such amounts or (ii) would have or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
provided
however
                    7.7 .
Insurance
          The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, at all times maintain in full force and effect insurance (including worker's compensation, liability, casualty and business interruption insurance) with reputable national companies that are not Affiliates of the Borrower (except to the extent that self-insurance is maintained in reasonable amounts), in such amounts, covering such risks and liabilities as is reasonable and prudent.
                    7.8 .
Maintenance of Property
          The Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, maintain and preserve its properties and equipment in good repair, working order and condition, normal wear and tear excepted, and will make, or cause to be made, in such properties and equipment from time to time all repairs, renewals, replacements, extensions, additions, betterments and improvements thereto as may be needed or proper, in each case to the extent and in the manner customary for companies in similar businesses.
                    7.9 .
Performance of Obligations
          Except to the extent the failure to do so would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, the Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, perform all of its obligations under the terms of all contracts, agreements or other agreements not evidencing Indebtedness to which it is a party or by which it or its Properties may be bound.
                    7.10 .
Use of Proceeds
          The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Loans solely for the Transactions. The Borrower will use the Letters of Credit solely for the purposes set forth in Section 2.3(a).
                    7.11 .
Audits/Inspections
          Upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours, but not more than once per calendar year, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit representatives appointed by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, including, without limitation, independent accountants, agents, attorneys and appraisers to visit and inspect the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's Property, including its books and records, its accounts receivable and inventory, its facilities and its other business assets, and to make photocopies or photographs thereof and to write down and record any information such representative obtains and shall permit the Administrative Agent, any Lender or its representatives to investigate and verify the accuracy of information provided to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders and to discuss all such matters with the officers, employees and representatives of the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries; , , during the existence of a Default or Event of Default, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may request as many inspections as reasonable under the circumstances. Any expenses incurred in connection with this Section 7.11 shall be for the account of the Lenders unless an Event of Default exists in which case such expenses shall be for the account of the Borrower. Any representatives appointed by the Administrative Agent shall sign a confidentiality agreement reasonably acceptable to the Borrower prior to any visit, investigation, inspection or verification permitted by this Section 7.11.
provided
however
                    7.12 .
Additional Credit Parties
                    7.13 .
Compliance Program
          The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Domestic Subsidiaries that operates a clinical laboratory to, maintain, and be operated in accordance with, a compliance program which is reasonably designed to provide effective internal controls that promote adherence to applicable federal and state law and the program requirements of federal and state health plans, and which includes the implementation of internal audits and monitoring on a regular basis to monitor compliance with the requirements of the compliance program and applicable law, regulations and company policies.
          Each Credit Party hereby covenants and agrees that so long as this Credit Agreement is in effect and until the Loans and LOC Obligations, together with interest, fees and other obligations then due and payable hereunder, have been paid in full and the Commitments and Letters of Credit hereunder shall have terminated:
                     8.1 .
Indebtedness
          The Borrower will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, contract, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, other than:
                    8.2 .
Liens
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, contract, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien with respect to any of its Property of any kind (whether real or personal, tangible or intangible), whether now owned or after acquired, other than Permitted Liens.
                    8.3 .
Nature of Business
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, alter the character of its business from that conducted as of the date hereof or engage in any substantial manner in any business other than (a) the business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date hereof and (b) other healthcare-related businesses and businesses reasonably related thereto.
                    8.4 .
Consolidation and Merger
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation or liquidate, wind up or dissolve itself, or suffer any such liquidation, wind-up or dissolution; that (subject to Sections 7.12 and 7.13) (a) a Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge into the Borrower or another Subsidiary of the Borrower, (b) a Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with another Person in a transaction otherwise permitted by Section 8.5 or (c) the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into another Person if the following conditions are satisfied:
provided
                    8.5 .
Sale or Lease of Assets
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, convey, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise voluntarily dispose of, in one transaction or a series of transactions, all or any part of its business or assets whether now owned or hereafter acquired, including, without limitation, inventory, receivables, equipment, real property interests (whether owned or leasehold) and securities, other than a sale, lease, transfer or other disposal of (a) subject to Sections 7.12 and 7.13, assets from the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries to each other; (b) inventory and supplies in the
ordinary course of business; (c) obsolete, surplus, slow-moving, idle or worn-out assets no longer used or useful in the business of such Credit Party or the trade-in of equipment for equipment in better condition or of better quality; (d) assets which constitute a Permitted Investment in the ordinary course of business; (e) Receivables pursuant to a Permitted Receivables Financing; (f) Investments in the Strategic Investments Portfolio and (g) assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in addition to those permitted above in this Section 8.5; that in the case of this clause (g) (i) no Event of Default exists prior to such transfer, (ii) no Default or Event of Default exists after giving effect to such transfer and (iii) after giving effect to such transfer, the aggregate amount of all such transfers, calculated on a net book value basis, does not exceed ten percent (10%) of Total Assets, as determined on the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Borrower for which an officer's certificate has been delivered pursuant to Section 7.1(c).
provided
                    8.6 .
Investments
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, make or permit to exist any Investments except for Permitted Investments.
                    8.7 .
Transactions with Affiliates
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, enter into any transaction or series of transactions, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, with any officer, director, shareholder, Subsidiary or Affiliate other than on terms and conditions substantially as favorable as would be obtainable in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person other than an officer, director, shareholder, Subsidiary or Affiliate, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, each of the following shall be permitted: (a) transactions between or among the Credit Parties; (b) transactions between or among the Borrower and its wholly owned Subsidiaries as long as such transaction is not disadvantageous to the Lenders in any material respect; (c) transactions between or among the Borrower or one or more of its wholly owned Subsidiaries (on the one hand) and one of the non-wholly owned Subsidiaries of the Borrower (on the other hand) as long as none of the equity of such non-wholly owned Subsidiary is owned or controlled by an officer or director of any Credit Party; (d) advances to employees permitted by clause (f) of the definition of Permitted Investments; (e) Dividends; (f) fees, compensation and other benefits paid to, and customary indemnity and reimbursement provided on behalf of, officers, directors and employees of any Credit Party in the ordinary course of business; (g) any employment agreements entered into by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business; (h) any Permitted Receivables Financing; and (i) transactions and agreements in existence on the date hereof and listed on and, in each case, any amendment thereto, that is not disadvantageous to the Lenders in any material respect.
except
Schedule 8.7
                    8.8 .
Fiscal Year; Accounting; Organizational Documents
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, unless such action (i) would not affect the calculation of the financial covenants in Section 7.2 and (ii) would not or would not reasonably be likely to affect the rights of the Lenders under the Credit Documents: (a) change its fiscal year other than changing the fiscal year of a Subsidiary of the Borrower to a calendar year
end, (b) change its accounting procedures, except as a result of changes in GAAP and in accordance with Section 1.3 or (c) change its organizational or governing documents.
                    8.9 .
Stock Repurchases
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire or make any provisions for redemption, acquisition or retirement of any shares of the Capital Stock of the Borrower of any class or any warrants or options to purchase any such shares (collectively, a ""); that the Borrower or its Subsidiaries may consummate Stock Repurchases as long as on the date of such Stock Repurchase and after giving effect to such Stock Repurchase no Default or Event of Default exists and is continuing.
Stock Repurchase
provided
                    8.10 .
Sale/Leasebacks
                     9.1 .
Events of Default
          An Event of Default shall exist upon the occurrence, and during the continuation, of any of the following specified events (each an ""):
Event of Default
                     9.2 .
Acceleration; Remedies
          Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may or shall, upon the request and direction of the Required Lenders, take the following actions without prejudice to the rights of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to enforce its claims against the Credit Parties, except as otherwise specifically provided for herein:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in Section 9.1(f) shall occur, then the Commitments shall automatically terminate and all Loans, all reimbursement obligations under Letters of Credit, all accrued interest in respect thereof, all accrued and unpaid fees and other indebtedness or obligations owing to the Lenders hereunder shall immediately become due and payable without the giving of any notice or other action by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders, which notice or other action is expressly waived by the Credit Parties.
Notwithstanding the fact that enforcement powers reside primarily with the Administrative Agent, each Lender has, to the extent permitted by law, a separate right of payment and shall be considered a separate "creditor" holding a separate "claim" within the meaning of Section 101(5) of the Bankruptcy Code or any other insolvency statute.
                    9.3 .
Allocation of Payments After Event of Default
          Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Credit Agreement, after the exercise of any remedies by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders pursuant to Section 9.2 (or after any Event of Default that causes the Commitments to terminate and/or all of the Credit Party Obligations to be due hereunder), all amounts collected or received by the Administrative Agent or any Lender on account of amounts outstanding under any of the Credit Documents shall be paid over or delivered as follows:
          FIRST, to the payment of all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including without limitation reasonable Attorney Costs) of the Administrative Agent or any of the Lenders in connection with enforcing the rights of the Lenders under the Credit Documents, pro rata as set forth below;
          SECOND, to payment of any fees owed to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lender, the Swing Line Lender or any Lender, pro rata as set forth below;
          THIRD, to the payment of all accrued interest payable to the Lenders hereunder, pro rata as set forth below;
          FOURTH, to the payment of the outstanding principal amount of the Loans and unreimbursed drawings under Letters of Credit, and to the payment or cash collateralization of the outstanding LOC Obligations, pro rata as set forth below;
          FIFTH, to all other obligations which shall have become due and payable under the Credit Documents and not repaid pursuant to clauses "FIRST" through "FOURTH" above; and
          SIXTH, to the payment of the surplus, if any, to whoever may be lawfully entitled to receive such surplus.
In carrying out the foregoing, (a) amounts received shall be applied in the numerical order provided until exhausted prior to application to the next succeeding category; (b) each of the Lenders shall receive an amount equal to its pro rata share (based on the proportion that the then outstanding Loans, and LOC Obligations held by such Lender bears to the aggregate then outstanding Loans and LOC Obligations of amounts available to be applied; and (c) to the extent that any amounts available for distribution pursuant to clause "FOURTH" above are attributable to the issued but undrawn amount of outstanding Letters of Credit, such amounts shall be held by the Administrative Agent in a cash collateral account and applied (i) first, to reimburse the Issuing Lender from time to time for any drawings under such Letters of Credit and (ii) then, following the expiration of all Letters of Credit, to all other obligations of the types described in clauses "FOURTH" and "FIFTH" above in the manner provided in this Section 9.3.
                    10.1 .
Appointment
                    10.2 .
Delegation of Duties
          The Administrative Agent may execute any of its duties under this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document by or through agents, employees or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel and other consultants or experts concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact that it selects with reasonable care.
                    10.3 .
Exculpatory Provisions
          No Agent-Related Person shall (a) be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by any of them under or in connection with this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document or the transactions contemplated hereby (except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct in connection with its duties expressly set forth herein), or (b) be responsible in any manner to any Lender or participant for any recital, statement, representation or warranty made by any Credit Party or any officer thereof, contained herein or in any other Credit Document, or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Administrative Agent under or in connection with, this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, or the validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, or for any failure of any Credit Party or any other party to any Credit Document to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. No Agent-Related Person shall be under any obligation to any Lender or participant to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of any Credit Party or any Affiliate thereof.
                    10.4 .
Reliance on Communications
                    10.5 .
Notice of Default
          The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, except with respect to defaults in the payment of principal, interest and fees required to be paid to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders, unless the Administrative Agent shall have received written notice from a Lender or the Borrower referring to this Credit Agreement, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default." The Administrative Agent will notify the Lenders of its receipt of any such notice. The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default or Event of Default as may be reasonably directed by the Required Lenders in accordance with Section 9.2; , , that unless and until the Administrative Agent has received any such direction, the Administrative Agent may (but shall
provided
however
not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default or Event of Default as it shall deem advisable or in the best interest of the Lenders.
                    10.6 .
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
          Each Lender acknowledges that no Agent-Related Person has made any representation or warranty to it, and that no act by the Administrative Agent hereinafter taken, including any consent to and acceptance of any assignment or review of the affairs of any Credit Party or any Affiliate thereof, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by any Agent-Related Person to any Lender as to any matter, including whether Agent-Related Persons have disclosed material information in their possession. Each Lender represents to the Administrative Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, prospects, operations, Property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Credit Parties and their respective Affiliates, and all applicable bank or other regulatory laws relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, and made its own decision to enter into this Credit Agreement and to extend credit to the Borrower hereunder. Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents, and to make such investigations as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, prospects, operations, Property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Borrower. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, prospects, operations, Property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of any of the Credit Parties or any of their respective Affiliates which may come into the possession of any Agent-Related Person.
.
                    10.7
Indemnification
          To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under Section 11.5 to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the Issuing Lender or any Agent-Related Person of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the Issuing Lender or such Agent-Related Person, as the case may be, such Lender's Revolving Loan Commitment Percentage and/or Term Loan Commitment Loan Percentage, as applicable, (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or the Issuing Lender in its capacity as such, or against any Agent-Related Person of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or Issuing Lender in connection with such capacity.
provided
.
                    10.8
Administrative Agent in Its Individual Capacity
          Bank of America and its Affiliates may make loans to, issue letters of credit for the account of, accept deposits from, acquire equity interests in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust, financial advisory, underwriting or other business with each of the Credit Parties and their respective Affiliates as though Bank of America were not the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lender hereunder and without notice to or consent of the Lenders. The Lenders acknowledge that, pursuant to such activities, Bank of America or its Affiliates may receive information regarding any Credit Party or its Affiliates (including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in favor of such Credit Party or such Affiliate) and that the Administrative Agent shall be under no obligation to provide such information to them. With respect to its Loans, Bank of America shall have the same rights and powers under this Credit Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise such rights and powers as though it were not the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Lender, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" include Bank of America in its individual capacity.
                    .
10.9
Successor Agent
          The Administrative Agent may resign as Administrative Agent upon 30 days' notice to the Lenders. If the Administrative Agent resigns under this Credit Agreement, the Required Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor administrative agent for the Lenders which successor administrative agent (such appointment, absent the existence of an Event of Default, to be subject to the consent of the Borrower, which consent of the Borrower shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If no successor administrative agent is appointed prior to the effective date of the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent may appoint, after consulting with the Lenders and the Borrower, a successor administrative agent from among the Lenders. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as successor administrative agent hereunder, such successor administrative agent shall succeed to all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent and the term "Administrative Agent" shall mean such successor administrative agent and the retiring Administrative Agent's appointment, powers and duties as Administrative Agent shall be terminated. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Section 10 and Sections
11.5 and 11.10 shall continue to inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Credit Agreement. If no successor administrative agent has accepted appointment as Administrative Agent by the date which is 30 days following a retiring Administrative Agent's notice of resignation, the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation shall nevertheless thereupon become effective and the Lenders shall perform all of the duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor agent as provided for above.
.
                    10.10
Agent May File Proofs of Claim
          In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under the Credit Documents.
          Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Credit Party Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
                    .
11.1
Notices, Etc
.
                    11.2
Right of Set-Off
          In addition to any rights now or hereafter granted under applicable law or otherwise, and not by way of limitation of any such rights, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default and the commencement of remedies described in Section 9.2, each Lender is authorized at any time and from time to time, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind (all of which rights being hereby expressly waived), to set-off and to appropriate and apply any and all deposits (general or special) and any other indebtedness at any time held or owing by such Lender (including, without limitation, branches, agencies or Affiliates of such Lender wherever located) to or for the credit or the account of any Credit Party against obligations and liabilities of such Credit Party to the Lenders hereunder, under the Notes, the other Credit Documents or otherwise, irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or the Lenders shall have made any demand hereunder and although such obligations, liabilities or claims, or any of them, may be contingent or unmatured, and any such set-off shall be deemed to have been made immediately upon the occurrence of an Event of Default even though such charge is made or entered on the books of such Lender subsequent thereto. The Credit Parties hereby agree that any Person purchasing a participation in the Loans and Commitments hereunder pursuant to Sections 11.3(e) or 3.8 may exercise all rights of set-off with respect to its participation interest as fully as if such Person were a Lender hereunder.
                    .
11.3
Benefit of Agreement
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the
interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 3.9, 3.12, 3.13, 3.14 and 11.5 with respect to facts and circumstances occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment). Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
.
                    11.4
No Waiver; Remedies Cumulative
          No failure or delay on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Credit Document and no course of dealing between the Borrower or any Credit Party and the Administrative Agent or any Lender shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder or under any other Credit Document preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege hereunder or thereunder. The rights and remedies provided herein are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which the Administrative Agent or any Lender would otherwise have. No notice to or demand on any Credit Party in any case shall entitle any Credit Party to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances or constitute a waiver of the rights of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders to any other or further action in any circumstances without notice or demand.
.
                    11.5
Payment of Expenses; Indemnification
                    (a) The Borrower shall pay on demand:
          The foregoing costs and expenses shall include all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the cost of independent public accountants and other outside experts retained by the Administrative Agent or any Lender. If requested by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent or a Lender, as applicable, will furnish to the Borrower, within ten
Business Days of such request, a certificate setting forth the basis in reasonable detail with respect to any amounts requested under this Section 11.5(a). All amounts due under this shall be payable within twenty Business Days after demand therefor. The agreements in this Section shall survive the termination of the Commitments and repayment of all Credit Party Obligations.
Section 11.5(a)
                    (b) Indemnification.
.
                    11.6
Amendments, Waivers and Consents
          Neither this Credit Agreement nor any other Credit Document nor any of the terms hereof or thereof may be amended, changed, waived, discharged or terminated unless such amendment, change, waiver, discharge or termination is in writing and signed by the Required Lenders and the then Credit Parties; that no such amendment, change, waiver, discharge or termination shall without the consent of each Lender affected thereby:
provided
Notwithstanding the above, (i) no provisions of Section 10 may be amended or modified without the consent of the Administrative Agent, (ii) no provisions of Section 2.3 may be amended or modified without the consent of the Issuing Lender and (iii) no provisions of Section 2.4 may be amended or modified without the consent of the Swing Line Lender.
Notwithstanding the fact that the consent of all the Lenders is required in certain circumstances as set forth above, (x) each Lender is entitled to vote as such Lender sees fit on any reorganization plan
that affects the Loans or the Letters of Credit, and each Lender acknowledges that the provisions of Section 1126(c) of the Bankruptcy Code supersedes the unanimous consent provisions set forth herein and (y) the Required Lenders may consent to allow a Credit Party to use cash collateral in the context of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
If, in connection with any proposed amendment, waiver or consent requiring the consent of a greater percentage of the Lenders than the Required Lenders and the consent of the Required Lenders is obtained, but the consent of one or more other Lenders is not obtained (any such Lender which declares in writing that it will not provide such consent or whose consent is not obtained within the applicable period prescribed for such amendment, waiver or consent being referred to herein as a ""), then, so long as the Administrative Agent is not a Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower may, within 45 days of such Lender becoming a Non-Consenting Lender, give notice in writing to the Administrative Agent and such Non-Consenting Lender of the Borrower's intention to cause such Non-Consenting Lender to sell all of such Non-Consenting Lenders' interests in its Commitments for an amount equal to the principal balances thereof and all accrued interest and fees with respect thereto through the date of sale pursuant to one or more Assignment and Acceptance Agreements, such sale being without premium or discount. In the event of any such notice, such Non-Consenting Lender shall be required to sell and assign such interests (including all of its related rights and obligations) as provided in this Section. Any such sale of a Non-Consenting Lender's Commitments must be to an Eligible Assignee and, unless otherwise agreed to by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall be solely responsible for sourcing such Eligible Assignee, at no cost or expense to the Administrative Agent or any Lender. Any such assignment to an Eligible Assignee pursuant to this Section shall be in accordance with clause (b)(iv) of Section 11.3. At any time during or after the period during which a proposed amendment, waiver or consent was pending, upon the request of the Borrower the Administrative Agent shall promptly provide (but in any event within one Business Day) the Borrower with the names, contact information, Commitment percentages, principal balances and any other information reasonably requested for each Lender which, at the time of such request, was either a Non-Consenting Lender or had not yet decided whether or not to approve or consent to such amendment, waiver or consent.
Non-Consenting Lender
.
                    11.7
Counterparts
          This Credit Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
.
                    11.8
Headings
          The headings of the sections and subsections hereof are provided for convenience only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Credit Agreement.
.
                    11.9
Defaulting Lender
          Each Lender understands and agrees that if such Lender is a Defaulting Lender then notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11.6 it shall not be entitled to vote on any matter requiring
the consent of the Required Lenders or to object to any matter requiring the consent of all the Lenders; , , that all other benefits and obligations under the Credit Documents shall apply to such Defaulting Lender.
provided
however
.
                    11.10
Survival of Indemnification
          All indemnities set forth herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement, the making of the Loans, the issuance of the Letters of Credit and the repayment of the Loans, LOC Obligations and other obligations and the termination of the Commitments hereunder. All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Credit Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Extension of Credit, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Credit Party Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
.
                    11.11
Governing Law; Venue; Jurisdiction
.
                    11.12
Waiver of Jury Trial; Waiver of Consequential Damages
          EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, ANY OF THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. Each Credit Party agrees not to assert any claim against the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lenders, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys or agents, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages arising out of or otherwise relating to any of the transactions contemplated herein.
.
                    11.13
Severability
          If any provision of any of the Credit Documents is determined to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be fully severable and the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect and shall be construed without giving effect to the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.
                    .
11.14
Further Assurances
          The Credit Parties agree, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, to promptly take such actions, as reasonably requested, as is necessary to carry out the intent of this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents.
.
                    11.15
Confidentiality
          Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives, excluding equity security departments and their members (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Credit Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Loan Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Loan
Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Credit Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to a Credit Party and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. In addition, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may disclose the existence of this Credit Agreement and information about this Credit Agreement to market data collectors, similar service providers to the lending industry and service providers to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in connection with the administration and management of this Credit Agreement, the other Credit Documents and the Loans.
For purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified in writing at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. In addition, the Administrative Agent may disclose to any agency or organization that assigns standard identification numbers to loan facilities such basic information describing the facilities provided hereunder as is necessary to assign unique identifiers (and, if requested, supply a copy of this Credit Agreement), it being understood that the Person to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to make available to the public only such Information as such person normally makes available in the course of its business of assigning identification numbers. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable law, including federal and state securities laws.
provided
.
                    11.16
Entirety
          This Credit Agreement together with the other Credit Documents and the Fee Letter represent the entire agreement of the parties hereto and thereto, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, if any, including any commitment letters or correspondence relating to the Credit Documents or the transactions contemplated herein and therein.
                    .
11.17
Binding Effect; Continuing Agreement
.
                    11.18
USA Patriot Act Notice
          Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
Act
                    .
11.19
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
          In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Credit Document), the Borrower and each Guarantor acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower, each Guarantor and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) each of the Borrower and the Guarantors has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower and each Guarantor is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Credit Documents; (ii) (A) each of the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower, any Guarantor or any of their respective Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor either Lead Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower, the Guarantors or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth
herein and in the other Credit Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower, the Guarantors and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent either Lead Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower, any Guarantor or any of their respective Affiliates, it being understood that nothing in the Credit Documents is in any way intended to limit the scope of the engagement of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated or the obligations of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated pursuant to its engagement by you as financial advisor in connection with the Acquisition, or your rights and remedies in connection therewith.
                    
11.20
Judgment Currency.
          If, for the purposes of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum due hereunder or any other Credit Document in one currency into another currency, the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Administrative Agent could purchase the first currency with such other currency on the Business Day preceding that on which final judgment is given. The obligation of each Credit Party in respect of any such sum due from it to any Agent or the Lenders hereunder or under the other Credit Documents shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than that in which such sum is denominated in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Agreement (the ""), be discharged only to the extent that on the Business Day following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Administrative Agent may in accordance with normal banking procedures purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent from any Credit Party in the Agreement Currency, such Credit Party agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Administrative Agent or the Person to whom such obligation was owing against such loss. If the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is greater than the sum originally due to the Administrative Agent in such currency, the Administrative Agent agrees to return the amount of any excess to such Borrower (or to any other Person who may be entitled thereto under applicable law).
Judgment Currency
Agreement Currency
          Each of the parties hereto has caused a counterpart of this Credit Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written.
:
BORROWER
:
GUARANTORS
:
LENDERS

Exhibit 10.2
Published CUSIP Number:
 74834QAF6 
          THIS BRIDGE CREDIT AGREEMENT (this ""), is entered into as of May 31, 2007 among QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the ""), certain of the Subsidiaries of the Borrower (individually a "" and collectively the ""), the various financial institutions and other Persons from time to time parties hereto (the ""), BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., as administrative agent (in such capacity, the "") for the Lenders, MORGAN STANLEY SENIOR FUNDING, INC. ("") as syndication agent (in such capacity, the ""), for the Lenders, Barclays Bank PLC, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Merrill Lynch Bank, USA and Wachovia Bank, National Association, as the co-documentation agents for the Lenders (in such capacities, the "") for the Lenders and Morgan Stanley and Banc of America Securities LLC, as the joint lead arrangers and joint lead bookrunners (in such capacities, the "").
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Guarantor
Guarantors
Lenders
Administrative Agent
Morgan Stanley
Syndication Agent
Co-Documentation Agents
Lead Arrangers
          WHEREAS, the Borrower, Ace Acquisition Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Borrower ("") and Ameripath Group Holdings, Inc. (" have entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 15, 2007 (as it may be amended from time to time in accordance with its terms, the ""), pursuant to which, among other things, (i) the Borrower will acquire Ameripath by means of a merger (the "") of Merger Sub and Ameripath (the ""), with Ameripath being the surviving company of the Merger and the Borrower being the 100% owner of all Capital Securities of Ameripath immediately upon the effectiveness of the Merger and (ii) in connection with the Ameripath Acquisition, the Borrower will repay (or cause to be repaid) (a) certain Indebtedness of Ameripath and its Subsidiaries (the "") and (b) certain Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (the "" and, together with Ameripath Refinancing, the "");
Merger Sub
Ameripath)
Merger Agreement
Merger
Ameripath Acquisition
Ameripath Refinancing
Borrower Refinancing
Refinancing
          WHEREAS, for purposes of consummating the Ameripath Acquisition, the Refinancing, paying related fees, costs and expenses, and providing financing for the post-Merger working capital and general corporate needs of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, including acquisitions (collectively, the ""), the Borrower has requested the following financing facilities:
Transaction
                    (i) (a) a $1,600,000,000 term loan facility (the "") and (b) a $750,000,000 revolving credit facility (the ""); and
Term Loan Facility
Revolving Credit Facility
                    (ii) a $1,000,000,000 bridge loan facility (the ""); and
Bridge Loan Facility
          WHEREAS, the Lenders are willing, on the terms and subject to the conditions hereinafter set forth, to provide the Bridge Loan Facility;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
                    1.1 .
Definitions
          As used herein, the following terms shall have the meanings herein specified unless the context otherwise requires. Defined terms herein shall include in the singular number the plural and in the plural the singular:
          "" means the acquisition by any Person of (a) more than 50% of the Capital Stock of another Person, (b) all or substantially all of the assets of another Person or (c) all or substantially all of a line of business of another Person, in each case whether or not involving a merger or consolidation with such other Person.
Acquisition
          "" means each Person that becomes a Guarantor after the Closing Date, as provided in Section 7.12 or otherwise.
Additional Credit Party
          "" means Bank of America, N.A. (or any successor thereto) or any successor administrative agent appointed pursuant to Section 10.9.
Administrative Agent
          "" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling (including but not limited to all directors and officers of such Person), controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such Person. A Person shall be deemed to control a corporation if such Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power (a) to vote 10% or more of the securities having ordinary voting power for the election of directors of such corporation or (b) to direct or cause direction of the management and policies of such corporation, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
          "" means any physician-owned professional organization, association or corporation that employs or contracts with physicians engaged in a pathology or other medical practice and has entered into a Management Services Agreement with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.
Affiliated Practice
          "" means Bank of America, N.A., NC1-001-04-39, 101 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255, Attn: Agency Services, Attn: Credit Services, or such other address as may be identified by written notice from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower.
Agency Services Address
          "" means the Administrative Agent (including any successor administrative agent), together with its Affiliates (including, in the case of Bank of America in its capacity as the Administrative Agent, BAS), and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, counsel and attorneys-in-fact.
Agent-Related Person
          "" means Bank of America N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., in its capacity as Syndication Agent, Barclays Bank PLC, in its capacity as Co-Documentation Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., , in its capacity as Co-Documentation Agent, Merrill Lynch Bank, USA , in its capacity as Co-Documentation Agent, and Wachovia Bank, National Association in its capacity as Co-Documentation Agent.
Agents
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Ameripath Acquisition
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Ameripath Refinancing
          "" means the appropriate applicable percentages corresponding to the Debt Rating of the Borrower in effect from time to time as described below:
Applicable Percentage
The Applicable Percentage for the Eurodollar Loans shall be determined and adjusted on the date (each a "") one Business Day after the date on which the Borrower's Debt Rating is upgraded or downgraded in a manner which requires a change in the then applicable Pricing Level set forth above. If at any time there is a split in the Borrower's Debt Ratings between S&P and Moody's, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined by the higher of the two Debt Ratings (i.e. the lower pricing); that if the two Debt Ratings are more than one level apart, the Applicable Percentage shall be based on the Debt Rating which is one level higher than the lower rating. Each Applicable Percentage shall be effective from one Calculation Date until the next Calculation Date. Any adjustment in the Applicable Percentage shall be applicable to all existing Eurodollar Loans as well as any new Eurodollar Loans made.
Calculation Date
provided
          "" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (i) a Lender, (ii) an Affiliate of a Lender or (iii) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
          "" means two or more Eligible Assignees that are Affiliates of one another or two or more Approved Funds managed by the same investment advisor.
Assignee Group
          "" means an Assignment and Assumption substantially in the form of .
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit 11.3(b)
          "" means all reasonable fees and disbursements of any law firm or other external counsel and the reasonable allocated cost of internal legal services and all disbursements of internal counsel.
Attorney Costs
          "" means, with respect to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction, an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the fair market value of the Principal Property (as determined in good faith by the Borrower's board of directors); and (b) the present value of the total net amount of rent payments to be made under the lease during its remaining term, discounted at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of the lease, compounded semi-annually.
Attributable Debt
          "" means any of the chief executive officer, president, chief financial officer, corporate controller, treasurer or assistant treasurer of the Borrower.
Authorized Officer
          "" means Bank of America, N.A. or any successor thereto.
Bank of America
          "" means the Bankruptcy Code in Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.
Bankruptcy Code
          "" means Banc of America Securities LLC.
BAS
          "" means, for any day, the rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Federal Funds Rate in effect on such day  of 1% or (b) the Prime Rate in effect on such day. If for any reason the Administrative Agent shall have determined (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that it is unable after due inquiry to ascertain the Federal Funds Rate for any reason, including the inability or failure of the Administrative Agent to obtain sufficient quotations in accordance with the terms hereof, the Base Rate shall be determined without regard to clause (a) of the first sentence of this definition until the circumstances giving rise to such inability no longer exist. Any change in the Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Rate shall be effective at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Base Rate
plus
          "" means any Loan bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Base Rate.
Base Rate Loan
          "" is defined within the definition of "London Interbank Offered Rate".
BBA LIBOR
          "" means Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, together with any successors and permitted assigns.
Borrower
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1(i).
Borrower Materials
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Borrower Refinancing
          "" means ONE BILLION DOLLARS ($1,000,000,000); , , that not more than $500,000,000 in the aggregate
Bridge Loan Committed Amount
provided
however
of the Bridge Loan Committed Amount shall be available for Delayed Draw Bridge Loans (such amount being the "").
Delayed Draw Committed Amount
          "" means, for each Lender, the percentage identified as its Bridge Loan Commitment Percentage on Schedule 1.1(a), as such percentage may be modified in connection with any assignment made in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.3.
Bridge Loan Commitment Percentage
          "" has the meaning given to it in the second recital.
Bridge Loan Facility
          "" means the Bridge Loans made to the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.1.
Bridge Loans
          "" means the promissory notes of the Borrower in favor of each of the Lenders evidencing the Bridge Loans provided pursuant to Section 2.1, individually or collectively, as appropriate, as such promissory notes may be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed or replaced from time to time and as evidenced in the form of Exhibit 2.1(d).
Bridge Notes
          "" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday, a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law or other governmental action to close in New York, New York or Charlotte, North Carolina; provided that in the case of Eurodollar Loans, such day is also a day on which dealings between banks are carried on in U.S. dollar deposits in the London interbank market..
Business Day
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.19(a)(i).
Businesses
          "" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Applicable Percentage.
Calculation Date
          "" means the College of American Pathologists.
CAP
          "" means, as applied to any Person, any lease of any Property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which, in accordance with GAAP, is or should be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person and the amount of such obligation shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease
          "" means (a) in the case of a corporation, all classes of capital stock of such corporation, (b) in the case of a partnership, partnership interests (whether general or limited), (c) in the case of a limited liability company, membership interests and (d) any other interest or participation that confers on a Person the right to receive a share of the profits and losses of, or distributions of assets of, the issuing Person.
Capital Stock
          "" means (a) securities issued or directly and fully guaranteed or insured by the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof having maturities of not more than eighteen months from the date of acquisition, (b) Dollar denominated time and demand deposits, certificates of deposit and banker's acceptances of
Cash Equivalents
(i) any Lender, (ii) any domestic commercial bank having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 or (iii) any bank whose short-term commercial paper rating from S&P is at least A-1 or the equivalent thereof or from Moody's is at least P-1 or the equivalent thereof (any such bank being an ""), in each case with maturities of not more than 270 days from the date of acquisition, (c) commercial paper and variable or fixed rate notes issued by any Approved Bank (or by the parent company thereof) or any variable rate notes issued by, or guaranteed by, any domestic corporation rated A-1 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by S&P or P-1 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by Moody's and maturing within six months of the date of acquisition, (d) repurchase agreements with a bank or trust company (including any of the Lenders) or recognized securities dealer having capital and surplus in excess of $500,000,000 for direct obligations issued by or fully guaranteed by the United States of America in which the Borrower shall have a perfected first priority security interest (subject to no other Liens) and having, on the date of purchase thereof, a fair market value of at least 100% of the amount of the repurchase obligations, (e) Investments in tax-exempt municipal bonds rated A (or the equivalent thereof) or better by S&P or MIG2 (or the equivalent thereof) or better by Moody's, (f) auction rate securities rated AA or better by S&P or Moody's, in either case with a reset of no longer than 90 days and (g) Investments, classified in accordance with GAAP as current assets, in money market investment programs registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, which are administered by reputable financial institutions having capital of at least $500,000,000 and the portfolios of which are limited to Investments of the character described in the foregoing subdivisions (a) through (f).
Approved Bank
          "" means all Interest Expense actually paid in cash by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries.
Cash Interest Expenses
          "" means the United States Department of Defense Civilian Health and Medical Program of the United States or any successor thereto including, without limitation, TRICARE.
CHAMPUS
          "" means either of the following events:
Change of Control
          (a) any "person" or "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Exchange Act) has become, directly or indirectly, the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise of 35% or more of the Voting Stock of the Borrower on a fully-diluted basis, after giving effect to the conversion and exercise of all outstanding warrants, options and other securities of the Borrower convertible into or exercisable for Voting Stock of the Borrower (whether or not such securities are then currently convertible or exercisable); or
          (b) during any period of twelve calendar months, individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the board of directors of the Borrower together with any new members of such board of directors whose elections by such board or board of directors or whose nomination for election by the stockholders of the Borrower was approved by a vote of a majority of the members of such board of directors then still in office who either were directors at
the beginning of such period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the directors of the Borrower then in office.
          "" means the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendment as set forth at 42 U.S.C. 263a and the regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended.
CLIA
          "" means the date on which the conditions set forth in Section 5.1 shall have been fulfilled (or waived in the sole discretion of the Lenders) and on which the initial Loans shall have been made.
Closing Date
          "" means the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services of HHS, any successor thereof and any predecessor thereof, including the HCFA.
CMS
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Co-Documentation Agents
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.
Code
          "" means the fees payable pursuant to Section 3.4(a).
Commitment Fee
          "" means the commitment of each Lender with respect to the Bridge Loan Committed Amount.
Commitments
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Company
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Credit Agreement
          "" means this Credit Agreement, the Notes, any Joinder Agreement and any Notice of Borrowing.
Credit Documents
          "" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Required Lenders in this Section 1.1.
Credit Exposure
          "" means the Borrower and the Guarantors and "" means any one of them.
Credit Parties
Credit Party
          "" means, without duplication, all of the obligations of the Credit Parties to the Lenders and the Administrative Agent, whenever arising, under this Credit Agreement, the Notes, or any of the other Credit Documents.
Credit Party Obligations
          "" means the issuance after the Closing Date of any Indebtedness
Debt Issuance
          for borrowed money by the Borrower, other than (a) extensions of credit under the Five-Year Credit Agreement, (b) Indebtedness incurred solely for the acquisition of an asset or property, (c) Indebtedness incurred after the Closing Date in connection with the acquisition of a Person or Property as long as such Indebtedness existed prior to such acquisition and was not created in anticipation thereof, (d) Indebtedness incurred by the
Borrower arising from Permitted Receivables Financings or (e) Indebtedness issued to a Credit Party or any of its Subsidiaries.
          "" means the long-term senior unsecured, non-credit enhanced debt rating of the Borrower from S&P and Moody's.
Debt Rating
          "" means any event, act or condition which with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
Default
          "" means, at any time, any Lender that, (a) has failed to make a Loan or purchase a Participation Interest required pursuant to the terms of this Credit Agreement (but only for so long as such Loan is not made or such Participation Interest is not purchased), (b) has failed to pay to the Administrative Agent or any Lender an amount owed by such Lender pursuant to the terms of this Credit Agreement (but only for so long as such amount has not been repaid) or (c) has been deemed insolvent or has become subject to a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding or to a receiver, trustee or similar official.
Defaulting Lender
          "" means a portion of the Bridge Loans made after the Closing Date in an aggregate amount not to exceed the Delayed Draw Committed Amount.
Delayed Draw Bridge Loans
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 2.1(a).
Delayed Draw Borrowing Date
          "" has the meaning given to it in the proviso of the definition of "".
Delayed Draw Committed Amount
Bridge Loan Committed Amount
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 2.1(a).
Delayed Draw Commitment Termination Date
          "" means any payment of dividends or any other distribution upon any shares of any class of Capital Stock of the Borrower.
Dividends
          "" and "" means dollars in lawful currency of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
          "" means each direct and indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower that is domiciled or organized under the laws of any State of the United States or the District of Columbia.
Domestic Subsidiary
          "" means, for any period, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, (a) Net Income for such period (excluding the effect of any extraordinary or other non-recurring gains and losses (including any gain or loss from the sale of Property)) (b) an amount which, in the determination of Net Income for such period, has been deducted for (i) Interest Expense for such period, (ii) total Federal, state, foreign or other income or franchise taxes for such period, (iii) all depreciation and amortization for such period, (iv) other items of expense during such period that do not involve a cash payment at any time (other than the provision for bad
EBITDA
plus
debt in connection with uncollectible accounts receivable), (v) cash charges during such period for which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are reimbursed by a third party during such period, (vi) special or restructuring items during any such period included in Net Income that do not involve a cash payment during such period (collectively, "Non-Cash Items") and (vii) expenses charged pursuant to FAS 123(R), as promulgated in accordance with GAAP, during such period (c) any actual cash payments during the applicable period related to Non-Cash Items expensed or reserved under clauses (v) and (vi) above (d) Tender Costs during such period; that, for purposes of calculating the Leverage Ratio and the Interest Coverage Ratio hereunder, EBITDA shall be calculated as if Ameripath and its Subsidiaries were Subsidiaries of the Borrower on the Closing Date and during the twelve-month period preceding such date unless, in the case of any Subsidiary of Ameripath which has not been a Subsidiary for the entire twelve-month period preceding the Closing Date, such lesser period of time.
minus
plus
provided
          "" means any assets or any business (or any substantial part thereof) used or useful in the same or a similar line of business as the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are engaged on the date hereof or other healthcare-related businesses or businesses reasonably related thereto.
Eligible Assets
           "" means (a) a Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) an Approved Fund and (d) any other Person approved by the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); that (i) the Borrower's consent is not required during the existence and continuation of a Default or an Event of Default, (ii) approval by the Borrower shall be deemed given if no objection is received by the assigning Lender and the Administrative Agent from the Borrower within five Business Days after notice of such proposed assignment has been delivered to the Borrower; (iii) neither the Borrower nor an Affiliate of the Borrower shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee; and (iv) no competitor of the Borrower shall qualify as an Eligible Assignee.
Eligible Assignee
provided
          "" means the legislative measures of the European Council for the introduction of, changeover to or operation of a single or unified European currency.
EMU Legislation
          "" means any current or future legally enforceable requirement of any Governmental Authority pertaining to (a) the protection of the indoor or outdoor environment, (b) the conservation, management, or use of natural resources and wildlife, (c) the protection or use of surface water and groundwater or (d) the management, manufacture, possession, presence, use, generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal, release, threatened release, abatement, removal, remediation or handling of, or exposure to, any hazardous or toxic substance or material or (e) pollution (including any release to land surface water and groundwater) and includes, without limitation, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, 42 USC 9601 Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 and Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984, 42 USC 6901 Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977, 33 USC 1251 Clean Air Act of 1966,
Environmental Laws
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
as amended, 42 USC 7401 Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976, 15 USC 2601 Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, 49 USC App. 1801 Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, 29 USC 651 Oil Pollution Act of 1990, 33 USC 2701 Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986, 42 USC 11001 National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 USC 4321 Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, as amended, 42 USC 300(f) any analogous implementing or successor law, and any amendment, rule, regulation, order, or directive issued thereunder.
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
et seq.,
          "" means any issuance by the Borrower to any Person (other than a Credit Party or any of its Subsidiaries) of shares of its Capital Stock or other equity interests other than equity issued to employees pursuant to benefit plans in the ordinary course.
Equity Issuance
          "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations thereunder, all as the same may be in effect from time to time. References to sections of ERISA shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections.
ERISA
          "" means an entity, whether or not incorporated, which is treated as a single employer with the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower under Sections 414(b) or (c) of the Code and solely for purposes of Section 412 of the Code under Section 414(m) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
          "" means (a) with respect to any Single Employer or Multiple Employer Plan, the occurrence of a Reportable Event or the substantial cessation of operations (within the meaning of Section 4062(e) of ERISA); (b) the withdrawal of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiple Employer Plan during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (as such term is defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA), or the termination of a Multiple Employer Plan; (c) the distribution of a notice of intent to terminate or the actual termination of a Plan pursuant to Section 4041(a)(2) or 4041A of ERISA; (d) the institution of proceedings to terminate or the actual termination of any Plan by the PBGC under Section 4042 of ERISA; (e) any event or condition which might constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan; (f) the complete or partial withdrawal of the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from a Multiemployer Plan or notification that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization; (g) the conditions for imposition of a lien under Section 302(f) of ERISA exist with respect to any Plan; or (h) the adoption of an amendment to any Plan requiring the provision of security to such Plan pursuant to Section 307 of ERISA.
ERISA Event
          "" means a Loan bearing interest based at a rate determined by reference to the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Loan
          "" means, for the Interest Period for each Eurodollar Loan comprising part of the same borrowing (including conversions, extensions and renewals), a per annum interest rate equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate.
Eurodollar Rate
          "" means, with respect to each Lender, the percentage (expressed as a decimal) applicable to such Lender which is in effect from time to time under Regulation D as the reserve requirement (including, without limitation, any basic, supplemental, emergency, special, or marginal reserves) applicable with respect to its Eurocurrency liabilities, as that term is defined in Regulation D (or against any other category of liabilities that includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate of Eurodollar Loans is determined). Eurodollar Loans made by a Lender shall be deemed to constitute Eurocurrency liabilities and as such shall be deemed subject to reserve requirements, if applicable, without benefits of credits for proration, exceptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to such Lender.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
          "" means any of the events or circumstances specified in Section 9.1.
Event of Default
          "" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.
Exchange Act
          "" means, as to any Lender, the making of a Loan by such Lender (or a participation therein by a Lender).
Extension of Credit
          "" means for any day the rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next preceding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate (rounded upward, if necessary, to a whole multiple of 1/100 of 1%) charged to the Administrative Agent on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
Federal Funds Rate
provided
          "" means that certain letter agreement dated as of April 23, 2007 among the Borrower, BAS, Bank of America and Morgan Stanley.
Fee Letter
          "" means the Credit Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and the Agents.
Five-Year Credit Agreement
          "" means each direct and indirect Subsidiary of the Borrower that is not a Domestic Subsidiary.
Foreign Subsidiary
          "" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
          "" means, without duplication, the sum of (a) all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for borrowed money, (b) all purchase money Indebtedness
Funded Debt
of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, (c) the principal portion of all obligations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries under Capital Leases, (d) all drawn but unreimbursed amounts under all letters of credit (other than letters of credit supporting trade payables in the ordinary course of business) issued for the account of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (e) all Funded Debt of another Person secured by a Lien on any Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries whether or not such Funded Debt has been assumed by a Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (f) all Funded Debt of any partnership or unincorporated joint venture to the extent the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries is legally obligated with respect thereto and (g) the amount of principal attributable under any outstanding Synthetic Lease. It is understood and agreed that Indebtedness incurred pursuant to Hedging Agreements is not Funded Debt.
          "" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis and subject to Section 1.3.
GAAP
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3(j)(i).
Government Acts
          "" means any, Federal, state, local, provincial or foreign court or governmental agency, authority (including executive authority), instrumentality or regulatory body.
Governmental Authority
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.3(g).
Granting Lender
          "" means each of the Material Domestic Subsidiaries of the Borrower, any other Subsidiary of the Borrower that guaranties any Pari Passu Debt or the Five-Year Credit Agreement and each Additional Credit Party, together with their successors and assigns.
Guarantor
          "" means the guaranty of the Credit Party Obligations provided by the Guarantors pursuant to Section 4.
Guaranty
          "" means, with respect to any Person, without duplication, any obligations (other than endorsements in the ordinary course of business of negotiable instruments for deposit or collection) guaranteeing any Indebtedness of any other Person in any manner, whether direct or indirect, and including without limitation any obligation, whether or not contingent, (a) to purchase any such Indebtedness or other obligation or any Property constituting security therefor, (b) to advance or provide funds or other support for the payment or purchase of such Indebtedness or obligation or to maintain working capital, solvency or other balance sheet condition of such other Person (including, without limitation, maintenance agreements, comfort letters, take or pay arrangements, put agreements or similar agreements or arrangements) for the benefit of the holder of Indebtedness of such other Person, (c) to lease or purchase Property, securities or services primarily for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or (d) to otherwise assure or hold harmless the owner of such Indebtedness or obligation against loss in respect thereof. The amount of any Guaranty Obligation hereunder shall (subject to any limitations set forth therein) be deemed to be an amount
Guaranty Obligations
equal to the outstanding principal amount (or maximum principal amount, if larger) of the Indebtedness in respect of which such Guaranty Obligation is made.
          "" means any substance, material or waste defined in or regulated under any Environmental Laws.
Hazardous Materials
          "" means the United States Health Care Financing Administration and any successor thereto, including CMS.
HCFA
          "" means, collectively, interest rate protection agreements, foreign currency exchange agreements, commodity purchase or option agreements or other interest or exchange rate or commodity price hedging agreements, in each case, entered into or purchased by a Credit Party.
Hedging Agreements
          "" means the United States Department of Health and Human Services and any successor thereof.
HHS
          "" means the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-191, Aug. 21, 1996, 110 Stat. 1936 and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended from time to time.
HIPAA
          "" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, or upon which interest payments are customarily made, (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to Property purchased by such Person to the extent of the value of such Property (other than customary reservations or retentions of title under agreements with suppliers entered into in the ordinary course of business), (d) all obligations, other than intercompany items, of such Person issued or assumed as the deferred purchase price of property or services purchased by such Person which would appear as liabilities on a balance sheet of such Person, (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on, or payable out of the proceeds of production from, property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the obligations secured thereby have been assumed, (f) all Guaranty Obligations of such Person, (g) the principal portion of all obligations of such Person under (i) Capital Leases and (ii) any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing product of such Person where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP, (h) all obligations of such Person to repurchase any securities which repurchase obligation is related to the issuance thereof, including, without limitation, obligations commonly known as residual equity appreciation potential shares, (i) all net obligations of such Person in respect of Hedging Agreements, (j) the maximum amount of all performance and standby letters of credit issued or bankers' acceptances facilities created for the account of such Person and, without duplication, all drafts drawn thereunder (to the extent unreimbursed), and (k) the aggregate amount of uncollected accounts receivable of such Person subject at such time to a sale of receivables (or similar
Indebtedness
transaction) regardless of whether such transaction is effected without recourse to such Person or in a manner that would not be reflected on the balance sheet of such Person in accordance with GAAP. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any partnership or unincorporated joint venture in which such Person is legally obligated.
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.5(b)(i).
Indemnified Liabilities
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.5(b)(i).
Indemnitees
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.20.
Intellectual Property
          "" is defined in Section 11.15.
Information
          "" means, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) EBITDA for the twelve month period ending on such date to (b) Cash Interest Expense for the twelve month period ending on such date.
Interest Coverage Ratio
          "" means, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis for any period, all interest expense, including, without duplication, the interest component under Capital Leases, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Interest Expense
          "" means (a) as to Base Rate Loans, the last day of each calendar quarter and the Maturity Date and (b) as to Eurodollar Loans, the last day of each applicable Interest Period and the Maturity Date and in addition, where the applicable Interest Period for a Eurodollar Loan is greater than three months, then also the date three months from the beginning of the Interest Period and each three months thereafter. If an Interest Payment Date falls on a date which is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be deemed to be the next succeeding Business Day, except that in the case of Eurodollar Loans where the next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then on the next preceding Business Day.
Interest Payment Date
          "" means as to Eurodollar Loans, a period of one, two, three or six months' duration, as the Borrower may elect, commencing, in each case, on the date of the borrowing (including continuations and conversions thereof); , , (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (except that where the next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then on the next preceding Business Day), (ii) no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Maturity Date and (iii) where an Interest Period begins on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month in which the Interest Period is to end, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such calendar month.
Interest Period
provided
however
          "" in any Person means (a) the acquisition (whether for cash, property, services, assumption of Indebtedness, securities or otherwise) of assets, shares of Capital Stock, bonds, notes, debentures, partnership, joint ventures or other ownership interests or other securities of such other Person or (b) any deposit with, or advance, loan or other extension of credit to, such Person (other than deposits or advances made in connection
Investment
with the purchase of equipment or other assets or services in the ordinary course of business) or (c) any other capital contribution to or investment in such Person, including, without limitation, any Guaranty Obligation (including any support for a letter of credit issued on behalf of such Person) incurred for the benefit of such Person.
          "" means a Joinder Agreement substantially in the form of .
Joinder Agreement
Exhibit 7.12
          "" means, collectively, all international, foreign, federal, state and local statutes, treaties, rules, guidelines, regulations, ordinances, codes and administrative or judicial precedents or authorities, including the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the enforcement, interpretation or administration thereof, and all applicable administrative orders, directed duties, requests, licenses, authorizations and permits of, and agreements with, any Governmental Authority, in each case whether or not having the force of law.
Laws
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Lead Arrangers
          "" means any of the Persons identified as a "Lender" on the signature pages hereto, and any Eligible Assignee which may become a Lender by way of assignment in accordance with the terms hereof, together with their successors and permitted assigns.
Lender
          "" means, as to any Lender, the office or offices of such Lender described as such on , or such other office or offices as a Lender may from time notify to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Lending Office
Schedule 1.1(a)
          "" means, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, the ratio of (a) Funded Debt on such date to (b) EBITDA for the twelve month period ending on such date.
Leverage Ratio
          "" means any mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, security interest, encumbrance, lien (statutory or otherwise), preference, priority or charge of any kind, including, without limitation, any agreement to give any of the foregoing, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, and any lease in the nature thereof (other than operating leases).
Lien
          "" or "" means the Bridge Loans, individually or collectively, as appropriate.
Loan
Loans
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.3(d).
Loan Participant
          "" means for any Interest Period with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day
London Interbank Offered Rate
BBA LIBOR
of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "London Interbank Offered Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
          "" means a written management agreement entered into by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in connection with an Affiliated Practice, which agreement has been approved in accordance with the Borrower's customary policies and procedures (as then in effect) for similar contracts and agreements.
Management Services Agreement
          "" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, operations or financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of a Credit Party to perform its obligations under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, or (c) the validity or enforceability of this Credit Agreement, any of the other Credit Documents, or the rights and remedies of the Lenders hereunder or thereunder taken as a whole.
Material Adverse Effect
          "" means any wholly-owned Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower that, directly or indirectly, (a) owns assets in excess of $20,000,000 or (b) has annual revenues, as of the most recently ended fiscal year of the Borrower, in excess of two percent (2%) of the total revenues of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; that neither Quest Receivables nor any Affiliated Practice shall be deemed to be a Material Domestic Subsidiary; and that neither Ameripath nor any of its wholly-owned Domestic Subsidiaries that would otherwise qualify as a Material Domestic Subsidiary on the date hereof shall be deemed to be a Material Domestic Subsidiary for purposes of Section 7.12(a) hereof until the date that the 10% Subordinated Note Tender Offer shall have been consummated.
Material Domestic Subsidiary
provided
provided
further
          "" means the date that is 364 days after the Closing Date.
Maturity Date
          "" shall mean that entitlement program under Title XIX of the Social Security Act that provides federal grants to states for medical assistance based on specific eligibility criteria.
Medicaid
           "" means an agreement entered into between a state agency or other such entity administering the Medicaid program and a health care provider or supplier under which the health care provider or supplier agrees to provide services for Medicaid patients in accordance with the terms of the agreement and Medicaid Regulations.
Medicaid Provider Agreement
          "" means, collectively, (a) all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XIX of the Social Security Act or elsewhere) affecting Medicaid and any statutes succeeding thereto; (b) all applicable provisions of all federal rules, regulations, manuals and orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines having the force of law of all Governmental Authorities promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (a) above; (c) all state statutes and plans for medical assistance enacted in connection with the statutes and provisions described in clauses (a) and (b) above; and (d) all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals and orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines having the force of law of all Governmental Authorities promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (c) above and all state administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities having the force of law promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (b) above, in each case as may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Medicaid Regulations
          "" shall mean the Medicare, Medicaid, CHAMPUS and TRICARE programs and any other healthcare program operated by or financed in whole or in part by any foreign, domestic, federal, state or local government and any other non-government funded third party payor programs.
Medical Reimbursement Programs
          "" shall mean that government-sponsored entitlement program under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act that provides for a health insurance system for eligible elderly and disabled individuals.
Medicare
          "" means an agreement entered into between CMS or other such entity administering the Medicare program on behalf of CMS, and a health care provider or supplier under which the health care provider or supplier agrees to provide services for Medicare patients in accordance with the terms of the agreement and Medicare Regulations.
Medicare Provider Agreement
          "" shall mean, collectively, all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act or elsewhere) affecting the health insurance program for the aged and disabled established by Title XVIII of the Social Security Act and any statutes succeeding thereto; together with all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals and orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines having the force of law of all Governmental Authorities (including, without limitation, the HHS, CMS, the OIG, or any person succeeding to the functions of any of the foregoing) promulgated pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing having the force of law, as each may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Medicare Regulations
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Merger
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Merger Agreement
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Merger Sub
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor or assignee of the business of such company in the business of rating securities.
Moody's
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Morgan Stanley
          "" means a Plan which is a multiemployer plan as defined in Sections 3(37) or 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
          "" means a Plan covered by Title IV of ERISA (other than a Multiemployer Plan) in which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate and at least one employer other than the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate are contributing sponsors.
Multiple Employer Plan
           "" means, for any period, the net income after taxes for such period of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP and without duplication.
Net Income
          "" has the meaning set forth in the definition of EBITDA in Section 1.1.
Non-Cash Items
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.6.
Non-Consenting Lender
          "" means any wholly-owned Domestic Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor other than Quest Receivables and any Affiliated Practice.
Non-Material Domestic Subsidiary
          "" or "" means the Bridge Notes, individually or collectively, as appropriate.
Note
Notes
          "" means a request by the Borrower for a Loan, in the form of .
Notice of Borrowing
Exhibit 2.1(b)
          "" means a request by the Borrower to continue an existing Eurodollar Loan to a new Interest Period or to convert a Eurodollar Loan to a Base Rate Loan or a Base Rate Loan to a Eurodollar Loan, in the form of .
Notice of Continuation/Conversion
Exhibit 2.2
          "" means the Office of Inspector General of HHS and any successor thereof.
OIG
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 3.13(b).
Other Taxes
          "" means all unsecured indebtedness of the Borrower.
Pari Passu Debt
          "" means each state so described in any EMU Legislation.
Participating Member State
          "" means the Extension of Credit by a Lender by way of a purchase of a participation in any Loans as provided in Section 3.8.
Participation Interest
          "" means the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), as amended and supplemented from time to time.
Patriot Act
          "" means all documentation and other information available to the Borrower or its Subsidiaries which a Lender, if subject to the Patriot Act, is required to provide pursuant to the applicable section of the Patriot Act and which required documentation and information the Administrative Agent or any Lender reasonably requests in order to comply with their ongoing obligations under applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the Patriot Act.
Patriot Act Disclosures
          "" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation established pursuant to Subtitle A of Title IV of ERISA and any successor thereto.
PBGC
          "" means an Acquisition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries; that (a) substantially all of the Property acquired (or the Property of the Person acquired) in such Acquisition constitutes Eligible Assets (or goodwill associated therewith), (b) in the case of an Acquisition of the Capital Stock of another Person, the board of directors (or other comparable governing body) of such other Person or its parent shall have duly approved such Acquisition, (c) on the date of such Acquisition no Event of Default exists, (d) after giving effect to such Acquisition, no Default or Event of Default shall exist, (e) if such Acquisition involves the formation of a new Subsidiary of the Borrower, such Subsidiary complies with Section 7.12, (f) such Acquisition is undertaken in accordance with all laws, rules, regulations, orders, writs, judgments, injunctions, decrees and awards to which any party to such Acquisition may be subject and (g) the Borrower shall have delivered to the Administrative Agent a compliance certificate for the period of four full fiscal quarters immediately preceding such acquisition (prepared in good faith and in a manner and using such methodology which is consistent with the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 7.1) giving pro forma effect to the consummation of such acquisition and evidence compliance with the covenants set forth in Section 7.2.
Permitted Acquisition
provided
          "" means Investments which constitute the following: (a) cash or Cash Equivalents, (b) trade accounts receivable created, acquired or made in the ordinary course of business, (c) inventory, raw materials, general intangibles and other current assets acquired in the ordinary course of business, (d) Investments by the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries in each other, (e) Permitted Acquisitions, (f) advances to management personnel and employees in the ordinary course of business, (g) Investments existing as of the date hereof; that any such Investment in excess of $2,000,000 is set forth on , (h) Investments consisting of non-cash consideration received in the form of securities, notes or similar obligations in connection with any conveyance, sale, lease, assignment, transfer or other disposition of any Property by the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries to any Person, and which are permitted hereunder, and (i) any other Investment as long as(i) on the date of such Investment, no Event of Default exists and (ii) after giving effect to such Investment no Default or Event of Default shall exist.
Permitted Investments
provided
Schedule 8.6
          "" means (a) Liens securing Credit Party Obligations, if any, (b) Liens for taxes not yet due or Liens for taxes being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves determined in accordance with GAAP have been established (and as to which the Property subject to any such Lien is not yet subject to foreclosure, sale, collection, levy or loss on account thereof), (c) Liens in respect of Property imposed by law arising in the ordinary course of business such as materialmen's, mechanics', warehousemen's, carrier's, landlords' and other nonconsensual statutory Liens which are not yet due and payable or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings for which adequate reserves determined in accordance with GAAP have been established (and as to which the Property subject to any such Lien is not yet subject to foreclosure, sale or loss on account thereof), (d) Liens (other than Liens imposed under ERISA) consisting of pledges or deposits made in the ordinary course of business to secure payment of worker's compensation insurance, unemployment insurance, pensions or social security programs, (e) Liens arising from good faith deposits in connection with or to secure performance of tenders, bids, leases, government contracts, performance and return-of-money bonds and other similar obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business (other than obligations in respect of the payment of borrowed money), (f) Liens arising from good faith deposits in connection with or to secure performance of statutory obligations and surety and appeal bonds, (g) easements, rights-of-way, restrictions (including zoning restrictions), matters of plat, minor defects or irregularities in title and other similar charges or encumbrances not, in any material respect, impairing the use of the encumbered Property for its intended purposes, (h) judgment Liens that would not constitute an Event of Default, (i) Liens in connection with Indebtedness of the type permitted by Section 8.1(e) incurred by any Subsidiary, (j) Liens arising by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of setoff or similar rights as to deposit accounts or other funds maintained with a creditor depository institution, (k) Liens existing on the date hereof and identified on , (l) Liens upon Property acquired (or the Property of a Subsidiary that is acquired) after the Closing Date by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, which Liens either (i) existed on such Property before the time of such acquisition and was not created in anticipation thereof or (ii) were created solely for the purpose of securing Indebtedness representing, or incurred to finance or refinance, the cost of such Property or improvements thereon; , ; that (A) no such Lien shall extend to or cover any Property of any Credit Party other than the Property so acquired and improvements thereon and proceeds thereof, (B) the principal amount of Indebtedness secured by any such Lien shall at no time exceed 100% of the fair market value of such Property at the time it was acquired or constructed and (C) the Indebtedness secured by any such Lien is permitted hereunder; that (x) no such Lien shall extend to any Property other than the Property subject thereto on the closing date of such acquisition and (y) the principal amount of the Indebtedness secured by such Liens shall not be increased, (m) Liens in connection with Permitted Receivables Financing, (n) Liens with respect to lease filings for notice purposes only, (o) Liens on purchase money Indebtedness incurred by the Borrower in an amount not to exceed, in the aggregate, $100,000,000 less Indebtedness incurred by Subsidiaries of the Borrower pursuant to Section 8.1(e), (p) Liens on Property of non-wholly owned Subsidiaries of the Borrower incurred to finance working capital, (q) Liens
Permitted Liens
Schedule 8.2
provided
however
provided
on Property of Foreign Subsidiaries securing Indebtedness of the type permitted by Section 8.1(k) incurred by Foreign Subsidiaries, and (r) renewals and extensions of the foregoing so long as such Lien (i) does not cover any additional Property, (ii) does not secure additional Indebtedness and (iii) is not otherwise prohibited by this Credit Agreement.
          "" means any transaction entered into pursuant to documentation reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent in which (a) one or more Credit Parties sells, conveys or otherwise transfers to Quest Receivables and (b) Quest Receivables sells, conveys or otherwise transfers to any other Person or grants a security interest to any Person in, any Receivables (whether now existing or hereafter acquired) of a Credit Party, and any assets related thereto including all collateral securing such Receivables, all contracts and all Guaranty Obligations or other obligations in respect of such Receivables, all proceeds of such Receivables and all other assets that are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving Receivables.
Permitted Receivables Financing
          "" means any individual, partnership, joint venture, firm, corporation, limited liability company, association, trust or other enterprise (whether or not incorporated), or any Governmental Authority.
Person
          "" means any employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) which is covered by ERISA and with respect to which the Borrower, any Subsidiary of the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated at such time, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" within the meaning of Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
          "" has the meaning given thereto in Section 7.1(i).
Platform
          "" means the per annum rate of interest established from time to time by the Administrative Agent at its principal office in Charlotte, North Carolina (or such other principal office of the Administrative Agent as communicated in writing to the Borrower and the Lenders) as its Prime Rate. Any change in the interest rate resulting from a change in the Prime Rate shall become effective as of 12:01 a.m. of the Business Day on which each change in the Prime Rate is announced by the Administrative Agent. The Prime Rate is a reference rate used by the Administrative Agent in determining interest rates on some loans which may be priced at, above or below such announced rate and is not intended to be the lowest rate of interest charged on any extension of credit to any debtor.
Prime Rate
          "" means any real property and any related buildings, fixtures or other improvements located in the United States owned by the Borrower or its Subsidiaries (a) on or in which one of its 30 largest domestic clinical laboratories conducts operations, as determined by net revenues for the four most recent fiscal quarters for which financial statements have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or (b) the net book value of which at the time of the determination exceeds 1% of Total Assets.
Principal Property
          "" has the meaning given thereto in Section 5.1(j).
Projections
          "" means any right, title or interest in or to any property or asset of any kind whatsoever, whether real, personal or mixed and whether tangible or intangible.
Property
          "" has the meaning given thereto in Section 7.1(i).
Public Lender
          "" means Quest Diagnostics Receivables Incorporated, a Delaware corporation, a wholly-owned, bankruptcy-remote, special purpose Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Quest Receivables
          "" has the meaning given thereto in Section 6.19.
Real Properties
          "" means the indebtedness and payment obligations of any Person to any Credit Party or acquired by any Credit Party (including obligations constituting an account or general intangible or evidenced by a note, instrument, contract, security agreement, chattel paper or other evidence of indebtedness or security) arising from a sale of merchandise or the provision of services in the ordinary course of business by such Credit Party or the Person from which such indebtedness and payment obligation were acquired by any Credit Party, including (a) any right to payment for goods sold or for services rendered and (b) the right to payment of any interest, sales taxes, finance charges, returned check or late charges and other obligations of such Person with respect thereto.
Receivable
          "" has the meaning given to it in the first recital.
Refinancing
           "" has the meaning given to it in Section 11.3(c).
Register
          "" means Regulation T, U or X, respectively, of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor to all or a portion thereof.
Regulation T, U or X
          "" means any of the events set forth in Section 4043(c) of ERISA, other than those events as to which the notice requirement has been waived by regulation or by the PBGC.
Reportable Event
          "" means Lenders whose aggregate Credit Exposure (as hereinafter defined) constitutes more than 50% of the Credit Exposure of all Lenders at such time; , , that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time then there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders the aggregate principal amount of Credit Exposure of such Lender at such time. For purposes hereof, the term "" as applied to each Lender shall mean the principal balance of the outstanding Loans of such Lender.
Required Lenders
provided
however
Credit Exposure
          "" means, as to any Person, the articles or certificate of incorporation and by-laws or other organizational or governing documents of such Person, and any law, treaty, rule or regulation or final, non-appealable determination of
Requirement of Law
an arbitrator or a court or other Governmental Authority, in each case applicable to or binding upon such Person or to which any of its material Property is subject.
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or any successor or assignee of the business of such division in the business of rating securities.
S&P
          "" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries of any Principal Property that has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Borrower or any Guarantor to such Person, as the case may be.
Sale and Leaseback Transaction
          "" means with respect to disbursements and payments in Dollars, immediately available funds.
Same Day Funds
          "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, as amended, modified, succeeded or replaced from time to time.
Securities Act
          "" means any Plan which is covered by Title IV of ERISA, but which is not a Multiemployer Plan or a Multiple Employer Plan.
Single Employer Plan
          "" means the Social Security Act as set forth in Title 42 of the United States Code, as amended, and any successor statute thereto, as interpreted by the rules and regulations issued thereunder, in each case as in effect from time to time. References to sections of the Social Security Act shall be construed also to refer to any successor sections.
Social Security Act
          "" means, with respect to any Person as of a particular date, that on such date (a) such Person is able to pay its debts and other liabilities, contingent obligations and other commitments as they mature in the normal course of business, (b) such Person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts or liabilities beyond such Person's ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature in their ordinary course, (c) such Person is not engaged in a business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in a business or a transaction, for which such Person's assets would constitute unreasonably small capital after giving due consideration to the prevailing practice in the industry in which such Person is engaged or is to engage, (d) the fair value of the assets of such Person is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, contingent liabilities, of such Person and (e) the present fair saleable value of the assets of such Person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such Person on its debts as they become absolute and matured. In computing the amount of contingent liabilities at any time, it is intended that such liabilities will be computed at the amount which, in light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability reduced by the amount of any contribution or indemnity that can reasonably be expected to be received.
Solvent
          "SPC" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.3(g).
          "" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.9.
Stock Repurchase
          "" means all Investments in Persons in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries own less than 50% of the Voting Stock of such Person.
Strategic Investment Portfolio
          "" means, as to any Person, (a) any corporation more than 50% of whose stock of any class or classes having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time, any class or classes of such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time owned by such Person directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries, and (b) any partnership, association, joint venture or other entity in which such person directly or indirectly through Subsidiaries has more than a 50% equity interest at any time.
Subsidiary
          "" has the meaning given to it in the preamble.
Syndication Agent
          "" means any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing product where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease in accordance with GAAP.
Synthetic Lease
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 3.13(a).
Taxes
          "" has the meaning given to it in Section 5.1(f).
10% Subordinated Note Tender Offer
          "" means the costs incurred by the Borrower in connection with any tender for outstanding indebtedness of the Borrower, and the termination of the interest rate swap contracts related thereto in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 during the term of this Credit Agreement.
Tender Costs
          "" means the date on which the Merger Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 10.1 of the Merger Agreement (as in effect on the date hereof).
Termination Date
          "" means all items that in accordance with GAAP would be classified as assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.
Total Assets
          "" has the meaning given to it in the second recital.
Transaction
          "" means the United States Department of Defense health care program for service families including, but not limited to, TRICARE Prime, TRICARE Extra and TRICARE Standard, and any successor to or predecessor thereof (including, without limitation, CHAMPUS).
TRICARE
          "" means all classes of the Capital Stock of such Person then outstanding and normally entitled to vote in the election of directors (or similar governing authority).
Voting Stock
                    1.2 .
Other Interpretive Provisions
          With reference to this Credit Agreement and each other Credit Document, unless otherwise specified herein or in such other Credit Document:
                    1.3 .
Accounting Terms/Calculation of Financial Covenants
                    All references to time herein shall be references to Eastern Standard Time or Eastern Daylight Time, as the case may be, unless specified otherwise.
                    1.5 .
Rounding
                    Any financial ratios required to be maintained by the Borrower pursuant to this Credit Agreement shall be calculated by dividing the appropriate component by the other component, carrying the result to one place more than the number of places by which such ratio is expressed herein and rounding the result up or down to the nearest number (with a rounding-up if there is no nearest number).
                    1.6 .
References to Agreements and Laws
                    Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, (a) references to organization documents, agreements (including the Credit Documents) and other contractual instruments shall be deemed to include all subsequent amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications thereto, but only to the extent that such amendments, restatements, extensions, supplements and other modifications are not prohibited by any Credit Document and (b) references to any law shall include all statutory and regulatory provisions (having the force of law) consolidating, amending, replacing, supplementing or interpreting such law.
                    2.1 .
Bridge Loans
                    (a) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, on the Closing Date and on each Delayed Draw Borrowing Date, each Lender severally agrees to make bridge loans (collectively the "" or "") to the Borrower, in Dollars, in an amount equal to such Lender's Bridge Loan Commitment Percentage of the Bridge Loan Committed Amount; , , that (i) the aggregate amount of such Bridge Loans made shall not exceed the Bridge Loan Committed Amount; (ii) no Bridge Loans shall be made hereunder unless, prior to or simultaneously with such Bridge Loans being made, the initial
Bridge Loan Commitment
Bridge Loans
Loans
provided
however
Term Loans (as defined in the Five-Year Credit Agreement) have been made, (iii) the borrowing, on up to two separate dates (each of which shall be a Business Day) following the Closing Date, of Delayed Draw Bridge Loans (each a ""), if any, shall have occurred on or prior to the 90 day following the Closing Date or such later date as mutually agreed upon by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (the "") and (iv) the aggregate amount of such Delayed Draw Bridge Loans shall not exceed the Delayed Draw Committed Amount. Once repaid or prepaid, Bridge Loans cannot be reborrowed.
Delayed Draw Borrowing Date
th
Delayed Draw Commitment Termination Date
                    (b) . By no later than 11:00 a.m. (i) on the date of the requested borrowing of Bridge Loans that will be made as Base Rate Loans or (ii) three Business Days prior to the date of the requested borrowing of Bridge Loans that will be made as Eurodollar Loans denominated in Dollars, the Borrower shall provide telephonic notice to the Administrative Agent, followed promptly by a written Notice of Borrowing in the form of (which may be submitted by telecopy), each of such telephonic notice and such written Notice of Borrowing setting forth (A) the amount requested, (B) whether such Bridge Loans shall accrue interest at the Base Rate or the Eurodollar Rate, (C) with respect to Bridge Loans that will be Eurodollar Loans, the Interest Period applicable thereto and (D) certification that the Borrower has complied in all respects with Sections 5.1 and 5.2 as applicable. Each such notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than (i) three Business Days prior to the requested date of any borrowing of, conversion to or continuation of Eurodollar Loans or of any conversion of Eurodollar Loans to Base Rate Loans and (ii) on the requested date of any borrowing of Base Rate Loans; , , that if the Borrower wishes to request Eurodollar Loans having an Interest Period other than one, two, three or six months in duration as provided in the definition of "Interest Period," the applicable notice must be received by the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. four Business Days prior to the requested date of such borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurodollar Loans, whereupon the Administrative Agent shall give prompt notice to the Lenders of such request and determine whether the requested Interest Period is acceptable to all of them. Not later than 11:00 a.m. three Business days before the requested date of such borrowing, conversion or continuation of Eurodollar Loans, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower (which notice may be by telephone) whether or not the requested Interest Period has been consented to by all the Lenders.
Method for Borrowing Bridge Loans
Exhibit 2.1(b)
provided
however
                    (c) . Each Lender shall make its Bridge Loan Commitment Percentage of the Bridge Loan Committed Amount available to the Administrative Agent by 1:00 p.m. on the Closing Date or the Delayed Draw Borrowing Date, as applicable, by deposit, in Dollars, of immediately available funds at the Agency Services Address. The amount of the Bridge Loans will then be made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent as directed by the Borrower, to the extent the amount of such Bridge Loans are made available to the Administrative Agent. The obligations of the Lenders hereunder to make Bridge Loans and to make payments pursuant to Section 10.7 are several and not joint. No Lender shall be responsible for the failure or delay by any other Lender in its obligation to make Bridge Loans hereunder; provided, however, that the failure of any Lender to fulfill its obligations hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified by any Lender prior to the date of any such Bridge Loan that such Lender does not intend to make available to the Administrative Agent its portion of the Bridge Loans to be made on such date, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has
Funding of Bridge Loans
made such amount available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such Bridge Loans, and the Administrative Agent in reliance upon such assumption, may (in its sole discretion but without any obligation to do so) make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. If such corresponding amount is not in fact made available to the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent shall be able to recover such corresponding amount from such Lender. If such Lender does not pay such corresponding amount upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Borrower, and the Borrower shall immediately pay such corresponding amount to the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover from such Lender or the Borrower, as the case may be, interest on such corresponding amount in respect of each day from the date such corresponding amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower to the date such corresponding amount is recovered by the Administrative Agent at a per annum rate equal to (i) from the Borrower at the Base Rate or (ii) from such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to, during the period to but excluding the date two Business Days after demand therefor, the Federal Funds Rate, and, thereafter, the Base Rate plus two percent (2%) per annum.
                    (d) . The Bridge Loans made by each Lender shall be evidenced by a duly executed promissory note of the Borrower to each Lender that requests a Bridge Note in substantially the form of Exhibit 2.1(d).
Bridge Notes
                    2.2 .
Continuations and Conversions
          Subject to the terms below, the Borrower shall have the option, on any Business Day, to continue existing Eurodollar Loans for a subsequent Interest Period, to convert Base Rate Loans into Eurodollar Loans or to convert Eurodollar Loans into Base Rate Loans. By no later than 11:00 a.m. (a) on the date of the requested conversion of a Eurodollar Loan denominated in Dollars to a Base Rate Loan or (b) three Business Days prior to the date of the requested continuation of a Eurodollar Loan denominated in Dollars or conversion of a Base Rate Loan to a Eurodollar Loan, the Borrower shall provide telephonic notice to the Administrative Agent, followed promptly by a written Notice of Continuation/Conversion, in the form of setting forth (i) whether the Borrower wishes to continue or convert such Loans and (ii) if the request is to continue a Eurodollar Loan or convert a Base Rate Loan to a Eurodollar Loan, the Interest Period applicable thereto. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, (A) except as provided in Section 3.11, Eurodollar Loans may only be continued or converted into Base Rate Loans on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (B) Eurodollar Loans may not be continued nor may Base Rate Loans be converted into Eurodollar Loans during the existence and continuation of a Default or an Event of Default, (C) any request to continue a Eurodollar Loan that fails to comply with the terms hereof or any failure to request a continuation of a Eurodollar Loan at the end of an Interest Period shall constitute a conversion to a Base Rate Loan on the last day of the applicable Interest Period and (D) any failure to state the Interest Period with respect to the continuation of a Eurodollar Loan or the conversion of a Base Rate Loan to a Eurodollar Loan shall constitute a request for a one month Interest Period.
Exhibit 2.2
                    2.3 .
Minimum Amounts
          Each request for a conversion or continuation shall be subject to the requirements that (a) each Eurodollar Loan shall be in a minimum amount of $10,000,000 and in integral multiples
of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, (b) each Base Rate Loan shall be in a minimum amount of $5,000,000 (and in integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof) and (c) no more than ten Eurodollar Loans shall be outstanding hereunder at any one time. For the purposes of this Section 2.3, all Eurodollar Loans with the same Interest Periods that begin and end on the same date shall be considered as one Eurodollar Loan, but Eurodollar Loans with different Interest Periods, even if they begin on the same date, shall be considered as separate Eurodollar Loans.
                    3.1 .
Interest
          All payments to be made by the Borrower shall be made without condition or deduction for any counterclaim, defense, recoupment or setoff. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all payments by the Borrower hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the respective Lenders to which such payment is owed, at the applicable Agency Services Address in Dollars and in Same Day Funds not later than 2:00 p.m. on the date specified herein. The Administrative Agent will promptly distribute to each Lender its pro rata share of such payment (based upon the applicable Commitments of the Lenders) in like funds as received by wire transfer to such Lender's Lending Office. All payments received by the Administrative Agent after 2:00 p.m., in the case of payments in Dollars shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day and any applicable interest or fee shall continue to accrue. If any payment to be made by any Borrower shall come due on a day other than a Business Day, payment shall be made on the next following Business Day, and such extension of time shall be reflected in computing interest or fees, as the case may be.
                    3.3 .
Prepayments
                    3.5 .
Payment in full at Maturity
          On the Maturity Date, the entire outstanding principal balance of all Loans, together with accrued but unpaid interest and all other sums owing with respect thereto, shall be due and payable in full, unless accelerated sooner pursuant to Section 9.
          If the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive and binding upon the Borrower) in connection with any request for a Eurodollar Loan or a conversion to or continuation thereof that (a) Dollar deposits are not being offered to banks in the applicable offshore Dollar market for the applicable amount and Interest Period of such Eurodollar Loan, (b) adequate and reasonable means do not exist for determining the Eurodollar Rate for such Eurodollar Loan, or (c) the Eurodollar Rate for such Eurodollar Loan does not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to the Lenders of funding such Eurodollar Loan, the Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Borrower and all the Lenders. Thereafter, the obligation of the Lenders to make or maintain Eurodollar Loans shall be suspended until the Administrative Agent revokes
such notice. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower may revoke any pending Notice of Borrowing or Notice of Continuation/Conversion with respect to Eurodollar Loans or, failing that, will be deemed to have converted such request into a request for a borrowing of or conversion into a Base Rate Loan in the amount specified therein.
                    3.11 .
Illegality
          If any Lender determines that any Requirement of Law has made it unlawful, or that any Governmental Authority has asserted that it is unlawful, for any Lender or its applicable Lending Office to make, maintain or fund Eurodollar Loans, or materially restricts the authority of such Lender to purchase or sell, or to take deposits of, Dollars in the applicable offshore Dollar market, or to determine or charge interest rates based upon the Eurodollar Rate, then, on notice thereof by such Lender to the Borrower through the Administrative Agent, any obligation of such Lender to make or continue Eurodollar Loans or to convert Base Rate Loans to Eurodollar Loans shall be suspended until such Lender notifies the Administrative Agent and the Borrower that the circumstances giving rise to such determination no longer exist. Upon receipt of such notice, the Borrower shall, upon demand from such Lender (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), prepay or, if applicable, convert all Eurodollar Loans of such Lender to Base Rate Loans, either on the last day of the Interest Period thereof, if such Lender may lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Loans to such day, or immediately, if such Lender may not lawfully continue to maintain such Eurodollar Loans. Upon any such prepayment or conversion, the Borrower shall also pay interest on the amount so prepaid or converted, together with any amounts due with respect thereto pursuant to Section 3.14. Each Lender agrees to designate a different Lending Office if such designation will avoid the need for such notice and will not, in the good faith judgment of such Lender, otherwise be materially disadvantageous to such Lender.
                    3.12 .
Requirements of Law
          If any Lender determines that as a result of the introduction of or any change in, or in the interpretation of, any Requirement of Law, or such Lender's compliance therewith, there shall be any increase in the cost to such Lender of agreeing to make or making, funding or maintaining Eurodollar Loans or a reduction in the amount received or receivable by such Lender in connection with any of the foregoing (excluding for purposes of this subsection (a) any such increased costs or reduction in amount resulting from (i) Taxes or Other Taxes (as to which Section 3.13 shall govern) and (ii) reserve requirements utilized in the determination of the Eurodollar Rate), then from time to time, within 10 days of demand of such Lender (with a copy of such demand to the Administrative Agent), the Borrower shall pay to such Lender such additional amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction in yield.
                    3.13 .
Taxes
any other of the Credit Documents or any collateral, if any, hereafter securing the Credit Party Obligations or otherwise and each Guarantor hereby waives the right to require the Lenders to proceed against the Borrower or any other Person (including a co-guarantor) or to require the Lenders to pursue any other remedy or enforce any other right. Each Guarantor further agrees that it shall have no right of subrogation, indemnity, reimbursement or contribution against the Borrower or any other Guarantor of the Credit Party Obligations for amounts paid under this Guaranty until such time as the Lenders have been paid in full and all Commitments under the Credit Agreement have been terminated. Each Guarantor further agrees that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Lenders from suing on the Notes or any of the other Credit Documents or foreclosing its security interest in or Lien on any collateral, if any, securing the Credit Party Obligations or from exercising any other rights available to it under this Credit Agreement, the Notes, any other of the Credit Documents, or any other instrument of security, if any, and the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights and the completion of any foreclosure proceedings shall not constitute a discharge of any of any Guarantor's obligations hereunder; it being the purpose and intent of each Guarantor that its obligations hereunder shall be absolute, independent and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Neither any Guarantor's obligations under this Guaranty nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Borrower or by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Borrower. Each Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Credit Party Obligations and notice of or proof of reliance of by the Administrative Agent or any Lender upon this Guaranty or acceptance of this Guaranty. The Credit Party Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guaranty. All dealings between the Borrower and any of the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the other hand, likewise shall be conclusively presumed to have been had or consummated in reliance upon this Guaranty. The Guarantors further agree to all rights of set-off as set forth in Section 11.2.
                    4.3 .
Modifications
          Each Guarantor agrees that (a) all or any part of the collateral, if any, now or hereafter held for the Credit Party Obligations, if any, may be exchanged, compromised or surrendered from time to time; (b) the Lenders shall not have any obligation to protect, perfect, secure or insure any such security interests, liens or encumbrances now or hereafter held, if any, for the Credit Party Obligations or the properties subject thereto; (c) the time or place of payment of the Credit Party Obligations may be changed or extended, in whole or in part, to a time certain or otherwise, and may be renewed or accelerated, in whole or in part; (d) the Borrower and any other party liable for payment under the Credit Documents may be granted indulgences generally; (e) any of the provisions of the Notes or any of the other Credit Documents may be modified, amended or waived; (f) any party (including any co-guarantor) liable for the payment thereof may be granted indulgences or be released; and (g) any deposit balance for the credit of the Borrower or any other party liable for the payment of the Credit Party Obligations or liable upon any security therefor may be released, in whole or in part, at, before or after the stated, extended or accelerated maturity of the Credit Party Obligations, all without notice to or further assent by such Guarantor, which shall remain bound thereon, notwithstanding any such exchange, compromise, surrender, extension, renewal, acceleration, modification, indulgence or release.
                    4.4 .
Waiver of Rights
          Each Guarantor expressly waives to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law: (a) notice of acceptance of this Guaranty by the Lenders and of all extensions of credit to the Borrower by the Lenders; (b) presentment and demand for payment or performance of any of the Credit Party Obligations; (c) protest and notice of dishonor or of default (except as specifically required in the Credit Agreement) with respect to the Credit Party Obligations or with respect to any security therefor; (d) notice of the Lenders obtaining, amending, substituting for, releasing, waiving or modifying any security interest, lien or encumbrance, if any, hereafter securing the Credit Party Obligations, or the Lenders' subordinating, compromising, discharging or releasing such security interests, liens or encumbrances, if any; and (e) all other notices to which such Guarantor might otherwise be entitled.
                    4.5 .
Reinstatement
          The obligations of the Guarantors under this Section 4 shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Credit Party Obligations is rescinded or must be otherwise restored by any holder of any of the Credit Party Obligations, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise, and each Guarantor agrees that it will indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender on demand for all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable Attorney Costs) incurred by the Administrative Agent or such Lender in connection with such rescission or restoration, including any such costs and expenses incurred in defending against any claim alleging that such payment constituted a preference, fraudulent transfer or similar payment under any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar law.
                    4.6 .
Remedies
          The Guarantors agree that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the other hand, the Credit Party Obligations may be declared to be forthwith due and payable as provided in Section 9 (and shall be deemed to have become automatically due and payable in the circumstances provided in Section 9) notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such declaration (or preventing such Credit Party Obligations from becoming automatically due and payable) as against any other Person and that, in the event of such declaration (or such Credit Party Obligations being deemed to have become automatically due and payable), such Credit Party Obligations (whether or not due and payable by any other Person) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors.
                    4.7 .
Limitation of Guaranty
          Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in any of the other Credit Documents, to the extent the obligations of any Guarantor shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers) then the obligations of such Guarantor hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state or otherwise and including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).
                    4.8 .
Rights of Contribution
          The Credit Parties agree among themselves that, in connection with payments made hereunder, each Credit Party shall have contribution rights against the other Credit Parties as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of the Credit Parties under the Credit Documents and no Credit Party shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Credit Party Obligations have been paid in full and the Commitments terminated.
                    4.9 .
Release of Guarantors
          Subject to Section 7.12(b), if any of the Guarantors shall cease to be a Material Domestic Subsidiary of the Borrower for any reason subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Credit Agreement, then such Guarantor shall, automatically and without any further action on the part of any party to any Credit Document, and upon notice to the Administrative Agent, be fully released and discharged from all its liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Credit Documents to which such Guarantor is a party (other than liabilities and obligations resulting from a demand on such Guarantor's Guaranty pursuant to Section 9.2) and, promptly upon the request of the Borrower and at the expense of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall execute such documents and take such other action as is reasonably requested by the Borrower to evidence the release and discharge of such Guarantor from all such liabilities and obligations and shall, if applicable, certify to the Borrower that such Guarantor has no liabilities or obligations resulting from a demand on such Guarantor's Guaranty pursuant to Section 9.2.
                    5.1 .
Closing Conditions to Extensions of Credit Made on the Closing Date
          The obligation of the Lenders to make the initial Extensions of Credit is subject to satisfaction (or waiver) of the following conditions:
                    6.3 .
Enforceable Obligations
          Each Credit Party has duly executed this Credit Agreement and each other Credit Document to which such Credit Party is a party and this Credit Agreement and such other Credit Documents constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of such Credit Party enforceable against such Credit Party in accordance with their respective terms, except as may be limited by bankruptcy or insolvency laws or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally or by general equitable principles.
                    6.4 .
No Conflicts
          Neither the execution and delivery of the Credit Documents to which it is a party, nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated herein and therein, nor the performance of or compliance with the terms and provisions hereof and thereof by a Credit Party will (a) violate, contravene or conflict with any provision of such Credit Party's organizational documents, (b) violate, contravene or conflict with any Requirement of Law (including, without limitation, Regulations T, U or X), order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree, license or permit applicable to such Credit Party which violation would have or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, (c) violate, contravene or conflict with contractual provisions of, or cause an event of default under, any indenture, loan agreement, mortgage, deed of trust, contract or other agreement or instrument to which such Credit Party is a party or by which it or its properties may be bound which violation would have or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (d) result in or require the creation of any Lien upon or with respect to the properties of such Credit Party.
                    6.5 .
Consents
          Except for consents, approvals and authorizations which have been obtained or the absence of which would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, no consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration or qualification with, any Governmental Authority, equity owner or third party in respect of any Credit Party is required in connection with the execution, delivery or performance of this Credit Agreement or any of the other Credit Documents, or the consummation of any transaction contemplated herein or therein by such Credit Party.
                    6.6 .
Financial Condition
          The financial statements delivered to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders pursuant to Sections 7.1(a) and (b): (a) have been prepared in accordance with GAAP and (b) present fairly the consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of such date and for such periods. Since December 31, 2006,there has been no sale, transfer or other disposition by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries of any material part of the business or property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, or purchase or other acquisition by any such Person of any business or property (including any Capital Stock of any other Person) material in relation to the consolidated financial condition of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case, which, is not (i) reflected in the most recent financial statements delivered to the Lenders prior to the date hereof or pursuant to Section 7.1 or in the notes
thereto or (ii) otherwise permitted by the terms of this Credit Agreement and communicated to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
                    6.7 .
Intentionally Omitted
                    6.8 .
Disclosure
          Neither this Credit Agreement, nor any other Credit Document, nor any financial statements delivered to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders nor any other document, certificate or statement furnished to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders by or on behalf of any Credit Party in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, taken as a whole, contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained therein or herein not misleading.
                    6.9 .
No Default
          No Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing or would result from the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents.
                    6.10 .
Litigation
          Except as set forth in , no litigation, investigation, claim, criminal prosecution, civil investigative demand, imposition of criminal or civil fines and penalties, or any other proceeding of or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority is pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened by or against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or against any of its or their respective Properties (a) with respect to the Credit Documents or any Loan or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or (b) which would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 6.10
                    6.11 .
Taxes
          The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries has filed, or caused to be filed, all material tax returns (federal, state, local and foreign) required to be filed and has paid (a) all amounts of taxes shown thereon to be due (including interest and penalties) and (b) all other material taxes, fees, assessments and other governmental charges (including mortgage recording taxes, documentary stamp taxes and intangibles taxes) owing by it, except for such taxes (i) which are not yet delinquent or (ii) that are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings, and against which adequate reserves are being maintained in accordance with GAAP.
                    6.12 .
Compliance with Law
          Except to the extent the same would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect:
          (a) The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all Requirements of Law (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws, ERISA,
extent that self-insurance is maintained in reasonable amounts), in such amounts, with such deductibles and covering such risks, as is reasonable and prudent.
          The Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries owns, or has the legal right to use, all material patents, trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, technology, know-how and processes (the "") necessary for each of them to conduct its business as currently conducted other than as would not have or would not be reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No claim has been asserted and is pending by any Person challenging or questioning the use of any Intellectual Property owned by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or that the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries has a right to use or the validity or effectiveness of any such Intellectual Property, nor does the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries have knowledge of any such claim, and, to the knowledge of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, the use of any Intellectual Property by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries does not infringe on the rights of any Person, except for such claims
Intellectual Property
and infringements that in the aggregate, would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
                    6.21 .
Subsidiaries
          As of the date hereof, set forth on is a complete and accurate list of all Subsidiaries of the Borrower and which of such Subsidiaries are Material Domestic Subsidiaries.
Schedule 6.21
                    6.22 .
Solvency
          Each Credit Party is and, after consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement, will be Solvent.
                    6.23 .
Taxpayer Identification Number
          The Borrower's true and correct U.S. taxpayer identification number is set forth on .
Schedule 6.23
          Each Credit Party hereby covenants and agrees that so long as this Credit Agreement is in effect and until the Loans, together with interest and fees and other obligations then due and payable hereunder, have been paid in full:
                    7.1 .
Information Covenants
          The Credit Parties will furnish, or cause to be furnished, to the Administrative Agent and each of the Lenders an electronic (if readily available) and a hard copy of:
          The Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, do all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights, franchises, Intellectual Property and authority except as permitted by Section 8.4; that neither the Borrower nor any of its Subsidiaries shall be required to preserve any rights, franchises, Intellectual Property or authority if the Borrower or such Subsidiary shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of its business and if the loss thereof would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
provided
                    7.4 .
Books and Records
          The Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, keep complete and accurate books and records of its transactions in order to produce its financial statements in accordance with GAAP (including the establishment and maintenance of appropriate reserves).
                    7.5 .
Compliance with Law
          Except to the extent the failure to do so would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, (a) comply with all Requirements of Law, and all applicable restrictions imposed by all
Governmental Authorities, applicable to it and its Property (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws and ERISA), (b) conform with and duly observe in all material respects all laws, rules and regulations and all other valid requirements of any regulatory authority with respect to the conduct of its business, including without limitation, HIPAA, Medicare Regulations, Medicaid Regulations, and all laws, rules and regulations of Governmental Authorities, pertaining to the business of the Credit Parties; (c) obtain and maintain all licenses, permits, certifications and approvals of all applicable Governmental Authorities as are required for the conduct of its business as currently conducted and herein contemplated, including without limitation professional licenses, CLIA certifications, Medicare Provider Agreements and Medicaid Provider Agreements; (d) ensure that (i) billing policies, arrangements, protocols and instructions will comply with reimbursement requirements under Medicare, Medicaid and other Medical Reimbursement Programs and will be administered by properly trained personnel; (ii) medical director compensation arrangements and other arrangements with referring physicians will comply with applicable state and federal self-referral and anti-kickback laws, including without limitation 42 U.S.C. Section 1320a-7b(b)(1) - (b)(2) 42 U.S.C. and 42 U.S.C. Section 1395nn; and (iii) no event or related events occur that results in the exclusion of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries from participation in any Medical Reimbursement Program and (e) make commercially reasonable efforts to implement policies that are consistent with HIPAA on or before the date that any Credit Party is required to comply therewith.
                    7.6 .
Payment of Taxes and Other Indebtedness
          The Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, pay, settle or discharge (a) all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges or levies imposed upon it, or upon its income or profits, or upon any of its properties, before they shall become delinquent, (b) all material lawful claims (including claims for labor, materials and supplies) which, if unpaid, might give rise to a Lien upon any of its properties, and (c) all of its other material Indebtedness as it shall become due (to the extent such repayment is not otherwise prohibited by this Credit Agreement); , , that a Credit Party shall not be required to pay any such tax, assessment, charge, levy, claim or Indebtedness which is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and as to which adequate reserves therefor have been established in accordance with GAAP, unless the failure to make any such payment (i) would give rise to an immediate right to foreclose or collect on a Lien securing such amounts or (ii) would have or would reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
provided
however
                    7.7 .
Insurance
          The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, at all times maintain in full force and effect insurance (including worker's compensation, liability, casualty and business interruption insurance) with reputable national companies that are not Affiliates of the Borrower (except to the extent that self-insurance is maintained in reasonable amounts), in such amounts, covering such risks and liabilities as is reasonable and prudent.
                    7.8 .
Maintenance of Property
          The Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, maintain and preserve its properties and equipment in good repair, working order and condition, normal wear and tear excepted, and will
make, or cause to be made, in such properties and equipment from time to time all repairs, renewals, replacements, extensions, additions, betterments and improvements thereto as may be needed or proper, in each case to the extent and in the manner customary for companies in similar businesses.
                    7.9 .
Performance of Obligations
          Except to the extent the failure to do so would not have or would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, the Borrower will, and will cause its Subsidiaries to, perform all of its obligations under the terms of all contracts, agreements or other agreements not evidencing Indebtedness to which it is a party or by which it or its Properties may be bound.
                    7.10 .
Use of Proceeds
          The Borrower will use the proceeds of the Loans solely for the Transactions; provided, however, that the proceeds of any Delayed Draw Bridge Loans shall be used solely for the purpose of paying the principal of, and any accrued and unpaid interest on, Ameripath's existing debt as set forth below, together with related fees and expenses:
                    7.11 .
Audits/Inspections
          Upon reasonable notice and during normal business hours, but not more than once per calendar year, the Borrower will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to, permit representatives appointed by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, including, without limitation, independent accountants, agents, attorneys and appraisers to visit and inspect the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's Property, including its books and records, its accounts receivable and inventory, its facilities and its other business assets, and to make photocopies or photographs thereof and to write down and record any information such representative obtains and shall permit the Administrative Agent, any Lender or its representatives to investigate and verify the accuracy of information provided to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders and to discuss all such matters with the officers, employees and representatives of the Borrower and/or its Subsidiaries, , during the existence of a Default or Event of Default, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may request as many inspections as reasonable under the circumstances. Any expenses incurred in connection with this Section 7.11 shall be for the account of the Lenders unless an Event of Default exists in which case such expenses shall be for the account of the Borrower. Any representatives appointed by the Administrative Agent shall sign a confidentiality agreement reasonably acceptable to the Borrower prior to any visit, investigation, inspection or verification permitted by this Section 7.11.
; provided
however
                    7.12 .
Additional Credit Parties
                    7.13 .
Compliance Program
          The Borrower will, and will cause each of its Domestic Subsidiaries that operates a clinical laboratory to, maintain, and be operated in accordance with, a compliance program which is reasonably designed to provide effective internal controls that promote adherence to applicable federal and state law and the program requirements of federal and state health plans, and which includes the implementation of internal audits and monitoring on a regular basis to monitor compliance with the requirements of the compliance program and applicable law, regulations and company policies.
          Each Credit Party hereby covenants and agrees that so long as this Credit Agreement is in effect and until the Loans, together with interest, fees and other obligations then due and payable hereunder, have been paid in full:
                    8.1 .
Indebtedness
          The Borrower will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, contract, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, other than:
                    8.2 .
Liens
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, contract, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien with respect to any of its Property of any kind (whether real or personal, tangible or intangible), whether now owned or after acquired, other than Permitted Liens.
                    8.3 .
Nature of Business
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, alter the character of its business from that conducted as of the date hereof or engage in any substantial manner in any business other than (a) the business conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as of the date hereof and (b) other healthcare-related businesses and businesses reasonably related thereto.
                    8.4 .
Consolidation and Merger
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation or liquidate, wind up or dissolve itself, or suffer any such liquidation, wind-up or dissolution; that (subject to Sections 7.12 and 7.13) (a) a Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge into the Borrower or another Subsidiary of the Borrower, (b) a Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with another Person in a transaction otherwise permitted by Section 8.5 or (c) the Borrower or a Subsidiary of the Borrower may merge or consolidate with or into another Person if the following conditions are satisfied:
provided
                    8.5 .
Sale or Lease of Assets
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, convey, sell, lease, transfer or otherwise voluntarily dispose of, in one transaction or a series of transactions, all or any part of its business or assets whether now owned or hereafter acquired, including, without limitation, inventory, receivables, equipment, real property interests (whether owned or leasehold) and securities, other than a sale, lease, transfer or other disposal of (a) subject to Sections 7.12 and 7.13, assets from the Borrower or one of its Subsidiaries to each other; (b) inventory and supplies in the
ordinary course of business; (c) obsolete, surplus, slow-moving, idle or worn-out assets no longer used or useful in the business of such Credit Party or the trade-in of equipment for equipment in better condition or of better quality; (d) assets which constitute a Permitted Investment in the ordinary course of business; (e) Receivables pursuant to a Permitted Receivables Financing; (f) Investments in the Strategic Investments Portfolio and (g) assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in addition to those permitted above in this Section 8.5; that in the case of this clause (g) (i) no Event of Default exists prior to such transfer, (ii) no Default or Event of Default exists after giving effect to such transfer and (iii) after giving effect to such transfer, the aggregate amount of all such transfers, calculated on a net book value basis, does not exceed ten percent (10%) of Total Assets, as determined on the last day of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Borrower for which an officer's certificate has been delivered pursuant to Section 7.1(c).
provided
                    8.6 .
Investments
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, make or permit to exist any Investments except for Permitted Investments.
                    8.7 .
Transactions with Affiliates
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, enter into any transaction or series of transactions, whether or not in the ordinary course of business, with any officer, director, shareholder, Subsidiary or Affiliate other than on terms and conditions substantially as favorable as would be obtainable in a comparable arm's-length transaction with a Person other than an officer, director, shareholder, Subsidiary or Affiliate, that, notwithstanding the foregoing, each of the following shall be permitted: (a) transactions between or among the Credit Parties; (b) transactions between or among the Borrower and its wholly owned Subsidiaries as long as such transaction is not disadvantageous to the Lenders in any material respect; (c) transactions between or among the Borrower or one or more of its wholly owned Subsidiaries (on the one hand) and one of the non-wholly owned Subsidiaries of the Borrower (on the other hand) as long as none of the equity of such non-wholly owned Subsidiary is owned or controlled by an officer or director of any Credit Party;(d) advances to employees permitted by clause (f) of the definition of Permitted Investments; (e) Dividends; (f) fees, compensation and other benefits paid to, and customary indemnity and reimbursement provided on behalf of, officers, directors and employees of any Credit Party in the ordinary course of business; (g) any employment agreements entered into by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in the ordinary course of business; (h) any Permitted Receivables Financing; and (i) transactions and agreements in existence on the date hereof and listed on and, in each case, any amendment thereto, that is not disadvantageous to the Lenders in any material respect.
except
Schedule 8.7
                    8.8 .
Fiscal Year; Accounting; Organizational Documents
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, unless such action (i) would not affect the calculation of the financial covenants in Section 7.2 and (ii) would not or would not reasonably be likely to affect the rights of the Lenders under the Credit Documents: (a) change its fiscal year other than changing the fiscal year of a Subsidiary of the Borrower to a calendar year
end, (b) change its accounting procedures, except as a result of changes in GAAP and in accordance with Section 1.3 or (c) change its organizational or governing documents.
                    8.9 .
Stock Repurchases
          The Borrower will not, nor will it permit its Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire or make any provisions for redemption, acquisition or retirement of any shares of the Capital Stock of the Borrower of any class or any warrants or options to purchase any such shares (collectively, a ""); that the Borrower or its Subsidiaries may consummate Stock Repurchases as long as on the date of such Stock Repurchase and after giving effect to such Stock Repurchase no Default or Event of Default exists and is continuing.
Stock Repurchase
provided
                    8.10 .
Sale/Leasebacks
                    9.1 .
Events of Default
          An Event of Default shall exist upon the occurrence, and during the continuation, of any of the following specified events (each an ""):
Event of Default
          Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may or shall, upon the request and direction of the Required Lenders, take the following actions without prejudice to the rights of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to enforce its claims against the Credit Parties, except as otherwise specifically provided for herein:
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if an Event of Default specified in Section 9.1(f) shall occur, then all Loans, all accrued interest in respect thereof, all accrued and unpaid fees and other indebtedness or obligations owing to the Lenders hereunder shall immediately become due and payable without the giving of any notice or other action by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders, which notice or other action is expressly waived by the Credit Parties.
Notwithstanding the fact that enforcement powers reside primarily with the Administrative Agent, each Lender has, to the extent permitted by law, a separate right of payment and shall be considered a separate "creditor" holding a separate "claim" within the meaning of Section 101(5) of the Bankruptcy Code or any other insolvency statute.
                    9.3 .
Allocation of Payments After Event of Default
          Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Credit Agreement, after the exercise of any remedies by the Administrative Agent or the Lenders pursuant to Section 9.2 (or after any Event of Default that all of the Credit Party Obligations to be due hereunder), all amounts collected or received by the Administrative Agent or any Lender on account of amounts outstanding under any of the Credit Documents shall be paid over or delivered as follows:
In carrying out the foregoing, (a) amounts received shall be applied in the numerical order provided until exhausted prior to application to the next succeeding category and (b) each of the Lenders shall receive an amount equal to its pro rata share (based on the proportion that the then outstanding Loans held by such Lender bears to the aggregate then outstanding Loans of amounts available to be applied.
          The Administrative Agent may execute any of its duties under this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document by or through agents, employees or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel and other consultants or experts concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact that it selects with reasonable care.
          No Agent-Related Person shall (a) be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by any of them under or in connection with this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document or the transactions contemplated hereby (except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct in connection with its duties expressly set forth herein), or (b) be responsible in any manner to any Lender or participant for any recital, statement, representation or warranty made by any Credit Party or any officer thereof, contained herein or in any other Credit Document, or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Administrative Agent under or in connection with, this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, or the validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, or for any failure of any Credit Party or any other party to any Credit Document to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. No Agent-Related Person shall be under any obligation to any Lender or participant to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of any Credit Party or any Affiliate thereof.
          The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, except with respect to defaults in the payment of principal, interest and fees required to be paid to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders, unless the Administrative Agent shall have received written notice from a Lender or the Borrower referring to this Credit Agreement, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default." The Administrative Agent will notify the Lenders of its receipt of any such notice. The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default or Event of Default as may be reasonably directed by the Required Lenders in accordance with Section 9.2; , , that unless and until the Administrative Agent has received any such direction, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default or Event of Default as it shall deem advisable or in the best interest of the Lenders.
provided
however
          Each Lender acknowledges that no Agent-Related Person has made any representation or warranty to it, and that no act by the Administrative Agent hereinafter taken, including any consent to and acceptance of any assignment or review of the affairs of any Credit Party or any Affiliate thereof, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by any Agent-Related Person to any Lender as to any matter, including whether Agent-Related Persons have disclosed material information in their possession. Each Lender represents to the Administrative Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, prospects, operations, Property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Credit Parties and their respective Affiliates, and all applicable bank or other regulatory laws relating to the transactions contemplated hereby, and made its own decision to enter into this Credit Agreement and to extend credit to the Borrower hereunder. Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents, and to make such investigations as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, prospects, operations, Property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Borrower. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, prospects, operations, Property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of any of the Credit Parties or any of their respective Affiliates which may come into the possession of any Agent-Related Person.
                    10.7 .
Indemnification
          To the extent that the Borrower for any reason fails to indefeasibly pay any amount required under Section 11.5 to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent (or any sub-agent thereof), the Issuing Lender or any Agent-Related Person of any of the foregoing, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent), the Issuing Lender or such Agent-Related Person, as the case may be, such Lender's Revolving Loan Commitment Percentage and/or Term Loan Commitment Loan Percentage, as applicable, (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount, that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or the Issuing Lender in its capacity as such, or against any Agent-Related Person of any of the foregoing acting for the Administrative Agent (or any such sub-agent) or Issuing Lender in connection with such capacity.
provided
                    10.8 .
Administrative Agent in Its Individual Capacity
          Bank of America and its Affiliates may make loans to, issue letters of credit for the account of, accept deposits from, acquire equity interests in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust, financial advisory, underwriting or other business with each of the Credit Parties and their respective Affiliates as though Bank of America were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without notice to or consent of the Lenders. The Lenders acknowledge that, pursuant to such activities, Bank of America or its Affiliates may receive information regarding any Credit Party or its Affiliates (including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in favor of such Credit Party or such Affiliate) and that the Administrative Agent shall be under no obligation to provide such information to them. With respect to its Loans, Bank of America shall have the same rights and powers under this Credit Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise such rights and powers as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" include Bank of America in its individual capacity.
                    10.9 .
Successor Agent
          The Administrative Agent may resign as Administrative Agent upon 30 days' notice to the Lenders. If the Administrative Agent resigns under this Credit Agreement, the Required Lenders shall appoint from among the Lenders a successor administrative agent for the Lenders which successor administrative agent (such appointment, absent the existence of an Event of Default, to be subject to the consent of the Borrower, which consent of the Borrower shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed). If no successor administrative agent is appointed prior to the effective date of the resignation of the Administrative Agent, the Administrative Agent may appoint, after consulting with the Lenders and the Borrower, a successor administrative agent from among the Lenders. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as successor administrative agent hereunder, such successor administrative agent shall succeed to all the rights, powers and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent and the term "Administrative Agent" shall mean such successor administrative agent and the retiring Administrative Agent's appointment, powers and duties as Administrative Agent shall be terminated. After any retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder as Administrative Agent, the provisions of this Section 10 and Sections 11.5 and 11.10 shall continue to inure to its benefit as to any actions taken or omitted to be taken
by it while it was Administrative Agent under this Credit Agreement. If no successor administrative agent has accepted appointment as Administrative Agent by the date which is 30 days following a retiring Administrative Agent's notice of resignation, the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation shall nevertheless thereupon become effective and the Lenders shall perform all of the duties of the Administrative Agent hereunder until such time, if any, as the Required Lenders appoint a successor agent as provided for above.
                    10.10 .
Agent May File Proofs of Claim
          In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under the Credit Documents.
          Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Credit Party Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
          In addition to any rights now or hereafter granted under applicable law or otherwise, and not by way of limitation of any such rights, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default and the commencement of remedies described in Section 9.2, each Lender is authorized at any time and from time to time, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind (all of which rights being hereby expressly waived), to set-off and to appropriate and apply any and all deposits (general or special) and any other indebtedness at any time held or owing by such Lender (including, without limitation, branches, agencies or Affiliates of such Lender wherever located) to or for the credit or the account of any Credit Party against obligations and liabilities of such Credit Party to the Lenders hereunder, under the Notes, the other Credit Documents or otherwise, irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent or the Lenders shall have made any demand hereunder and although such obligations, liabilities or claims, or any of them, may be contingent or unmatured, and any such set-off shall be deemed to have been made immediately upon the occurrence of an Event of Default even though such charge is made or entered on the books of such Lender subsequent thereto. The Credit Parties hereby agree that any Person purchasing a participation in the Loans and Commitments hereunder pursuant to Sections 11.3(e) or 3.8 may exercise all rights of set-off with respect to its participation interest as fully as if such Person were a Lender hereunder.
Subject to acceptance and recording thereof by the Administrative Agent pursuant to subsection (c) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, the assignee thereunder shall be a party to this Agreement and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 3.9, 3.12, 3.13, 3.14 and 11.5 with respect to facts and circumstances
occurring prior to the effective date of such assignment). Upon request, the Borrower (at its expense) shall execute and deliver a Note to the assignee Lender. Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this subsection shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with subsection (d) of this Section.
Notwithstanding the above, no provisions of Section 10 may be amended or modified without the consent of the Administrative Agent.
Notwithstanding the fact that the consent of all the Lenders is required in certain circumstances as set forth above, (x) each Lender is entitled to vote as such Lender sees fit on any reorganization plan that affects the Loans, and each Lender acknowledges that the provisions of Section 1126(c) of the Bankruptcy Code supersedes the unanimous consent provisions set forth herein and (y) the Required Lenders may consent to allow a Credit Party to use cash collateral in the context of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding.
If, in connection with any proposed amendment, waiver or consent requiring the consent of a greater percentage of the Lenders than the Required Lenders and the consent of the Required Lenders is obtained, but the consent of one or more other Lenders is not obtained (any such Lender which declares in writing that it will not provide such consent or whose consent is not obtained within the
applicable period prescribed for such amendment, waiver or consent being referred to herein as a ""), then, so long as the Administrative Agent is not a Non-Consenting Lender, the Borrower may within 45 days of such Lender becoming a Non-Consenting Lender, give notice in writing to the Administrative Agent and such Non-Consenting Lender of the Borrower's intention to cause such Non-Consenting Lender to sell all of such Non-Consenting Lenders' interests in its Commitments for an amount equal to the principal balances thereof and all accrued interest and fees with respect thereto through the date of sale pursuant to one or more Assignment and Acceptance Agreements, such sale being without premium or discount. In the event of any such notice, such Non-Consenting Lender shall be required to sell and assign such interests (including all related rights and obligations ) as provided in this Section. Any such sale of a Non-Consenting Lender's Commitments must be to an Eligible Assignee and, unless otherwise agreed to by the Administrative Agent, the Borrower shall be solely responsible for sourcing such Eligible Assignee, at no cost or expense to the Administrative Agent or any Lender. Any such assignment to an Eligible Assignee pursuant to this Section shall be in accordance with clause (b)(iv) of Section 11.3. At any time during or after the period during which a proposed amendment, waiver or consent was pending, upon the request of the Borrower the Administrative Agent shall promptly provide (but in any event within one Business Day) the Borrower with the names, contact information, Commitment percentages, principal balances and any other information reasonably requested for each Lender which, at the time of such request, was either a Non-Consenting Lender or had not yet decided whether or not to approve or consent to such amendment, waiver or consent.
Non-Consenting Lender
                    11.7 .
Counterparts
          This Credit Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument.
                    
11.8 .
Headings
          The headings of the sections and subsections hereof are provided for convenience only and shall not in any way affect the meaning or construction of any provision of this Credit Agreement.
                    11.9 .
Defaulting Lender
          Each Lender understands and agrees that if such Lender is a Defaulting Lender then notwithstanding the provisions of Section 11.6 it shall not be entitled to vote on any matter requiring the consent of the Required Lenders or to object to any matter requiring the consent of all the Lenders; , , that all other benefits and obligations under the Credit Documents shall apply to such Defaulting Lender.
provided
however
                    11.10 .
Survival of Indemnification
          All indemnities set forth herein shall survive the execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement, the making of the Loans and the repayment of the Loans and other obligations and the termination of the Commitments hereunder. All representations and warranties made hereunder and in any other Credit Document or other document delivered pursuant hereto or thereto or in connection herewith or therewith shall survive the execution and delivery hereof and thereof. Such representations and warranties have been or will be relied upon by the Administrative Agent and
each Lender, regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent or any Lender or on their behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default at the time of any Extension of Credit, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as any Loan or any other Credit Party Obligation hereunder shall remain unpaid or unsatisfied.
                    11.11 .
Governing Law; Venue; Jurisdiction
                    11.12 .
Waiver of Jury Trial; Waiver of Consequential Damages
          EACH OF THE PARTIES TO THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, ANY OF THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED
TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. Each Credit Party agrees not to assert any claim against the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Lenders, any Lender, any of their Affiliates, or any of their respective directors, officers, employees, attorneys or agents, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages arising out of or otherwise relating to any of the transactions contemplated herein.
                    11.13 .
Severability
          If any provision of any of the Credit Documents is determined to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be fully severable and the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and effect and shall be construed without giving effect to the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provisions.
                    11.14 .
Further Assurances
          The Credit Parties agree, upon the request of the Administrative Agent, to promptly take such actions, as reasonably requested, as is necessary to carry out the intent of this Credit Agreement and the other Credit Documents.
                    
11.15 .
Confidentiality
          Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and representatives, excluding equity security departments and their members (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any other Credit Document or any action or proceeding relating to this Credit Agreement or any other Credit Document or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or Loan Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Loan Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Credit Agreement or (ii) any actual or prospective counterparty (or its advisors) to any swap or derivative transaction relating to a Credit Party and its obligations, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. In addition, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may disclose the existence of this Credit Agreement and information about this Credit Agreement to market data collectors, similar service providers to the lending industry and service providers to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in connection with the administration and management of this Credit Agreement, the other Credit Documents and the Loans.
For purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, that, in the case of information received from the Borrower or any Subsidiary after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified in writing at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. In addition, the Administrative Agent may disclose to any agency or organization that assigns standard identification numbers to loan facilities such basic information describing the facilities provided hereunder as is necessary to assign unique identifiers (and, if requested, supply a copy of this Credit Agreement), it being understood that the Person to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to make available to the public only such Information as such person normally makes available in the course of its business of assigning identification numbers. Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders acknowledges that (a) the Information may include material non-public information concerning the Borrower or a Subsidiary, as the case may be, (b) it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and (c) it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with applicable law, including federal and state securities laws.
provided
                    
11.16 .
Entirety
          This Credit Agreement together with the other Credit Documents and the Fee Letter represent the entire agreement of the parties hereto and thereto, and supersede all prior agreements and understandings, oral or written, if any, including any commitment letters or correspondence relating to the Credit Documents or the transactions contemplated herein and therein.
                    
11.17 .
Binding Effect; Continuing Agreement
                    11.18 .
USA Patriot Act Notice
          Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
Act
                    11.19 .
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
          In connection with all aspects of each transaction contemplated hereby (including in connection with any amendment, waiver or other modification hereof or of any other Credit Document), the Borrower and each Guarantor acknowledges and agrees, and acknowledges its Affiliates' understanding, that: (i) (A) the arranging and other services regarding this Agreement provided by the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers are arm's-length commercial transactions between the Borrower, each Guarantor and their respective Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers, on the other hand, (B) each of the Borrower and the Guarantors has consulted its own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent it has deemed appropriate, and (C) the Borrower and each Guarantor is capable of evaluating, and understands and accepts, the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Credit Documents; (ii) (A) each of the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers is and has been acting solely as a principal and, except as expressly agreed in writing by the relevant parties, has not been, is not, and will not be acting as an advisor, agent or fiduciary for the Borrower, any Guarantor or any of their respective Affiliates, or any other Person and (B) neither the Administrative Agent nor either Lead Arranger has any obligation to the Borrower, the Guarantors or any of their respective Affiliates with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby except those obligations expressly set forth herein and in the other Credit Documents; and (iii) the Administrative Agent and the Lead Arrangers and their respective Affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Borrower, the Guarantors and their respective Affiliates, and neither the Administrative Agent either Lead Arranger has any obligation to disclose any of such interests to the Borrower, any Guarantor or any of their respective Affiliates, it being understood that nothing in the Credit Documents is in any way intended to limit the scope of the engagement of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated or the obligations of Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated pursuant to its engagement by you as financial advisor in connection with the Acquisition, or your rights and remedies in connection therewith.
          Each of the parties hereto has caused a counterpart of this Bridge Credit Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written.
:
BORROWER
:
GUARANTORS
:
LENDERS

     
EXHIBIT 10.3
          
This AMENDMENT TO AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER (this "
Amendment
") is made and entered into as of May 31, 2007, by and among Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation ("
Parent
"), Ace Acquisition Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("
Merger Sub
" and, together with Parent, each a "
Buyer Party
" and collectively, the "
Buyer Parties
"), and AmeriPath Group Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "
Company
").
          
WHEREAS, the Parent, the Merger Sub and the Company are parties to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of April 15, 2007 (the "
Merger Agreement
"), pursuant to which, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions provided therein, Merger Sub will merge with and into the Company with the Company continuing as the surviving corporation (the "
Merger
"); and
          
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 11.2 of the Merger Agreement, the parties hereto desire to amend certain provisions of the Merger Agreement as specified herein;
          
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the mutual agreements and covenants hereinafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company hereby agree to amend the Merger Agreement as follows:
1.
Definitions; References
. Unless otherwise specifically defined herein, each capitalized term used herein but not otherwise defined shall have the meaning assigned to such term in the Merger Agreement. Each reference to "hereof", "herein", "hereby" and "this Agreement" shall from and after the date hereof refer to the Merger Agreement as amended by this Amendment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the date of the Merger Agreement, as amended hereby, shall in all instances remain as April 15, 2007, and references to "the date hereof" and "the date of this Agreement" shall continue to refer to April 15, 2007.
2.
Amendment of the Merger Agreement
. The Merger Agreement shall be deemed amended as follows, without requiring any further action by any Person.
     
2.1. Section 2.2 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended to read in full as follows:
"The closing of the Merger (the "
Closing
") will take place at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP at 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York on the second Business Day following the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions set forth in Sections 7 and 8 (other than those conditions that by their terms are to be satisfied at the Closing, but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of such conditions), or at such other place and on such other date as Parent and the Company may agree in writing (such date of Closing, the "
Closing Date
")."
     
2.2. The second sentence of Section 2.3 is hereby amended to read in full as follows:
"The Merger will become effective at and as of 11:59pm (New York time) on the date that the Certificate of Merger has been duly filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware or such other later time as is agreed upon by the parties and set forth in the Certificate of Merger in accordance with the DGCL (the "
Effective Time
")."
     
2.3. Section 3.2.2 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended to read in full as follows:
"All Options outstanding at the Effective Time, other than Vested Options, shall be converted into options ("
Rollover Options
") to acquire a number of shares of Parent common stock ("
Parent Shares
"). Each Rollover Option shall be exercisable for, and represent the right to acquire, that whole number of Parent Shares (rounded down to the nearest whole number of Parent Shares) equal to the number of Shares of Company Common Stock subject to such Option multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which shall be equal to the Company Common Stock Price Per Share and the denominator of which shall be equal to the closing price of Parent Shares on the Business Day prior to the Effective Time (such fraction being hereinafter referred to as the "
Exchange Ratio
") and the exercise price per option on Parent Shares shall be the amount equal to the exercise price per share subject to such Option divided by the Exchange Ratio (rounded upward to the nearest full cent)."
     
2.4. Section 3.2.3 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended by replacing (i) the words "Replacement Option" with "Rollover Option" and (ii) the words "Replacement Options" with "Rollover Options".
3.
Effect of Agreement
. Except as specifically amended by this Amendment, the Merger Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and is hereby ratified and confirmed.
4.
Miscellaneous
.
     
4.1.
Governing Law
. This Amendment, and any claims in any way arising under or relating to this Amendment, shall be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the domestic substantive laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to any choice or conflict of law provision or rule that would cause the application of the laws of any other jurisdiction.
     
4.2.
Severability
. In the event that any provision hereof would, under applicable Legal Requirement, be invalid or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall (to the extent permitted under applicable Legal Requirement) be construed by modifying or limiting it so as to be valid and enforceable to the maximum extent compatible with, and possible under, applicable Legal Requirement. The provisions hereof are severable, and in the event any provision hereof should be held invalid or unenforceable in any respect, it shall not invalidate, render unenforceable or otherwise affect any other provision hereof.
     
4.3.
Counterparts
. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts (and may be executed by telecopier signatures), each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute but one and the same instrument.
          
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to the Agreement and Plan of Merger to be executed as of the date first written above by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized.

QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED ANNOUNCES PRICING AND RECEIPT OF REQUISITE CONSENTS FOR CASH TENDER OFFER AND CONSENT SOLICITATION FOR THE 10% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES DUE 2013 OF AMERIPATH, INC.
LYNDHURST, N.J., June 5, 2007  Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (NYSE:DGX), the nation's leading provider of diagnostics testing, information and services, announced today the determination of pricing in connection with its cash tender offer and consent solicitation for any and all of the outstanding $350,000,000 principal amount 10% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2013 (the "Notes") (CUSIP Nos. 03071D AC 3 and 03071D AA 7) of AmeriPath, Inc. ("AmeriPath").
The tender offer and the related consent solicitation to amend the indenture pursuant to which the Notes were issued are being made upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Offer to Purchase and Consent Solicitation Statement dated May 21, 2007 (the "Offer to Purchase") and the related Letter of Transmittal and Consent. The tender offer will expire at midnight, New York City time, on Monday, June 18, 2007 (the "Expiration Time") unless extended by Quest Diagnostics.
The total consideration for the Notes was determined as of 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 4, 2007, using the bid-side yield on the 4.625% U.S. Treasury Note due March 31, 2008 (the "Reference Security") as displayed on the Bloomberg Government Pricing Monitor Page PX3 plus 50 basis points, minus accrued and unpaid interest to, but not including, the Early Settlement Date (defined below). The yield on the Reference Security was 5.089% and the tender offer yield was 5.589% . Accordingly, the total consideration for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes validly tendered and not withdrawn at or prior to the Consent Deadline is
$1,088.58 (the "Total Consideration").
The Total Consideration includes a consent payment of $30.00 per $1,000 principal amount of the Notes, which will be payable only in respect of the Notes purchased that were validly tendered and not withdrawn on or prior to 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on June 4, 2007 (the "Consent Deadline"). Holders who tender their Notes after the Consent Deadline and at or prior to the Expiration Time will not be eligible to receive the consent payment, and accordingly will only be eligible to receive an amount equal to the Total Consideration less the consent payment (the "Tender Offer Consideration"). Holders whose Notes are accepted for payment will also be paid accrued and unpaid interest from the most recent interest payment date to, but not including, the applicable Settlement Date. For the purposes of calculating the Total Consideration and the Tender Offer Consideration pursuant to the terms of the tender offer, the Early Settlement Date is June 8, 2007, which is the date that Quest Diagnostics expects to settle the purchase of Notes which have been validly tendered and not withdrawn on or prior to the Consent Deadline.
In addition, Quest Diagnostics announced that approximately $348.0 million of outstanding Notes, or approximately 99.4% of the aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding, had been validly tendered and not withdrawn at or prior to the Consent Deadline. Accordingly, Quest Diagnostics has received the requisite consents to adopt the proposed amendments to the Indenture governing the Notes pursuant to the consent solicitation. The amendments to the Indenture contained in such supplemental indenture become effective upon execution of the supplemental indenture but will not become operative until the date on which all Notes validly tendered prior to the Consent Deadline and not withdrawn at or prior to the Consent Deadline are accepted for purchase on the Early Settlement Date pursuant to the Offer to Purchase.
Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated is acting as Dealer Manager for the tender offer and consent solicitation. The Information Agent and Depositary is Global Bondholder Services Corporation. Persons with questions regarding the tender offer and consent solicitation
should contact Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated at (212) 761-5384 (attn: Tate Forrester). Questions concerning the procedures for tendering Notes or requests for the Offer to Purchase should contact the information agent, Global Bondholder Services Corporation, at (866) 804-2200.
None of Quest Diagnostics, AmeriPath, the Dealer Manager, the Information Agent and the Depositary or the trustee for the notes makes any recommendation as to whether or not the holders of notes should tender their notes pursuant to the tender offer and provide consents to the proposals.
About Quest Diagnostics
Quest Diagnostics is the leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services that patients and doctors need to make better healthcare decisions. The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic testing services through its national network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff. Quest Diagnostics is a pioneer in developing innovative new diagnostic tests and advanced healthcare information technology solutions that help improve patient care. Additional company information is available at www.questdiagnostics.com.
This communication contains certain forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements, which may include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the proposed acquisition, are based on management's current expectations and estimates and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or outcomes to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements. Certain of these risks and uncertainties may include, but are not limited to the risks and uncertainties described in the Quest Diagnostics Incorporated 2006 Form 10-K and subsequent filings.


