FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20090213161732.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
____________________________
 
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report
(
Date of Earliest Event Reported
)
:
February 11, 2009
____________________________
 
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
___________________________
 
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
 
___________________________
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
On February 11, 2009, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company") amended its Amended and Restated By-Laws (the "By-Laws") effective immediately, to add a new Section 2.03 which provides for majority voting in director elections. Previously, the By-Laws were silent with respect to the standard of voting in director elections, so plurality voting, the default standard under Delaware law, applied. Under new Section 2.03, in elections that are not "Contested Elections," directors will be elected by a majority of the votes cast; in Contested Elections, directors will be elected by a plurality of the votes cast. A "Contested Election" is one in which the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected.
 
A copy of the By-Laws is attached as Exhibit 3.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Signature
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
February 13, 2009
 
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
 
 
Section 1.01.
Annual Meetings
. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as properly may come before such meeting shall be held at such place either within or outside the State of Delaware, at such time and date as shall be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors and as set forth in the notice of the meeting.
Section 1.02.
Special Meetings
. Except as otherwise required by law, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Board of Directors. Such special meetings of the stockholders shall be held at such places, within or outside the State of Delaware, as shall be specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof.
Section 1.03.
Notice of Meetings
. The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary shall cause written notice of the date, time and place of each meeting of the stockholders to be given, at least ten but not more than fifty days prior to the meeting, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote. Such notice shall be given either personally or by mail or other means of written communication, addressed to each stockholder at the address of such stockholder appearing on the books of the Corporation at the time such notice is dispatched. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Notice of any meeting of stockholders need not be given to any stockholder who shall sign a waiver of such notice in writing, whether before or after the time of such meeting. Notice of any adjourned meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation need not be given.
Section 1.04.
Business Transacted at Special Meetings of Stockholders
. Business transacted at any special meeting of stockholders shall be limited to the purposes stated in the notice thereof.
Section 1.05.
Quorum
. Except as at the time otherwise required by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the presence at any stockholders meeting, in person or by proxy, of the holders of record of shares of stock (of any class) entitled to vote at the meeting, aggregating a majority of the total number of shares of stock of all classes then issued and outstanding and entitled to vote at the meeting, shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
Section 1.06.
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
(a)      
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
.
          
(1)       Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (i) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (ii) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof or (iii) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Section 1.06 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation and at the time of the annual meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.06.
          
(2)       For any nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (iii) of paragraph (a)(1) of this Section 1.06, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary and any such proposed business (other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors) must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90
th
) day, nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day, prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than seventy (70) days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90
th
) day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and (ii) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-Laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class or series and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are
owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination or proposal between or among such stockholder and such beneficial owner, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing, (iv) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, convertible securities, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and such beneficial owners, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in an underlying class or series of stock of the Corporation, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting power of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner, with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation, or relates to the acquisition or disposition of any shares of stock of the Corporation, (v) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, (vi) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination and (vii) any other information relating to such stockholder and beneficial owner, if any, required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in an election contest pursuant to and in accordance with Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. The foregoing notice requirements of this Section 1.06 shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder with respect to business other than a nomination if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his, her or its intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as the Corporation may reasonably require.
          
(3)       Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 1.06 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is to be increased effective at the annual meeting and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming all of the nominees for Director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least one hundred (100) days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 1.06 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new position created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(b)      
Special Meetings of Stockholders
. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 1.06 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation and at the time of the special meeting, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 1.06. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (a)(2) of this Section 1.06 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120
th
) day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth (90
th
) day prior to such special meeting or the tenth (10
th
) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
(c)      
General
.
          
(1)       Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.06 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.06. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (A) to determine whether the procedures set forth in this Section 1.06 have been complied with and (B) if this Section 1.06 has not been complied with, to declare that the applicable nomination shall be disregarded or that the applicable proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.06, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business or the stockholder otherwise has not complied with Section 1.06, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 1.06, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
          
(2)       For purposes of this Section 1.06, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or other national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
          
(3)       Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1.06, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 1.06; provided however, that any references in these By-Laws to the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder are not intended to and shall not limit any requirements applicable to nominations or proposals as to any other business to be considered pursuant to this Section 1.06 (including paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) and (b) hereof), and compliance with paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) and (b) of this Section 1.06 shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than, as provided in the penultimate sentence of (a)(2), matters brought properly under and in compliance with Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act, as it may be amended from time to time). Nothing in this Section 1.06 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the certificate of incorporation.
Section 2.01.
General Powers
. The property, affairs and business of the Corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the Corporation, whether derived from law or the Certificate of Incorporation, except such powers as are, by statute, by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws, vested solely in the stockholders of the Corporation. No Director need be a stockholder of the Corporation.
Section 2.02.
Number and Term of Office
. The Board of Directors shall consist of such number (but in no event less than three nor more than twelve) of Directors as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board of Directors. Each Director (whenever elected) shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been elected and shall have qualified, or until his or her death, or until he or she shall have resigned in the manner provided in Section 2.09 hereof or shall have been removed in accordance with the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 2.03. . Except as otherwise provided by these By-Laws, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director's election at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if, as of the tenth (10th) day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders of the Corporation, the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a "Contested Election"), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast. For purposes of this Section 2.03 of these By-Laws, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of votes cast "for" a director's election exceeds
Election of Directors
the number of votes cast "against" that director's election (with "abstentions" and "broker nonvotes" not counted as a vote cast either "for" or "against" that director's election).
          
In order for any incumbent director to become a nominee of the Board of Directors for further service on the Board of Directors, such person must submit an irrevocable resignation, provided that such resignation shall be effective only if (i) that person shall not receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, and (ii) the Board of Directors shall accept that resignation in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Directors for such purpose. In the event an incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the Governance Committee, or such other Committee designated by the Board of Directors pursuant to these By-Laws, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision regarding the resignation and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision within one hundred twenty (120) days following certification of the election results. The Committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision each may consider any factors and other information that they consider appropriate and relevant.
          
If the Board of Directors accepts a director's resignation pursuant to this Section 2.03, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to Paragraph 5(b) of the Certificate of Incorporation or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02.
Section 2.04. Annual and Regular Meetings. The annual meeting of the Board of Directors, for the choosing of officers and for the transaction of such other business as may come before the meeting, shall be held in each year as soon as possible after the annual meeting of the stockholders at the place of such annual meeting of the stockholders, and notice of such annual meeting of the Board of Directors shall not be required to be given. The Board of Directors from time to time may provide by resolution for the holding of regular meetings and fix the time and place (which may be within or outside the State of Delaware) thereof. Notice of such regular meetings need not be given; provided, however, that in case the Board of Directors shall fix or change the time or place of regular meetings, notice of such action shall be given personally or by mail, facsimile or similar means of communication promptly to each Director who shall not have been present at the meeting at which such action was taken.
Section 2.05.
Special Meetings; Notice
. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or by the President (or, in the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board and the President, by any Vice President), or by any two Directors, at such time and place (which may be within or outside of the State of Delaware) as may be specified in the respective notices or waivers of notice thereof. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called on two days' notice to each Director, personally or by telephone or facsimile or on four days' notice by mail. Notice of any special meeting need not be given to any Director who shall be present at such meeting, or to any Director who shall waive
notice of such meeting in writing, whether before or after the time of such meeting, and any business may be transacted thereat. No notice need be given of any adjourned meeting.
Section 2.06.
Telephonic Meetings
. Directors may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors, or a meeting of any committee designated by the Board, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this By-Law shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Section 2.07.
Quorum and Vote
. At all meetings of the Board of Directors, the presence of a majority of the total authorized number of Directors under Section 2.02 hereof shall be necessary and sufficient to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. Except when otherwise required by statute, the vote of a majority of the total number of Directors present and acting at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. In the absence of a quorum, a majority of the Directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, until a quorum shall be present.
Section 2.08.
Action Without a Meeting
. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any meeting of a Committee of the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting, if written consents thereto are signed by all members of the Board or Committee and such written consents are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board.
Section 2.09.
Manner of Acting
. The Directors shall act only as a Board, and the individual Directors shall have no power as such, except as permitted by statute.
Section 2.10.
Resignations
. Any Director may resign at any time by delivering a written resignation to the Chairman of the Board, if any, the President, a Vice President, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary. Unless otherwise specified therein, such resignation shall take effect upon delivery.
Section 2.11.
Reliance on Accounts and Reports, etc
. A Director, or a member of any committee designated by the Board of Directors, in the performance of his or her duties, shall be fully protected in relying in good faith on the records of the Corporation and upon such information, opinions, reports or statements presented to the Corporation by any of its officers or employees, or committees of the Board of Directors or by any other person as to matters the Director or member reasonably believes are within such other person's professional or expert competence and who has been selected with reasonable care by or on behalf of the Corporation.
Section 2.12.
Committees
. The Board may establish such committees having such responsibilities and composition as it shall from time to time by resolution determine.
Section 3.01.
Number and Designation
. The officers of the Corporation shall be chosen by the Board of Directors and shall have such titles and duties as shall be determined from time to time by the Board of Directors. All officers of the Corporation shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualify or their earlier resignation or removal. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. The Chairman shall be a member of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.02.
Additional Officers Appointed by the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer
. The Board of Directors may delegate its Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer to appoint and remove such additional officers as the Chairman or the Chief Executive Officer, as the case may be, shall designate in writing, with such authority as shall be set forth in writing, and such appointments shall be reported to the Board of Directors.
Section 3.03.
Election
. The Board of Directors at its first meeting or such subsequent meetings as shall be held prior to its first annual meeting, and thereafter annually at its annual meeting, shall choose the officers of the Corporation. If any officers are not chosen at an annual meeting, such officers may be chosen at any subsequent regular or special meeting.
Section 3.04.
Removal and Vacancies
. Any officer elected or appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors, either with or without cause. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation shall be filled by the Board of Directors.
Section 3.05.
Duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors
. The Chairman of the Board of Directors, if present, shall preside at all stockholders' meetings and all meetings of the Board at which he is present and shall have such other duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors. The Chairman may be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.
Section 3.06.
Duties of the President
. The President shall have direct charge of the business of the Corporation, subject to the general control of the Board of Directors, and may be the Chief Executive Officer and/or the Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation. In the absence of the Chairman of the Board or if no Chairman of the Board has been chosen, the President shall also have the duties of the Chairman of the Board.
Section 3.07.
Duties of the Vice President
. In the event of the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board and the President, the Executive or Senior Vice President, if any, or if absent, any Vice President designated by the Board of Directors, shall perform all the duties of the President, and when so acting, shall have all the powers of, and be subject to all the restrictions upon, the President. Except where by law the signature of the President is required, each of the Vice Presidents shall possess the same power as the President to sign all certificates, contracts, obligations and other instruments of the Corporation. Any Vice President shall perform such other duties and may exercise such other powers as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by these By-Laws or by the Board of Directors or the President. An Executive Vice President may be the Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation.
Section 3.08.
Duties of the Secretary
. The Secretary shall, if present, act as Secretary of, and keep the minutes of, all the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and of any committee of the Board of Directors in one or more books to be kept for that purpose; shall perform such other duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board of Directors; and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of Secretary.
Section 3.09.
Duties of the Treasurer
. The Treasurer shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate records of all receipts and disbursements in the books of the Corporation and shall have the care and custody of all funds and securities of the Corporation. He or she shall disburse the funds of the Corporation as may be ordered by the Board of Directors, shall render to the President and the Board of Directors, whenever they request it, an account of all of his or her transactions as Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board of Directors; and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of Treasurer.
Section 3.10.
Duties of the Controller
. The Controller shall be the chief accounting officer of the Corporation. The Controller shall keep or cause to be kept all books of account and accounting records of the Corporation and shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, adequate and correct accounts of the properties and business transactions of the Corporation. The Controller shall prepare or cause to be prepared appropriate financial statements for the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board of Directors; and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the office of Controller.
Section 3.11.
Duties of the Assistant Secretary
. The Assistant Secretary, if any, shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary, exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Secretary, and shall perform such other duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board of Directors.
Section 3.12.
Duties of the Assistant Controller
. The Assistant Controller, if any, shall, in the absence or disability of the Controller, exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Controller, and shall perform such other duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board of Directors.
Section 3.13.
Duties of the Assistant Treasurer
. The Assistant Treasurer, if any, shall, in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, exercise the powers and perform the duties of the Treasurer, and shall perform such other duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the President or the Board of Directors.
Section 4.01.
General
. Subject to the provisions of Sections 4.02, 4.03 and 4.04 hereof, all deeds, documents, transfers, contracts, and agreements and other instruments requiring execution by the Corporation shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, the President, a Vice President or the Treasurer, or as the Board of Directors may otherwise from time to time authorize by resolution. Any such authorization may be general or confined to specific instances.
Section 4.02.
Corporate Indebtedness
. No loan shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation, and no evidences of indebtedness shall be issued in its name, unless authorized by the Board of Directors. Such authorizations of the Board may be general or confined to specific instances. Loans authorized by the Board of Directors may be effected at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institution, or from any firm, corporation or individual. All bonds, debentures, notes and other obligations or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation issued for such loans as the Board shall authorize shall be made, executed and delivered as the Board of Directors shall authorize. All notes and other obligations or evidences of indebtedness permitted hereunder without authorization of the Board of Directors shall be signed by the President, a Vice President or the Treasurer. When so authorized by the Board of Directors, any part of or all the properties, including contract rights, assets, business or goodwill of the Corporation, whether then owned or thereafter acquired, may be mortgaged, pledged, hypothecated or conveyed or assigned in trust as security for the payment of such bonds, debentures, notes and other obligations or evidences of indebtedness to the Corporation, and of the interest thereon, by instruments executed and delivered in the name of the Corporation.
Section 4.03.
Checks, Drafts, etc
. All checks, drafts, bills of exchange or orders for the payment of money, issued in the name of the Corporation, shall be signed only by the Treasurer or such other person or persons and in such manner as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors, which designation may be general or confined to specific instances; and unless so designated, no person shall have any power or authority thereby to bind the Corporation or to pledge its credit or to render it liable.
Section 4.04.
Deposits
. All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositories as the Board of Directors may select. The Board of Directors may make such special rules and regulations with respect to such bank accounts, not inconsistent with the provisions of these By-Laws, as it may deem expedient. For the purpose of deposit and for the purpose of collection for the account of the Corporation, checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money which are payable to the order of the Corporation shall be endorsed, assigned and delivered by the Treasurer or such other person or persons and in such manner as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Section 4.05.
Dividends
. Dividends upon the stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, if any, may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to law. Such declaration may be continuing or limited to a specific payment or distribution. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of stock, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 4.06.
Fiscal Year
. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the calendar year, unless otherwise fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Section 5.01.
Certificates of Stock
. Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the President or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by such holder in the Corporation.
Section 6.01.
Seal
. The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its incorporation and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware." The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or reproduced or otherwise.
Section 6.02.
Offices
. The Corporation may have offices at such other places both within or outside the State of Delaware as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or as the business of the Corporation may require.
Section 7.01.
Indemnification
.
(a) No director of the Corporation shall have any personal liability to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, provided that this provision shall not eliminate or limit the liability of a director (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit.
(b)       Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director or officer of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action either in an official capacity as a director or officer or in any other capacity while serving as a director or officer, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expenses, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, excise taxes pursuant to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The right to be indemnified conferred in this Section 7.01 shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition; provided, however, that, the payment of such expenses incurred by the director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is to be rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan), in advance of the final disposition of proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking, by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article or otherwise. The Corporation may also provide indemnification to employees and agents of the Corporation with the same scope and effect as the foregoing indemnification of directors and officers.
(c)       The indemnification provided by this Section 7.01 shall not limit or exclude any rights, indemnities or limitations of liability to which any person may be entitled, whether as a matter of law, under the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, by agreement, vote of the stockholders or disinterested directors of the Corporation or otherwise.
(d)       If a claim under paragraph (b) of this Section 7.01 is not paid in full by the Corporation within sixty (60) days after a written claim has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standards of conduct which make it permissible
under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard or conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(e)       The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any such expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
(f)       Any repeal or modification of any of the provisions of this Section 7.01 shall not adversely affect any right or protection hereunder of any director, officer or other person in respect of any proceeding (regardless of when such proceeding is first threatened, commenced or completed) arising out of, or related to, any act or omission occurring prior to the time of such repeal or modification.
Section 8.01.
Amendments
. These By-Laws may only be altered or repealed and new By-Laws adopted by resolution of the Board of Directors or of the Shareholders.


