FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20091113182617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction a.2. below):
Item 8.01 Other Events
On November 12, 2009, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company") priced an underwritten public offering of $500,000,000 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020 and $250,000,000 5.750% Senior Notes due 2040 (the "Offering"). The Company issued a press release announcing the launch of the Offering on November 12, 2009.
The Offering is made pursuant to the Company's existing shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-143867) (the "Registration Statement") and is expected to close on November 17, 2009. The Company will receive net proceeds of approximately $730 million from the Offering, after deducting underwriting discounts but before deducting other expenses of the Offering. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to repurchase any notes tendered under its Tender Offer (defined below) and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases and repayment of other indebtedness.
In connection with the Offering, the Company entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") dated November 12, 2009 with Banc of America Securities LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, RBS Securities Inc. and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, on behalf of themselves and the other underwriters named therein. The Underwriting Agreement has been filed as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Registration Statement.
On November 12, 2009, the Company announced the commencement of a tender offer to purchase any and all of its outstanding 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010 and 7.50% Senior Notes due 2011 (the "Tender Offer").
Copies of the press releases related to the Offering and the launch of the Tender Offer are attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
November 13, 2009
QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
November 12, 2009
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED RBS SECURITIES INC. WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC. CALYON SECURITIES (USA), INC. J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. MITSUBISHI UFJ SECURITIES (USA), INC. U.S. BANCORP INVESTMENTS, INC.
  c/o BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC One Bryant Park New York, New York 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and each of the Guarantors listed on Schedule D hereto (the "Guarantors"), confirm their respective agreements with Banc of America Securities LLC ("Banc of America"), Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("Morgan Stanley"), RBS Securities Inc. ("RBS") and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC ("Wells Fargo Securities") (collectively the "Joint Book-Running Managers") and each of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Underwriters", which term shall also include any Underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 11 hereof), for whom Banc of America, Morgan Stanley, RBS and Wells Fargo Securities are acting as representatives (in such capacity, the "Representatives"), with respect to (i) the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective principal amounts set forth in said Schedule A of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020 and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.750% Senior Notes due 2040 (collectively, the "Notes") and (ii) the issue and sale by the Guarantors and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the senior guarantees (the "Guarantees") of the Company's obligations under the Notes. The Notes and the Guarantees are to be issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of June 27, 2001 (the "Base Indenture") among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York (the
"Trustee"), as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001, among the Company, as issuer, the Initial Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto as guarantors, and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a second supplemental indenture, dated as of November 26, 2001, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a third supplemental indenture, dated as of April 4, 2002, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a fourth supplemental indenture, dated as of March 19, 2003, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a fifth supplemental indenture, dated as of April 16, 2004, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a sixth supplemental indenture, dated as of October 31, 2005, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a seventh supplemental indenture, dated as of November 31, 2005, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a eighth supplemental indenture, dated as of July 31, 2006, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a ninth supplemental indenture, dated as of September 30, 2006, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a tenth supplemental indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by an eleventh supplemental indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a twelfth supplemental indenture, dated as of June 25, 2007, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, and to be further supplemented by a thirteenth supplemental indenture dated November 17, 2009 (the "Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture"; the Base Indenture together with all such supplements, the "Indenture") among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee. The Notes will be issued only in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary") pursuant to a letter of representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Time (as defined in Section 2 hereof) (the "DTC Agreement"), among the Company, the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Depositary.
          The payment of principal of, premium and interest on the Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis, jointly and severally by each Guarantor, pursuant to their "Guarantees". The Notes and the Guarantees attached thereto are herein collectively referred to as the "Securities".
          On November 12, 2009, the Company commenced an offer (the "Tender Offer") to purchase for cash any and all of the Company's outstanding 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010 and 7.50% Senior Notes due 2011 (collectively, the "Outstanding Notes") and entered into a dealer manager agreement, as amended (the "Dealer Manager Agreement") with Banc of America, Morgan Stanley, RBS and Wells Fargo Securities as Joint Lead Dealer Managers in connection with the Tender Offer. The Company intends to use a portion of the net proceeds from the offering of the Securities to pay the consideration, and related costs and expenses, for any Outstanding Notes to be purchased pursuant to the Tender Offer. The closing of the offering of the Securities is not contingent on the consummation of the Tender Offer or the purchase of any Outstanding Notes in connection therewith.
          The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement, including a prospectus, (the file number of which is 333-143867) on Form S-3, relating to securities (the "Shelf Securities"), including the Securities, to be issued from time to time by the Company. The registration statement as amended to the date of this Agreement, including the information (if any) deemed to be part of the registration statement at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430A or Rule 430B under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), is hereinafter referred to as the "Registration Statement", and the related prospectus covering the Shelf Securities dated June 19, 2007 in the form first used to confirm sales of the Securities (or in the form first made available to the Underwriters by the Company to meet requests of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the 1933 Act) is hereinafter referred to as the "Basic Prospectus". The Basic Prospectus, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities in the form first used to confirm sales of the Securities (or in the form first made available to the Underwriters by the Company to meet requests of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the 1933 Act) is hereinafter referred to as the "Prospectus", and the term "preliminary prospectus" means any preliminary form of the Prospectus. For purposes of this Agreement, "free writing prospectus" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, "Time of Sale Prospectus" means the preliminary prospectus identified in Schedule B hereto together with the free writing prospectuses, if any, each identified in Schedule B hereto, and "broadly available road show" means a "bona fide electronic road show" as defined in Rule 433(h)(5) under the 1933 Act that has been made available without restriction to any person. As used herein, the terms "Registration Statement", "Basic Prospectus", "preliminary prospectus", "Time of Sale Prospectus" and "Prospectus" shall include the documents, if any, incorporated by reference therein. The terms "supplement", "amendment", and "amend" as used herein with respect to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or free writing prospectus shall include all documents subsequently filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein.
          All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained", "included", "stated", "described" or "disclosed" in the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or free writing prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or free writing prospectus, as the case may be.
          SECTION 1.     .
Representations and Warranties
          (a)     . The Company and each of the Guarantors, jointly and severally, represent and warrant to each Underwriter as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(b) hereof (unless otherwise specified), and agree with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Company and the Guarantors
          (b)     . Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company or any of the Subsidiaries to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
Officer's Certificates
          SECTION 2.     .
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
          (a)     . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company and the Guarantors agree to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at the prices set forth in Schedule C-1, the aggregate principal amount of Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 11 hereof.
Notes and Guarantees
          (b)     . The Company is advised by you that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of their respective portions of the Securities as soon after this Agreement has become effective as in your judgment is advisable. The Company is further advised by you that the Securities are to be offered to the public upon the terms set forth in the Prospectus.
Public Offering
          (c)     . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Securities shall be made at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives, the Company and the Guarantors at 9:00 A.M. (New York Time) on November 17, 2009 (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 11), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives, the Company and the Guarantors (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called the "Closing Time").
Payment
          Payment shall be made to the Company and the Guarantors by wire transfer of immediately available funds to bank accounts designated by the Company against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Notes and the Guarantees to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representatives, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes and the Guarantees which it has agreed to purchase. Banc of America, Morgan Stanley, RBS and Wells Fargo Securities, individually and not as representative of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Notes and the Guarantees to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
          (d)     . Certificates for the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto), shall be in such denominations and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of the Depositary, pursuant to the DTC Agreement. The certificates for the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) will be made available for examination by the
Denominations; Registration
Representatives in The City of New York not later than 9:00 A.M. (New York Time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time.
          SECTION 3.     . The Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, covenant with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company and the Guarantors
          (a)     . The Company and the Guarantors, as promptly as possible, will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, a signed copy of the Registration Statement (including exhibits thereto and documents incorporated by reference) and will deliver to each Underwriter during the period mentioned in Section 3(e) or 3(f) below, as many copies of the Time of Sale Prospectus, the Prospectus and any amendments and supplements thereto and any documents incorporated therein by reference as such Underwriter may reasonably request.
Delivery of Registration Statement, Time of Sale Prospectus and Prospectus
          (b)     . The Company and the Guarantors will, before amending or supplementing the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Prospectus or the Prospectus, furnish to you a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement and not file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which you reasonably object and file with the Commission within the applicable period specified in Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act any prospectus required to be filed pursuant to such Rule.
Amendments and Supplements
          (c)     . The Company and the Guarantors will furnish to you a copy of each proposed free writing prospectus to be prepared by or on behalf of, used by, or referred to by the Company or any Guarantor and not to use or refer to any proposed free writing prospectus to which you reasonably object.
Free Writing Prospectus
          (d)     . The Company and the Guarantors will not take any action that would result in an Underwriter or the Company or any Guarantor being required to file with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of the Underwriter that the Underwriter otherwise would not have been required to file thereunder.
Free Writing Prospectus (Underwriter)
          (e)     . If the Time of Sale Prospectus is being used to solicit offers to buy the Securities at a time when the Prospectus is not yet available to prospective purchasers and any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Prospectus in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances, not misleading, or if any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which the Time of Sale Prospectus conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement then on file, or if, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or counsel to the Company, it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Prospectus to comply with applicable law, the Company and the Guarantors will forthwith prepare, file with the Commission and furnish, at their own expense, to the Underwriters and to any dealer upon request, either amendments or supplements to the Time of Sale Prospectus so that the statements in the Time of Sale Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances when delivered to a prospective purchaser, be misleading or so that the Time of Sale Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will no longer conflict with the Registration
Amend or Supplement Time of Sale Prospectus
Statement, or so that the Time of Sale Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with applicable law.
          (f)     . If, during such period after the first date of the public offering of the Securities as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or counsel to the Company the Prospectus (or in lieu thereof the notice referred to in Rule 173(a) under the 1933 Act) is required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances when the Prospectus (or in lieu thereof the notice referred to in Rule 173(a) under the 1933 Act) is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading, or if, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or counsel to the Company, it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus to comply with applicable law, the Company and the Guarantors will forthwith prepare, file with the Commission and furnish, at their own expense, to the Underwriters and to the dealers (whose names and addresses you will furnish to the Company) to which Securities may have been sold by you on behalf of the Underwriters and to any other dealers upon request, either amendments or supplements to the Prospectus so that the statements in the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances when the Prospectus (or in lieu thereof the notice referred to in Rule 173(a) under the 1933 Act) is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with applicable law.
Amend or Supplement Prospectus
          (g)     . The Company and the Guarantors will use their reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Notes and the Guarantees for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect as long as required for the sale of the Notes and the Guarantees; , , that (i) the Company and the Guarantors shall in no event be required to continue in effect any such qualification for a period of more than 180 days after the Closing Time, (ii) the Company and the Guarantors will not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction in which they are not so qualified and (iii) the Company will not be required to subject itself to taxation (other than any nominal amount) in any jurisdiction if not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Qualifications
provided
however
          (h)     . The Company and the Guarantors will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to their securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Rule 158
          (i)     . The Company and the Guarantors will use the net proceeds received by them from the sale of the Notes and the Guarantees in the manner specified in the Time of Sale Prospectus and the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds".
Use of Proceeds
          (j)     . Except as otherwise contemplated in the Time of Sale Prospectus and the Prospectus, during the period commencing on the date hereof and ending at the Closing Time, the Company and the Guarantors will not, without the prior written consent of the Underwriters, (i) directly or indirectly, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any
Restriction on Sale of Securities
option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of any debt securities or guarantees of debt securities of the Company or any Guarantor or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for any debt securities or guarantees of debt securities of the Company or any Guarantor or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of any debt securities or guarantees of debt securities of the Company or any Guarantor, whether any such swap or transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of any debt securities or guarantees of debt securities of the Company or any Guarantor or such other securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to the Notes and the Guarantees to be sold hereunder.
          (k)     . The Company and the Guarantors will prepare a final term sheet relating to the offering of the Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Securities or the offering in a form consented to by the Representatives, and to file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) under the 1933 Act following the date the final terms have been established for the offering of the Securities.
Final Term Sheet
          (l)     . The Company, during the period when the Time of Sale Prospectus or the Prospectus is required to be delivered will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Reporting Requirements
          (m)    . The Company and the Guarantors will use all reasonable efforts in cooperation with the Underwriters to permit the Notes and the Guarantees to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company.
DTC Clearance
          SECTION 4.     .
Payment of Expenses
          (a). The Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, will pay all expenses incident to the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, filing and printing of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, the Prospectus, any free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of, used by, or referred to by the Company (including financial statements and any schedules or exhibits) and of each amendment or supplement thereto, including the filing fees payable to the Commission relating to the Securities (within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1), if applicable), and the delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, the DTC Agreement, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Notes and the Guarantees, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates for the Notes and the Guarantees to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's and the Guarantors' counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Notes and the Guarantees under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(g) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees
     Expenses
and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees, (vii) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review by The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (the "FINRA") of the terms of the sale of the Notes and the Guarantees, if any, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities and (ix) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto.
          (b)          . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 10(a)(i), 10(a)(ii) or Section 12 hereof, the Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Termination of Agreement
          SECTION 5.          . The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained in Section 1(a) hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company and the Guarantors of their covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
          (a)          . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
          (b)          . At the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of William J. O'Shaughnessy, Assistant General Counsel of the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto.
Opinion of Assistant General Counsel of the Company
          (c)          . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York and the federal law of the United States and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Representatives. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and the Subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
          (d)          . At the Closing Time, (i) the Prospectus, as it may then be amended or supplemented, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, shall not
Officers' Certificate
contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (ii) there shall not have been, since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Time of Sale Prospectus, any material adverse change in the business, financial condition, operations, cash flow or business prospects of the Company and of the Subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business; (iii) the Company and the Guarantors shall have complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Time; and (iv) the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors in Section 1(a) shall be accurate and true and correct as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Time. The Representatives shall have received a certificate of Robert A. Hagemann, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Robert O'Keef, Vice President and Treasurer of the Company, dated as of Closing Time, to such effect.
          (e)          . The Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act within the applicable time period prescribed for such filing by the rules and regulations under the 1933 Act; the final term sheet substantially in the form of Schedule C-2 hereto, and any material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act, shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings by Rule 433; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceeding for that purpose shall have been initiated or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened by the Commission and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the 1933 Act shall have been received; no stop order suspending or preventing the use of the Prospectus or any issuer free writing prospectus shall have been initiated or threatened by the Commission; and all requests for additional information on the part of the Commission shall have been complied with to the Representatives' reasonable satisfaction.
Prospectus, Final Term Sheet and Free Writing Prospectus
          (f)          . At each of the time of the execution of this Agreement and the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP letters with respect to the Company dated the date hereof or the Closing Time, as the case may be, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters and to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to Underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information of the Company contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Prospectus and the Prospectus; that the letter delivered at the Closing Time shall use a "cut-off date" no more than three business days prior to the Closing Time.
Comfort Letters and Consent
provided
          (g)          . At Closing Time, the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) shall be rated at investment grade by Moody's, S&P and Fitch and the Company and the Guarantors shall have delivered to the Representatives a letter dated the Closing Time, from each such rating agency, or other evidence satisfactory to the Representatives, confirming that the Notes and the Guarantees have such ratings; and since the
Maintenance of Rating
date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in, or withdrawal of, the rating assigned to the Notes and the Guarantees or any of the Company's and the Guarantors' other debt securities or debt instruments by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, and no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review its rating of the Notes and the Guarantees or any of the Company's and the Guarantors' other debt securities or debt instruments.
          (h)          . At or prior to the Closing Time, the Company and the Trustee shall have executed and delivered the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture.
Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture
          (i)          . At Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require (including any consents under any agreements to which the Company is a party) for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes and the Guarantees as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company and the Guarantors in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes and the Guarantees as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents
          (j)          . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement
          SECTION 6.          . Each Underwriter severally covenants with the Company and the Guarantors not to take any action that would result in the Company being required to file with the Commission under Rule 433(d) a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of such Underwriter that otherwise would not be required to be filed by the Company thereunder, but for the action of the Underwriter.
Covenants of the Underwriters
          SECTION 7.          .
Indemnification
          (a)          . The Company and each of the Guarantors, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act to the extent and in the manner set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below, as follows:
Indemnification of the Underwriters
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company or the Guarantors by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
provided
however
          (b)     . Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantors, their directors and officers, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any Guarantor within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any issuer free writing prospectus or the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company and the Guarantors by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of Company and Guarantors, Directors and Officers
          (c)      . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the
Actions against Parties; Notification
case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(a) above, counsel to such indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representatives, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(b) above, counsel to such indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 7 or Section 8 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
provided
however
          (d)          . If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 7(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 45 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party for the indemnified party's reasonable fees and expenses of counsel in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (A) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (B) provides written notice to the indemnified party disputing the unpaid balance in good faith and substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement, subject to provision of notice by the indemnified party in accordance with (i) and (ii) above.
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
          SECTION 8.          . If the indemnification provided for in Section 7 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Notes and the Guarantees pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in
Contribution
clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
          The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Notes and the Guarantees pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes and the Guarantees pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the Guarantors and the total discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial offering prices of the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) as set forth on such cover of the Prospectus.
          The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Guarantors, or by the Underwriters, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
          The Company, the Guarantors and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 8. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 8 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) sold by it exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
          For purposes of this Section 8, (a) each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and (b) each director of the Company and each Guarantor, and each person, if any, who controls the Company and each Guarantor, as the case may be, within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall
have the same rights to contribution as the Company and each Guarantor. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8 are several in proportion to the principal amount of Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto and not joint.
          SECTION 9.          . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or controlling person, or by or on behalf of the Company or any Guarantor, and shall survive delivery of the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) to the Underwriters.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
          SECTION 10.        .
Termination of Agreement
          (a)          . The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to the Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Time of Sale Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and the Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there shall have occurred a downgrading in the rating of the Company's debt securities by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or if such rating organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its rating of the Company's debt securities or (iii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable to market the Notes and the Guarantees or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Notes and the Guarantees, or (iv) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the New York Stock Exchange or on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the FINRA or any other governmental authority, or (v) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
Termination; General
          (b)          . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
          SECTION 11.       . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at Closing Time to purchase the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), the Representatives shall have the right, but not the obligation, within 24 hours
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other Underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representatives shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
          No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriters from liability in respect of its default.
          In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement, either (i) the Representatives or (ii) the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement, in the Time of Sale Prospectus, in the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "Underwriters" includes any person substituted for an Underwriters under this Section 11.
          SECTION 12.   . If the Company and the Guarantors shall fail at Closing Time to sell the number of Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) that they are obligated to sell hereunder, then this Agreement shall terminate without any liability on the part of any non-defaulting party; , , that the provisions of Sections 1, 4, 7, 8 and 9 shall remain in full force and effect. No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve the Company or the Guarantors from liability, if any, in respect of such default.
Default by the Company and the Guarantors
provided
however
          SECTION 13.   . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to Banc of America Securities LLC, One Bryant Park, New York, New York 10036, attention of High Grade Debt Capital Markets Transaction Management/Legal, with a copy to Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, One New York Plaza, New York, New York 10004, attention of Stuart H. Gelfond, Esq.; and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at Three Giralda Farms, Madison, New Jersey 07940, attention of Assistant General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, with a copy to Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, attention of Stephen T. Giove, Esq.
Notices
          SECTION 14.           . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 7 and 8 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Notes and Guarantees from any Underwriters shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
Parties
          SECTION 15.          . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF. SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY HEREIN REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
Governing Law and Time
          SECTION 16.          . The Article, Section and subsection headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
          SECTION 17.          . The invalidity or unenforceability of any section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability
          SECTION 18.            Each of the Company and the Guarantors acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company and the Guarantors are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, Guarantors or their respective affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company and the Guarantors with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company and the Guarantors on other matters) or any other obligation to the Company and the Guarantors except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the Guarantors and that the several Underwriters have no
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
.
obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any fiduciary or advisory relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company and the Guarantors have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent they deemed appropriate. The Company and the Guarantors hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company and the Guarantors may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of fiduciary duty.
          SECTION 19.          This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General Provisions
.
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company and the Guarantors a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement among the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
1. The purchase price for the 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020 is 97.841%.
2. The purchase price for the 5.750% Senior Notes due 2040 is 96.353%.
Term sheet
To prospectus dated June 19, 2007 and preliminary prospectus supplement dated November 12, 2009
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Banc of America Securities LLC toll free at 1-800-294-1322; Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll free at 1-866-718-1649; RBS Securities Inc. toll free at 1-866-884-2071; and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll free at 1-800-326-5897.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus if you request it by calling Banc of America Securities LLC toll free at 1-800-294-1322; Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll free at 1-866-718-1649; RBS Securities Inc. toll free at 1-866-884-2071; and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll free at 1-800-326-5897.
Any disclaimers or other notices that may appear below are not applicable to this communication and should be disregarded. Such disclaimers or other notices were automatically generated as a result of this communication being sent via Bloomberg or another email system.

Exhibit 99.1
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated Announces Proposed Senior Notes Offering
MADISON, N.J.
, November 12, 2009  Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company") (NYSE: DGX), the world's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, announced today that it intends to offer $750,000,000 in aggregate principal amount in two series of senior notes in a public offering made under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, subject to market and other conditions. The notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior, unsecured basis by certain of the Company's domestic, wholly owned subsidiaries.
The issuance of the notes will be subject to customary closing conditions. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to repurchase any notes tendered under its concurrent tender offer, and for general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases and repayment of other indebtedness. BofA Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley, RBS and Wells Fargo Securities will be joint book-running managers for the debt offering. When available, copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus for the offering can be obtained from BofA Merrill Lynch toll-free at (800) 294-1322, Morgan Stanley toll-free at (866) 718-1649, RBS toll-free at (866) 884-2071 or Wells Fargo Securities toll-free at (800) 326-5897.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase any of these securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. This offering may be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus.
About Quest Diagnostics
Quest Diagnostics is the world's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services that patients and doctors need to make better healthcare decisions. The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic testing services through its network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff. Quest Diagnostics is a pioneer in developing innovative diagnostic tests and advanced healthcare information technology solutions that help improve patient care.
The statements in this press release which are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date that they are made and which reflect management's current estimates, projections, expectations or beliefs and which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and outcomes to be materially different. Risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the company include, but are not limited to, adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions, the competitive environment, changes in government regulations, changing relationships with customers, payers, suppliers and strategic partners and other factors discussed in "Business," "Risk Factors," "Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results," "Legal Proceedings," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in the Company's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other items throughout the Form 10-K and the Company's 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.

Exhibit 99.2
Quest Diagnostics Commences Cash Tender Offer for Any and All of Certain of its Outstanding Notes
MADISON, N.J.
, November 12, 2009 -- Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company") (NYSE: DGX), the world's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, announced today that it has commenced a cash tender offer (the "Tender Offer") to purchase any and all of its 5.125% Senior Notes due 2010 (the "2010 Notes") and any and all of its 7.50% Senior Notes due 2011 (the "2011 Notes" and, together with the 2010 Notes, the "Notes"). Additional terms and conditions of the Tender Offer are set forth in the Offer to Purchase dated November 12, 2009 (the "Offer to Purchase") and the related Letter of Transmittal (the "Letter of Transmittal"). The offer will expire at 5:00 p.m., New York City Time, on November 19, 2009, unless extended.
The consideration for each $1,000 principal amount of Notes tendered and accepted for payment pursuant to the Tender Offer will be determined at 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on November 17, 2009 in the manner described in the Offer to Purchase. The purchase price, which will be determined by reference to a fixed spread specified for each series of Notes over the yield based on the bid-side price of the applicable U.S. Treasury Security as indicated below, will be announced by news release promptly after its determination.
In addition, the Company will pay accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the applicable settlement date on all validly tendered Notes accepted for purchase in the Tender Offer. The settlement date for the Tender Offer is expected to be the first business day following the expiration date and currently is expected to be November 20, 2009. The Company intends to use a portion of the net proceeds from its senior notes offering to fund the Tender Offer. The Tender Offer remains subject to meeting certain conditions, and the Company reserves the right to extend, terminate, withdraw or amend the Tender Offer at any time subject to applicable law.
Quest Diagnostics has retained BofA Merrill Lynch as Global Coordinator & Joint Lead Dealer Manager and Morgan Stanley, RBS and Wells Fargo Securities as Joint Lead Dealer Managers. Global Bondholder Services Corporation has been retained to serve as the depositary and to serve as the information agent for the tender offer.
For additional information regarding the terms of the Tender Offer, please contact: BofA Merrill Lynch at (888) 292-0070 (toll free) or (980) 388-4603 (collect).
This news release is not an offer to purchase or a solicitation of an offer to sell any Notes. The Tender Offer is being made only pursuant to the terms of the Offer to Purchase, and the related Letter of Transmittal.
Requests for documents and questions regarding the tendering of Notes may be directed to Global Bondholder Services Corporation, at (866) 470-3800 (toll free).
About Quest Diagnostics
Quest Diagnostics is the world's leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services that patients and doctors need to make better healthcare decisions. The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic testing services through its network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff. Quest Diagnostics is a pioneer in developing innovative diagnostic tests and advanced healthcare information technology solutions that help improve patient care. Additional company information is available at
www.QuestDiagnostics.com
.
The statements in this press release which are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date that they are made and which reflect management's current estimates, projections, expectations or beliefs and which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and outcomes to be materially different. Risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the company include, but are not limited to, adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions, the competitive environment, changes in government regulations, changing relationships with customers, payers, suppliers and strategic partners and other factors discussed in "Business," "Risk Factors," "Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results," "Legal Proceedings," "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in the Company's 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and "Risk Factors" in the Company's 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other items throughout the Form 10-K and the Company's 2009 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.


