FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20091118172922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
FORM 8-K
____________________________
CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Date of Report
(
Date of Earliest Event Reported
)
: November 17, 2009
____________________________
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter)
___________________________
 
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of Incorporation)
 
 
(973) 520-2700
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
____________________________
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction a.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On November 17, 2009, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company") issued $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes") and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.750% Senior Notes due 2040 (the "2040 Notes", and together with the 2020 Notes, the "Notes").
 
The Company will pay interest on the Notes on January 30 and July 30 of each year, beginning on July 30, 2010. The 2020 Notes will mature on January 30, 2020. The 2040 Notes will mature on January 30, 2040. The Notes are senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally with the Company's other and future senior unsecured obligations. Each guarantee will be a senior unsecured obligation of the guarantor issuing such guarantee and will rank equally with other existing and future senior unsecured obligations of such guarantor. The Notes will not be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.
The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of June 27, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the first through twelfth supplemental indentures of various dates, among the Company, the Trustee, and the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and as further supplemented by a thirteenth supplemental indenture dated November 17, 2009 (collectively, the "Indenture") among the Company, the Trustee and the subsidiary guarantors party thereto. The Indenture contains covenants that, among other things, will limit the ability of the Company and the guarantors to create certain liens; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; consolidate; merge or transfer all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; incur indebtedness of non-guarantor subsidiaries; and make restricted payments to certain non-guarantor subsidiaries. The Indenture provides for customary events of default. Upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the Indenture), the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. In addition, the Company may redeem the Notes at any time at the redemption prices described in the Notes.
The foregoing description of the Indenture does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the applicable agreements, each of which is included as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
A copy of the opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel to the Company, relating to the legality of the Notes is filed as Exhibit 5.1 to this Report.
 
 
2
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
Signature
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.14
EXECUTION VERSION
                    SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of November 17, 2009 among QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), and the subsidiary guarantors party hereto.
                    WHEREAS, the Company, the Trustee and the Initial Subsidiary Guarantors executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 ( the "First Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 26, 2001 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 4, 2002 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 19, 2003 (the "Fourth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 16, 2004 (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 31, 2005 (the "Sixth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 21, 2005 (the "Seventh Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 31, 2006 (the "Eighth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by a Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 30, 2006 (the "Ninth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007 (the "Tenth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007 (the "Eleventh Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 25, 2007 (the "Twelfth Supplemental Indenture"), and as further supplemented by this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture (the "Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture" and, collectively, the "Indenture"), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of Securities to be issued in one or mores series as provided in the Indenture;
                    WHEREAS, the issuance and sale of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of a new series of the Company's 4.750% Senior Notes due January 30, 2020 guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors (the "Notes due 2020") and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of a new series of the Company's 5.750% Senior Notes due January 30, 2040 guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors (the "Notes due 2040", and together with the Notes due 2020, the "Notes") have been authorized by resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors;
                    WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue and sell $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Notes on the date hereof;
                    WHEREAS, Sections 901(7) and 901(9) of the Indenture provide that without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of any series issued under the Indenture, the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into one or more indentures supplemental to the Indenture to (a) establish the form or terms
of Securities of any series and any related coupons as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, including the provisions and procedures relating to Securities convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company) and (b) cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Base Indenture;
                    WHEREAS, the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors desire to (a) establish the form and terms of the Notes and (b) provide whether certain Articles of the Indenture will apply to all series of Securities, including the Notes (except as may be provided in a Future Supplemental Indenture or Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 301 of the Base Indenture (a "Future Officers' Certificate"));
                    WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture a valid supplement to the Indenture according to its terms and the terms of the Indenture have been done;
                    NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises stated herein and the purchase of the Notes by the Holders thereof, the parties hereto herby enter into this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Notes, as follows:
                    SECTION 1.1. .
Certain Terms Defined in the Indenture
                    All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture, as amended hereby, other than such terms as are defined in the Second Supplemental Indenture.
                    SECTION 1.2. .
Definitions
                    Except as may be provided in a Future Supplemental Indenture, for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes, Section 101 of the Indenture shall be amended by adding the following new definitions:
          "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company or other Voting Stock into which the Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and the assets of its subsidiaries, taken as a
whole, to one or more "persons" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) (other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
          "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
          "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
          "Existing Receivables Credit Facility" means the receivables-backed financing transaction pursuant to (1) the Third Amended and Restated Receivables Sales Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2008 between the Company and each of its direct and indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries that is a seller thereunder, and Quest Diagnostics Receivables Inc., as the buyer, (2) the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of June 11, 2008, as amended, among Quest Diagnostics Receivables Inc., as borrower, the Company, as initial servicer, each of the lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi, as administrative agent, and (3) the various related ancillary documents.
          "Fitch" means Fitch Ratings.
          "Global Notes" means, individually and collectively, each of Global Notes, substantially in the form of Exhibits A and B.
          "Global Notes Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 204 to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
          "Initial Subsidiary Guarantors" means each of American Medical Laboratories Incorporated, AmeriPath Consolidated Labs, Inc., AmeriPath Florida, LLC, AmeriPath Group Holdings, Inc., AmeriPath Holdings, Inc., AmeriPath Hospital Services Florida, LLC, AmeriPath Indiana, LLC, AmeriPath Intermediate Holdings, Inc., AmeriPath Kentucky, Inc., AmeriPath Marketing USA, Inc., AmeriPath Michigan, Inc., AmeriPath Mississippi, Inc., AmeriPath New York, LLC, AmeriPath North Carolina, Inc., AmeriPath Ohio, Inc., AmeriPath Pennsylvania,
LLC, AmeriPath Philadelphia, Inc., AmeriPath SC, Inc., AmeriPath Texas, LP, AmeriPath Wisconsin, LLC, AmeriPath Youngstown Labs, Inc., AmeriPath, Inc., AmeriPath, LLC, Anatomic Pathology Services, Inc., API No. 2, LLC, APL Properties Limited Liability Company, Arizona Pathology Group, Inc., Central Plains Holdings, Inc., Dermatopathology Services, Inc., Diagnostic Pathology Management Services, LLC, Diagnostic Reference Services Inc., DPD Holdings, Inc., Enterix Inc., ExamOne World Wide of NJ, Inc., ExamOne World Wide, Inc., Focus Diagnostics, Inc., Focus Technologies Holding Company, HemoCue, Inc., Kailash B. Sharma, M.D., Inc., LabOne of Ohio, Inc., LabOne, Inc., MedPlus, Inc., MetWest Inc., Nichols Institute Diagnostics, Ocmulgee Medical Pathology Association, Inc., O'Quinn Medical Pathology Association, LLC, Osborn Group Inc., Pathology Building Partnership, PCA of Denver, Inc., PCA of Nashville, Inc., Peter G. Klacsmann, M.D., Inc., Quest Diagnostics Clinical Laboratories, Inc., Quest Diagnostics Finance Incorporated, Quest Diagnostics Holdings Incorporated, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (MD), Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (MI), Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (NV), Quest Diagnostics Investments Incorporated, Quest Diagnostics LLC (CT), Quest Diagnostics LLC (IL), Quest Diagnostics LLC (MA), Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute (f/k/a Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (CA)), Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute, Inc., Quest Diagnostics of Pennsylvania Inc., Regional Pathology Consultants, LLC, Rocky Mountain Pathology, LLC, Sharon G. Daspit, M.D., Inc., Shoals Pathology Associates, Inc., Specialty Laboratories, Inc., Strigen, Inc., TID Acquisition Corp. and Unilab Corporation.
          "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
          "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
          "Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the control of the Company, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization'' within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be.
          "Rating Event" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by at least two of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the intention of the Company to effect a Change of Control; provided, however, that a Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating will not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus will not be deemed a Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the trustee in writing at its request or the request of the Company that the reduction was the result, in
whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the Rating Event.).
          "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
          "Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
                    SECTION 2.1. .
Form and Dating
                    The Notes due 2020, the applicable Subsidiary Guarantees and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto. The Notes due 2040, the applicable Subsidiary Guarantees and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto. The Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Controller or the Treasurer, and the Secretary, under its corporate seal reproduced thereon. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rules or usage. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes and any beneficial interest in the Notes shall be in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
                    The terms and notations contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
                    SECTION 2.2. .
Terms of the Notes
                    The following terms relating to the Notes are hereby established:
                    SECTION 2.3 .
Application of the Terms of the Second Supplemental Indenture
                    SECTION 2.4. .
Application of the Article of the Indenture Regarding Guarantees
                    Except as may be provided in a Future Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of Article Sixteen of the Indenture, as amended, shall apply to the Notes.
                    SECTION 2.5. .
Application of the Article of the Indenture Regarding Redemption of Securities
                    Except as may be provided in a Future Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of Article Eleven of the Indenture, as amended, shall apply to the Notes.
                    SECTION 2.6. .
Application of the Article of the Indenture Relating to a Sinking Fund
                    Except as may be provided in a Future Supplemental Indenture, none of the Notes shall be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund, and the provisions of the Indenture relating to a sinking fund, including Article Twelve and Subsection (3) of Section 501 of the Indenture, shall not apply to any of the Notes.
                    SECTION 2.7. .
Additional Events of Default
                    Except as may be provided by a Future Supplemental Indenture, for the benefit of the holders of the Notes, Section 501(7)(A) of the Indenture shall be amended by deleting the words "$100 million" in the second line thereof and, in their place, adding the words "$200 million;" and Section 501(7)(B) of the Indenture shall be amended by deleting the words "$100 million" in the sixth line thereof and, in their place, adding the words "$200 million".
                    SECTION 2.8. .
Application of the Article of the Indenture Regarding Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
                    Except as may be provided by a Future Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of Article Fourteen of the Indenture, including the provisions relating to defeasance and covenant defeasance of the Securities under Sections 1402 and 1403, respectively, of the Indenture shall apply to the Notes.
                    SECTION 2.9. .
Application of the Article of the Indenture Regarding Repayment at the Option of Holders
                    Except as may be provided by a Future Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of Article Thirteen of the Indenture shall not apply to the Notes.
                    SECTION 2.10. .
Limitations on Subsidiary Indebtedness and Preferred Stock
                    Except as may be provided by a Future Supplemental Indenture, for the benefit of the holders of the Notes, Section 1011 of the Indenture shall be amended by adding a new subsection 1011(k) as follows:
                    SECTION 2.11. .
Repurchase of Notes Upon a Change of Control
                    Except as may be provided by a Future Supplemental Indenture, for the benefit of the holders of the Notes, a new Section 315 shall be added to the Indenture as follows:
                    Section 315 Repurchase of Notes Upon a Change of Control.
                    (c) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
                    SECTION 3.1. .
Governing Law
                    This Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws. This Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of this Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
                    SECTION 3.2. .
Separability
                    In case any provision in this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture or in any Securities, including the Notes, shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
                    SECTION 3.3. .
Counterparts
                    This Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same Supplemental Indenture.
                    SECTION 3.4. .
Ratification
                    The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture and this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed. The Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture and this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. All provisions included in this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture supersede any conflicting provisions included in the Base Indenture unless not permitted by law. The Trustee accepts the trusts created by the Indenture, as supplemented by this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture, and agrees to perform the
same upon the terms and conditions of the Indenture, as supplemented by this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture.
                    SECTION 3.5. .
Effectiveness
                    The provisions of this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture shall become effective as of the date hereof.
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
EXHIBIT A
                    [
The following legends apply only if the Note is a Global Note:
                    THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
                    UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IN EXCHANGE FOR THIS CERTIFICATE IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
                    Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $500,000,000 on January 30, 2020 (the "Stated Maturity") (except to the extent redeemed or repaid prior to the Stated Maturity) and to pay interest thereon from November 17, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for semi-annually at the rate of 4.750% per annum, on January 30 and July 30, commencing with July 30, 2010, on the Stated Maturity and on any Redemption Date (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
                    . The interest so payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date, will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on January 15 or July 15 (whether or not a Business Day, as defined in the Indenture), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date (the "Regular Record Date"). Any such interest not punctually paid or duly provided for ("Defaulted Interest") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such Defaulted Interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date (the "Special Record Date") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than ten days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of Interest
                    . Payment of interest on this Note will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , that each installment of interest and payment of principal on this Notes may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States. Payment of the principal of this Note on the Stated Maturity will be made against presentation of this Note at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the
Place of Payment
provided, however
United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
                    . In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Stated Maturity shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of the Indenture or this Note), payment of principal or interest, if any, need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, or at Stated Maturity; that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
Time of Payment
provided
                    . The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Note and by acceptance hereof each Holder of this Note agrees to be subject to and bound by the terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
Legends
                    . This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "Securities") of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to a series of which this Note is a part), to which Base Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, including the supplemental indenture dated November 17, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of a duly authorized series of Securities designated as "4.750% Senior Notes due 2020" (collectively, the "Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $500,000,000.
General
                    . The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of Notes of this series, issue additional Notes (the "Additional Notes") of this series having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes of this series. Any Additional Notes of this series and the Notes of this series will constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the Notes of this series shall include the Additional Notes unless the context otherwise requires.
Further Issuance
                    [
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note:
                    . This Note is a Global Note representing $500,000,000 of the Notes. This Note is a "book entry" Note and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository "), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Note will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Note is registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal and interest on this Note by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Depository or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the
Book-Entry
final payment on this Note will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Note at its Corporate Trust Office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.]
                    . This Note is entitled to the benefits of the Subsidiary Guarantees by each of the Subsidiary Guarantors of the due and punctual payment and performance of the Guarantor Obligations made in favor of the Trustee for the benefit of the Holder of this Note. Reference is hereby made to Article Sixteen of the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations under the Guarantees of each of the Guarantors.
Guarantees
                    . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
                    . The Notes of this series are not subject to any sinking fund. The Notes of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price, calculated pursuant to the Indenture, together with accrued interest thereon, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the Regular Record Date that is prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest on the relevant Interest Payment Date). In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Notes of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee by such methods, as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem fair and appropriate. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of this Note.
Maturity
                    . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes on the terms set forth in the Indenture.
Redemption upon a Change of Control Triggering Event
                    . The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Note and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
                    . The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the
Modification and Waivers; Obligations of the Company Absolute
Indenture. Furthermore, provisions in the Indenture permit the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of individual series to waive on behalf of all of the Holders of Securities of such individual series certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Note and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
                    No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
                    . As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Note of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceedings as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Note on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
Limitation on Suits
provided
however
                    . The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Authorized Denominations
                    . As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
Registration of Transfer or Exchange
                    As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
                    [
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note:
                    . If the Depository is at any time unwilling, unable or ineligible to continue as depository and a successor depository is not appointed by the
This Note is a Global Security
Company within 90 days or an Event of Default under the Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the Company will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange for each Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine not to have Securities represented by a Global Security and, in such event, will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange in whole for the Global Security representing such Security. In any such instance, an owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Security will be entitled to physical delivery in certificated form of Securities equal in principal amount to such beneficial interest and to have such Securities registered in its name. Securities so issued in certificated form will be issued in denominations of $2,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000 and will be issued in registered form only, without coupons.
                    No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
                    Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.]
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    .
Governing Law
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
                    Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated: November 17, 2009
                    This is one of the Notes of the series designated and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture, as such is supplemented by the within-mentioned Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture.
                    FOR VALUE RECEIVED, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors (as such term is defined in the Indenture, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture and the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture), hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to the Holder of the Note upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed (the "Note") and to the Trustee on behalf of the Holder, the prompt payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest (including, in case of default, interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on overdue interest and including any additional interest required to be paid according to the terms of the Notes) on the Note, when due (whether at Stated Maturity, upon Redemption, upon acceleration, upon tender for repayment at the option of the Company), according to the terms hereof and the terms of the Indenture (the "Guarantor Obligations"). This Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection and is a continuing guarantee and shall apply to all Guarantor Obligations whenever arising.
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder are absolute and unconditional irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Indenture or this Note, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors agrees that this Guarantee may be enforced by the Holder of this Note without the necessity at any time of proceeding against the Company or any other Person (including a co-guarantor) or to pursue any other remedy or enforce any other right. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Holder of this Note from suing on this Note or the Indenture or from exercising any other rights available under this Note and the Indenture, and the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights and shall not constitute a discharge of any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder and under the Indenture; it being the purpose and the intent of each Subsidiary Guarantor that its obligations under this Note and under the Indenture shall be absolute, independent and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Neither any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Company or by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. Each Subsidiary Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Guarantor Obligations or acceptance of this Guarantee. The Guarantor Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guarantee.
Obligations Unconditional and Absolute
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of the Note against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by such Subsidiary Guarantor on account of the Note or the Indenture; , that such
Subrogation
provided, however
Subsidiary Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of (or premium, if any, on) and interest on all Notes of this series shall have been indefeasibly paid in full.
                    . Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that (a) the time or place of payment of the Guarantor Obligations may be changed or extended, in whole or in part, to a time certain or otherwise, and may be renewed or accelerated, in whole or in part; (b) the Company and any other party liable for payment under the Indenture or under the Note may be granted indulgences generally; (c) any of the provisions of this Note or the Indenture may be modified, amended or waived; and (d) any party (including any Subsidiary Guarantor) liable for the payment under this Note or under the Indenture may be granted indulgences or be released; all without notice to or further assent by such Subsidiary Guarantor, which shall remain bound thereon, notwithstanding any such exchange, compromise, surrender, extension, renewal, acceleration, modification, indulgence or release.
Modifications
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby waives to the fullest extent permitted by law: (a) notice of acceptance of this Guarantee by the Holder of this Note; (b) presentment and demand for payment or performance of any of the Guarantor Obligations; (c) protest and notice of dishonor or default with respect to the Guarantor Obligations; (d) all other notices to which such Subsidiary Guarantor might otherwise be entitled.
Waiver of Rights
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and under Article Sixteen shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Guarantor Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder of the Notes of this series, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise.
Reinstatement
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that as between each such Subsidiary Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holder and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extant under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
Remedies
                    . The Subsidiary Guarantors, in connection with payments made hereunder, shall have contribution rights against the other Subsidiary Guarantors as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and no Subsidiary Guarantor shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Guarantor Obligations have been paid in full.
Rights of Contribution
                    . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in the Indenture, to the extent the obligations of any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers) then the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount that
Limitation of Guaranty
is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state or otherwise and including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby covenants that its Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of its obligations contained in the Note, this Subsidiary Guarantee and pursuant to the Indenture;, , that if (a) an Subsidiary Guarantor does not guarantee any Indebtedness of the Company the amount of which, when added together with any other outstanding Indebtedness of the Company guaranteed by its Subsidiaries that are not Subsidiary Guarantors, would exceed $50 million in the aggregate, excluding the Notes of this series, and all outstanding Indebtedness of such Subsidiary Guarantor would have been permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 1011 of the Indenture measured at the time of the release and discharge as described in this paragraph, (b) the Notes of this series are defeased and discharged pursuant to Article Fourteen of the Indenture, or (c) all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor or all of the capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor is sold (including by issuance, merger, consolidation or otherwise) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, then in each case of (a), (b) or (c) above, such Subsidiary Guarantor or the corporation acquiring such assets (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor) shall be automatically and without any further action on the part of any party to the Indenture, and upon notice to the Trustee, be fully released and discharged from all its liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Indenture and this Subsidiary Guarantee of the Note, and promptly upon the request of the Company and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall execute such documents and take such other action as is reasonably requested by the Company to evidence the release and discharge of such Guarantor from all such liabilities and obligations and shall, if applicable, certify to the Company that such Subsidiary Guarantor has no liabilities or obligations resulting from a demand on such Subsidiary Guarantor's Guarantee.
Release of Guarantors
provided
however
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    .
Governing Law
This Subsidiary Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
                    Subject to the next following paragraph, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened precedent to the creation and issuance of this Subsidiary Guarantee and to constitute the same valid obligation of each Subsidiary Guarantor have been done and performed and have happened in due compliance with all applicable laws.
                    This Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Note upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed has been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to in this Note.
Dated: November 17, 2009
EXHIBIT B
                    [
The following legends apply only if the Note is a Global Note:
                    THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
                    UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IN EXCHANGE FOR THIS CERTIFICATE IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
CUSIP: 74834L AQ3
                    Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $250,000,000 on January 30, 2040 (the "Stated Maturity") (except to the extent redeemed or repaid prior to the Stated Maturity) and to pay interest thereon from November 17, 2009 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for semi-annually at the rate of 5.750% per annum, on January 30 and July 30, commencing with July 30, 2010, on the Stated Maturity and on any Redemption Date (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
                    . The interest so payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date, will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on January 15 or July 15 (whether or not a Business Day, as defined in the Indenture), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date (the "Regular Record Date"). Any such interest not punctually paid or duly provided for ("Defaulted Interest") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such Defaulted Interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date (the "Special Record Date") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than ten days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of Interest
                    . Payment of interest on this Note will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , that each installment of interest and payment of principal on this Notes may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States. Payment of the principal of this Note on the Stated Maturity will be made against presentation of this Note at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Place of Payment
provided, however
                    . In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Stated Maturity shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of the Indenture or this Note), payment of principal or interest, if any, need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, or at Stated Maturity; that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
Time of Payment
provided
                    . The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Note and by acceptance hereof each Holder of this Note agrees to be subject to and bound by the terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
Legends
                    . This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "Securities") of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to a series of which this Note is a part), to which Base Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, including the supplemental indenture dated November 17, 2009 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of a duly authorized series of Securities designated as "5.750% Senior Notes due 2040" (collectively, the "Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000.
General
                    . The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of Notes of this series, issue additional Notes (the "Additional Notes") of this series having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes of this series. Any Additional Notes of this series and the Notes of this series will constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the Notes of this series shall include the Additional Notes unless the context otherwise requires.
Further Issuance
                    [
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note:
                    . This Note is a Global Note representing $250,000,000 of the Notes. This Note is a "book entry" Note and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository"), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Note will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Note is registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal and interest on this Note by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Depository or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the final payment on this Note will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Note at its Corporate Trust Office or
Book-Entry
such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.]
                    . This Note is entitled to the benefits of the Subsidiary Guarantees by each of the Subsidiary Guarantors of the due and punctual payment and performance of the Guarantor Obligations made in favor of the Trustee for the benefit of the Holder of this Note. Reference is hereby made to Article Sixteen of the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations under the Guarantees of each of the Guarantors.
Guarantees
                    . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
                    . The Notes of this series are not subject to any sinking fund. The Notes of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price, calculated pursuant to the Indenture, together with accrued interest thereon, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the Regular Record Date that is prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest on the relevant Interest Payment Date). In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Notes of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee by such methods, as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem fair and appropriate. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of this Note.
Maturity
                    . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes on the terms set forth in the Indenture.
Redemption upon a Change of Control Triggering Event
                    . The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Note and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
                    . The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture. Furthermore, provisions in the Indenture permit the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of individual series to waive on behalf of all of the Holders of Securities of such individual series certain past defaults
Modification and Waivers; Obligations of the Company Absolute
under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Note and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
                    No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
                    . As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Note of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceedings as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Note on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
Limitation on Suits
provided
however
                    . The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Authorized Denominations
                    . As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
Registration of Transfer or Exchange
                    As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
                    [
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note:
                    . If the Depository is at any time unwilling, unable or ineligible to continue as depository and a successor depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days or an Event of Default under the Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the Company will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange for each Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine not to have Securities represented by a Global Security and, in such event, will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange in whole for the Global Security representing such Security. In any such instance, an owner of a
This Note is a Global Security
beneficial interest in a Global Security will be entitled to physical delivery in certificated form of Securities equal in principal amount to such beneficial interest and to have such Securities registered in its name. Securities so issued in certificated form will be issued in denominations of $2,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000 and will be issued in registered form only, without coupons.
                    No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
                    Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.]
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    
.
Governing Law
This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
                    Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
                    This is one of the Notes of the series designated and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture, as such is supplemented by the within-mentioned Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture.
                    FOR VALUE RECEIVED, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors (as such term is defined in the Indenture, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture and the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture), hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to the Holder of the Note upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed (the "Note") and to the Trustee on behalf of the Holder, the prompt payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest (including, in case of default, interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on overdue interest and including any additional interest required to be paid according to the terms of the Notes) on the Note, when due (whether at Stated Maturity, upon Redemption, upon acceleration, upon tender for repayment at the option of the Company), according to the terms hereof and the terms of the Indenture (the "Guarantor Obligations"). This Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection and is a continuing guarantee and shall apply to all Guarantor Obligations whenever arising.
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder are absolute and unconditional irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Indenture or this Note, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors agrees that this Guarantee may be enforced by the Holder of this Note without the necessity at any time of proceeding against the Company or any other Person (including a co-guarantor) or to pursue any other remedy or enforce any other right. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Holder of this Note from suing on this Note or the Indenture or from exercising any other rights available under this Note and the Indenture, and the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights and shall not constitute a discharge of any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder and under the Indenture; it being the purpose and the intent of each Subsidiary Guarantor that its obligations under this Note and under the Indenture shall be absolute, independent and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Neither any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Company or by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. Each Subsidiary Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Guarantor Obligations or acceptance of this Guarantee. The Guarantor Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guarantee.
Obligations Unconditional and Absolute
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of the Note against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by such Subsidiary Guarantor on account of the Note or the Indenture; , that such Subsidiary Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of, or
Subrogation
provided, however
based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of (or premium, if any, on) and interest on all Notes of this series shall have been indefeasibly paid in full.
                    . Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that (a) the time or place of payment of the Guarantor Obligations may be changed or extended, in whole or in part, to a time certain or otherwise, and may be renewed or accelerated, in whole or in part; (b) the Company and any other party liable for payment under the Indenture or under the Note may be granted indulgences generally; (c) any of the provisions of this Note or the Indenture may be modified, amended or waived; and (d) any party (including any Subsidiary Guarantor) liable for the payment under this Note or under the Indenture may be granted indulgences or be released; all without notice to or further assent by such Subsidiary Guarantor, which shall remain bound thereon, notwithstanding any such exchange, compromise, surrender, extension, renewal, acceleration, modification, indulgence or release.
Modifications
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby waives to the fullest extent permitted by law: (a) notice of acceptance of this Guarantee by the Holder of this Note; (b) presentment and demand for payment or performance of any of the Guarantor Obligations; (c) protest and notice of dishonor or default with respect to the Guarantor Obligations; (d) all other notices to which such Subsidiary Guarantor might otherwise be entitled.
Waiver of Rights
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and under Article Sixteen shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Guarantor Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder of the Notes of this series, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise.
Reinstatement
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that as between each such Subsidiary Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holder and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extant under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
Remedies
                    . The Subsidiary Guarantors, in connection with payments made hereunder, shall have contribution rights against the other Subsidiary Guarantors as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and no Subsidiary Guarantor shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Guarantor Obligations have been paid in full.
Rights of Contribution
                    . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in the Indenture, to the extent the obligations of any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers) then the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state or otherwise and including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).
Limitation of Guaranty
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby covenants that its Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of its obligations contained in the Note, this Subsidiary Guarantee and pursuant to the Indenture;, , that if (a) an Subsidiary Guarantor does not guarantee any Indebtedness of the Company the amount of which, when added together with any other outstanding Indebtedness of the Company guaranteed by its Subsidiaries that are not Subsidiary Guarantors, would exceed $50 million in the aggregate, excluding the Notes of this series, and all outstanding Indebtedness of such Subsidiary Guarantor would have been permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 1011 of the Indenture measured at the time of the release and discharge as described in this paragraph, (b) the Notes of this series are defeased and discharged pursuant to Article Fourteen of the Indenture, or (c) all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor or all of the capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor is sold (including by issuance, merger, consolidation or otherwise) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, then in each case of (a), (b) or (c) above, such Subsidiary Guarantor or the corporation acquiring such assets (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor) shall be automatically and without any further action on the part of any party to the Indenture, and upon notice to the Trustee, be fully released and discharged from all its liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Indenture and this Subsidiary Guarantee of the Note, and promptly upon the request of the Company and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall execute such documents and take such other action as is reasonably requested by the Company to evidence the release and discharge of such Guarantor from all such liabilities and obligations and shall, if applicable, certify to the Company that such Subsidiary Guarantor has no liabilities or obligations resulting from a demand on such Subsidiary Guarantor's Guarantee.
Release of Guarantors
provided
however
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    .
Governing Law
This Subsidiary Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
                    Subject to the next following paragraph, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened precedent to the creation and issuance of this Subsidiary Guarantee and to constitute the same valid obligation of each Subsidiary Guarantor have been done and performed and have happened in due compliance with all applicable laws.
                    This Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Note upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed has been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to in this Note.
Dated: November 17, 2009
EXHIBIT C
                    FOR VALUE RECEIVED, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors executing this additional Subsidiary Guarantee (the "Additional Subsidiary Guarantors"), hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees, jointly and severally, together with the existing Subsidiary Guarantors (as such term is defined in the Indenture) of the Note, to the Holder of the Note upon which this additional Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed (the "Note") and to the Trustee on behalf of the Holder, the prompt payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest (including, in case of default, interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on overdue interest and including any additional interest required to be paid according to the terms of the Notes) on the Note, when due (whether at Stated Maturity, upon Redemption, upon acceleration, upon tender for repayment at the option of the Company), according to the terms hereof and the terms of the Indenture (the "Guarantor Obligations"). This Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection and is a continuing guarantee and shall apply to all Guarantor Obligations whenever arising.
                    . The obligations of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder are absolute and unconditional irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Indenture or this Note, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors agrees that this Guarantee may be enforced by the Holder of this Note without the necessity at any time of proceeding against the Company or any other Person (including a co-guarantor) or to pursue any other remedy or enforce any other right. Each of the Subisidary Guarantors further agrees that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Holder of this Note from suing on this Note or the Indenture or from exercising any other rights available under this Note and the Indenture, and the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights and shall not constitute a discharge of any Additional Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder and under the Indenture; it being the purpose and the intent of each Additional Subsidiary Guarantor that its obligations under this Note and under the Indenture shall be absolute, independent and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Neither any Additional Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under this Subsidiary Guarantee nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Company or by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. Each Additional Subsidiary Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Guarantor Obligations or acceptance of this Subsidiary Guarantee. The Guarantor Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guarantee.
Obligations Unconditional and Absolute
                    . Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of the Note against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor on account of the Note or the Indenture; , that such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any
Subrogation
provided, however
payments arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of (or premium, if any, on) and interest on all Notes of this series shall have been indefeasibly paid in full.
                    . Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that (a) the time or place of payment of the Guarantor Obligations may be changed or extended, in whole or in part, to a time certain or otherwise, and may be renewed or accelerated, in whole or in part; (b) the Company and any other party liable for payment under the Indenture or under the Note may be granted indulgences generally; (c) any of the provisions of this Note or the Indenture may be modified, amended or waived; and (d) any party (including any Subsidiary Guarantor) liable for the payment under this Note or under the Indenture may be granted indulgences or be released; all without notice to or further assent by such Subsidiary Guarantor, which shall remain bound thereon, notwithstanding any such exchange, compromise, surrender, extension, renewal, acceleration, modification, indulgence or release.
Modifications
                    . Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors hereby waives to the fullest extent permitted by law: (a) notice of acceptance of this Guarantee by the Holder of this Note; (b) presentment and demand for payment or performance of any of the Guarantor Obligations; (c) protest and notice of dishonor or default with respect to the Guarantor Obligations; (d) all other notices to which such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor might otherwise be entitled.
Waiver of Rights
                    . The obligations of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and under Article Sixteen shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Guarantor Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder of the Notes of this series, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise.
Reinstatement
                    . Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that as between each such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holder and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extant under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
Remedies
                    . The Additional Guarantors, in connection with payments made hereunder, shall have contribution rights against the other Subsidiary Guarantors as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and no Additional Subsidiary Guarantor shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Guarantor Obligations have been paid in full.
Rights of Contribution
                    . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in the Indenture, to the extent the obligations of any Additional Subsidiary Guarantor shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers)
Limitation of Guaranty
then the obligations of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state or otherwise and including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).
                    . Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors hereby covenants that its Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of its obligations contained in the Note, this Subsidiary Guarantee and pursuant to the Indenture;, , that if (a) an Additional Subsidiary Guarantor does not guarantee any Indebtedness of the Company the amount of which, when added together with any other outstanding Indebtedness of the Company guaranteed by its Subsidiaries that are not Subsidiary Guarantors, would exceed $50 million in the aggregate, excluding the Notes of this series, and all outstanding Indebtedness of such Subsidiary Guarantor would have been permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 1011 of the Indenture measured at the time of the release and discharge as described in this paragraph, (b) the Notes of this series are defeased and discharged pursuant to Article Fourteen of the Indenture, or (c) all or substantially all of the assets of such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor or all of the capital stock of such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor is sold (including by issuance, merger, consolidation or otherwise) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, then in each case of (a), (b) or (c) above, such Subsidiary Guarantor or the corporation acquiring such assets (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor) shall be automatically and without any further action on the part of any party to the Indenture, and upon notice to the Trustee, be fully released and discharged from all its liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Indenture and this Subsidiary Guarantee of the Note, and promptly upon the request of the Company and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall execute such documents and take such other action as is reasonably requested by the Company to evidence the release and discharge of such Guarantor from all such liabilities and obligations and shall, if applicable, certify to the Company that such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor has no liabilities or obligations resulting from a demand on such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor's Guarantee.
Release of Guarantors
provided
however
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    .
Governing Law
This Subsidiary Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
                    This Subsidiary Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
                    Subject to the next following paragraph, each Additional Subsidiary Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened precedent to the creation and issuance of this Subsidiary Guarantee and to constitute the same valid obligation of each Additional Subsidiary Guarantor have been done and performed and have happened in due compliance with all applicable laws.
                    This Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Note upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed has been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to in this Note.

Exhibit 5.1
November 17, 2009
The Board of Directors
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
3 Giralda Farms
Madison, New Jersey 07940
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the 
Company
), in connection with the (i) purchase and sale of $500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Companys 4.750% Senior Notes due 2020 (the 
Notes due 2020
) and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Companys 5.750% Senior Notes due 2040 (the 
Notes due 2040
 and, together with the Notes due 2020, the 
Notes
) and the guarantees of the Notes (collectively, the
Guarantees
) by the Guarantors (
Guarantors
), pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated November 12, 2009 (the 
Underwriting
Agreement
), among the Company, the Guarantors and you; (ii) the preparation and filing by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the 
Commission
) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the 
Securities Act
) of the automatic registration statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-143867) filed by the Company under the Securities Act with the Commission on June 19, 2007, as amended by post-effective amendment no. 1 thereto filed with the Commission on November 12, 2009, (such automatic registration statement, as amended, including the information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act and documents incorporation by reference therein at the time it became effective upon filing, being hereinafter referred to as the 
Registration Statement
); (iii) the preparation and filing with the Commission of the prospectus, dated June 19, 2007, contained in the Registration Statement (the prospectus, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, being hereinafter referred to as the 
Base Prospectus
), the preliminary prospectus, dated November 12, 2009, with respect to the Notes, including the Base Prospectus, the prospectus supplement and all documents incorporated or deemed incorporated therein by reference (in the form in which it was filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b), the 
Preliminary
Prospectus
), the pricing term sheet dated November 12, 2009 relating to the Notes in the form filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act (the 
Pricing Term Sheet
) and the final prospectus dated November 12, 2009 with respect to the Notes including the Base Prospectus, prospectus supplement and all documents incorporated or deemed incorporated therein by reference (in the form in which it was filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, the 
Final
Prospectus
).
The Notes have been issued in one or more series pursuant to an indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 (the 
Base Indenture
) among the Company, the Guarantors (as defined herein) and The Bank of New York Mellon, (formerly, The Bank of New York), as trustee (the 
Trustee
), as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001, among the Company, the Initial Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) party thereto as guarantors, and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a second supplemental indenture, dated as of November 26, 2001, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a third supplemental indenture, dated as of April 4, 2002, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a fourth supplemental indenture, dated as of March 19, 2003, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a fifth supplemental indenture, dated as of April 16, 2004, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantor (as defined therein) party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a sixth supplemental indenture, dated October 31, 2005, among the Company, the Guarantors and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a
seventh supplemental indenture, dated as of November 21, 2005, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by an eighth supplemental indenture, dated as of July 31, 2006, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the ninth supplemental indenture, dated as of September 30, 2006, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, and as further supplemented by the tenth supplemental indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007, among Quest Diagnostics, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, and as further supplemented by the eleventh supplemental indenture, dated June 22, 2007, among Quest Diagnostics, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the twelfth supplemental indenture dated as of June 25, 2007, among Quest Diagnostics, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, and as further supplemented by the thirteenth supplemental indenture, dated as of November 17, 2009, among Quest Diagnostics, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee (collectively, the 
Indenture
).
In that connection, we have reviewed originals or copies of:
The documents described in the foregoing clauses (a) through (c) of this paragraph are collectively referred to herein as the 
Opinion Documents
.
We have also reviewed the following:
We have also reviewed originals or copies of such other corporate records of the Company, certificates of public officials and of officers of the Company and agreements and other documents as we have deemed necessary as a basis for the opinions expressed below.
In our review of the Opinion Documents and other documents, and otherwise for the purposes of this opinion, we have assumed:
     
We have not independently established the validity of the foregoing assumptions.
     
Generally Applicable Law
 means the federal law of the United States of America, and the law of the State of New York (including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder or pursuant thereto), that a New York lawyer exercising customary professional diligence would reasonably be expected to recognize as being applicable to the Company or the Guarantors, the Opinion Documents or the transactions governed by the Opinion Documents, the term Generally Applicable Law does not include any law, rule or regulation that is applicable to the Company, the Opinion Documents or such transactions solely because such law, rule or regulation is part of a regulatory regime applicable to the specific assets or business of any party to any of the Opinion Documents or any of its affiliates.
     
Based upon the foregoing and upon such other investigation as we have deemed necessary and subject to the assumptions and qualifications set forth herein, we are of the opinion that,
     
1.
The Indenture constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of the Company and each of the Guarantors, enforceable against the Company and each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
     
2.
The Notes, when authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered and paid for as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
     
3.
The Guarantees, when the Notes have been authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered and paid for as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of each of the Guarantors, enforceable against each of the Guarantors in accordance with their terms and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
This opinion letter is rendered to you in connection with the filing of the Registration Statement. This opinion letter may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose without our prior written consent.
This opinion letter speaks only as of the date hereof. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to advise you of any development or circumstance of any kind, including any change of law or fact, that may occur after the date of this opinion letter that might affect the opinions expressed therein.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as an exhibit to your Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 17, 2009.
STG/FJE/EWT/ASM/PAS/JSG
LSN


