FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20100129161530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
      Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
      [  ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
     [  ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a - 12)
     [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d -2(b))
     [  ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e -4(c))
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On January 28, 2010, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the Company) entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement (the ASR Agreement) with Barclays Bank PLC, acting through its agent Barclays Capital, Inc., to repurchase approximately $250 million of the Companys common stock (Common Stock), as part of the Companys Common Stock repurchase program.
Under the ASR Agreement, Barclays will deliver to the Company, on January 29, 2010, 4,460,304 shares of Common Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $250 million, which is equivalent to a price of $56.05 per share. The initial number of shares of Common Stock will be adjusted based on the arithmetic average of a daily volume-weighted average price of the Common Stock over a measurement period of approximately four to eight weeks, the exact termination date of which will be selected by Barclays. The measurement period is subject to extension by Barclays in certain circumstances as described in the ASR Agreement. After the termination of this period, the Company may receive additional shares of Common Stock or be required to remit, at the Companys election, cash or additional shares of Common Stock based on this average price.
The preceding description of the ASR Agreement does not purport to be a complete description and is qualified in its entirety by the ASR Agreement which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
EXHIBITS

Exhibit 10.1
 
                    The purpose of this letter agreement (this "") is to confirm the terms and conditions of the Transaction entered into between Barclays Bank PLC (""), through its agent Barclays Capital Inc. (the ""), and Quest Diagnostics Incorporated ("y") on the Trade Date specified below (the ""). This Confirmation constitutes a "" as referred to in the Master Agreement specified below.
Confirmation
Barclays
Agent
Counterpart
Transaction
Confirmation
Barclays Bank PLC is not a member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC"). Barclays is regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
The definitions and provisions contained in the 2002 ISDA Equity Derivatives Definitions (the ""), as published by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc., are incorporated into this Confirmation. In the event of any inconsistency between the Equity Definitions and this Confirmation, this Confirmation shall govern. For purposes of the Equity Definitions, this Transaction shall be deemed to be a Share Forward Transaction.
Equity Definitions
Each party is hereby advised, and each such party acknowledges, that the other party has engaged in, or refrained from engaging in, substantial financial transactions and has taken other material actions in reliance upon the parties' entry into the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates on the terms and conditions set forth below.
1. This Confirmation evidences a complete and binding agreement between Barclays and Counterparty as to the terms of the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates. This Confirmation shall supplement, form a part of, and be subject to, an agreement in the form of the ISDA 1992 Master Agreement (Multicurrency  Cross Border) (the "") as if Barclays and Counterparty had executed an agreement in such form (without any Schedule except for (i) the election of U.S. Dollars as the Termination Currency; (ii) the election that the "Cross Default" provisions of Section 5(a)(vi) shall apply to Counterparty and Barclays with a "Threshold Amount" of USD 150 million with respect to Counterparty and three percent of shareholders' equity with respect to Barclays, and with an amendment of Section 5(a)(vi) to (A) delete the phrase ", or becoming capable at such time of being declared," in the seventh line thereof and (B) add the following text at the end Section 5(a)(vi)(2): "provided, however, that an Event of Default shall not occur under either (1) or (2) above if the default, Event of Default or other similar event
Agreement
or condition referred to in (1) or the failure to pay referred to in (2) is a failure to pay caused by an error or omission of an administrative or operational nature and funds were available to such party to enable it to make the relevant payment when due and such payment is in fact made on or before the third Local Business Day following receipt of written notice from the other party of such failure to pay;" and (iii) such other elections set forth in this Confirmation) on the Trade Date. In the event of any inconsistency between provisions of the Agreement and this Confirmation, this Confirmation will prevail for the purpose of the Transaction. The parties hereby agree that no Transaction other than the Transaction to which this Confirmation relates shall be governed by the Agreement.
2. The terms of the particular Transaction to which this Confirmation relates are as follows:
The Office of Counterparty for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Counterparty is not a Multibranch Party.
The Office of Barclays for the Transaction is: Inapplicable, Barclays is not a Multibranch Party.
For purposes of this Confirmation:
This Confirmation may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparty hereby agrees to check this Confirmation and to confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of the Transaction by signing in the space provided below and returning to Barclays a facsimile of the fully-executed Confirmation to Barclays at (+1) 917-522-0458. Originals shall be provided for your execution upon your request.
Very truly yours,


