FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20110201213948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
          Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
          [   ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
          [   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
          [   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
          [   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 8.01. Other Events
On January 31, 2011, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company") agreed to repurchase 15,377,551 shares of its common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), from SB Holdings Capital, Inc., an affiliate of GlaxoSmithKline plc (the "Selling Stockholder") at a purchase price of $54.30 per share. The aggregate purchase price will be approximately $835.0 million, which the Company expects to fund with approximately $260.0 million of cash-on-hand and borrowings under available credit facilities. The Company expects the repurchase to be consummated on February 4, 2011.
On January 31, 2011, the Company and the Selling Stockholder entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, as the underwriters in connection with a public offering by the Selling Stockholder of 15,377,600 shares of Common Stock. The offering was made pursuant to the Company's existing shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-167603) (as amended by post-effective amendment no. 1 thereto, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 31, 2011, the "Registration Statement") and is expected to close on February 4, 2011. The Company did not sell any shares of Common Stock in the offering and will not receive any of the proceeds from the offering. The Company will pay all expenses associated with the offering, other than underwriting discounts and commissions, which are payable by the Selling Stockholder.
The Underwriting Agreement has been filed as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K and the Registration Statement.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 1.1
EXECUTION VERSION
Dated: January 31, 2011
January 31, 2011
DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC. c/o Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. 60 Wall Street New York, New York 10005
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC c/o J.P. Morgan Securities LLC 383 Madison Avenue New York, New York 10179
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and SB Holdings Capital Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Selling Shareholder"), confirm their respective agreements with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Underwriters" which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 11 hereof) with respect to the sale by the Selling Shareholder and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective numbers of shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the "Common Stock") set forth in Schedule A hereto. The aforesaid 15,377,600 shares of Common Stock to be purchased by the Underwriters are herein called the "Shares."
          The Company and the Selling Shareholder understand that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of the Shares as soon as the Underwriters deem advisable after this Agreement has been executed and delivered.
          The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement, including a prospectus, (the file number of which is 333-167603) on Form S-3, relating to securities (the "Shelf Securities"), including the Shares, to be sold from time to time by the Selling Shareholder. The registration statement as amended to the date of this Agreement, including the information (if any) deemed to be part of the registration statement at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430A or Rule 430B under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act") and post-effective Amendment No. 1 (filed with the Commission on January 31, 2011), is hereinafter referred to as the "Registration
Statement", and the related prospectus covering the Shelf Securities dated January 31, 2011 in the form first used to confirm sales of the Shares (or in the form first made available to the Underwriters by the Company to meet requests of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the 1933 Act) is hereinafter referred to as the "Basic Prospectus". The Basic Prospectus, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Shares in the form first used to confirm sales of the Shares (or in the form first made available to the Underwriters by the Company to meet requests of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the 1933 Act) is hereinafter referred to as the "Prospectus", and the term "preliminary prospectus" means any preliminary form of the Prospectus.
          For purposes of this Agreement, "free writing prospectus" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, "Time of Sale Prospectus" means the preliminary prospectus identified in Schedule B hereto together with the free writing prospectuses, if any, each identified in Schedule B hereto, and "broadly available road show" means a "bona fide electronic road show" as defined in Rule 433(h)(5) under the 1933 Act that has been made available without restriction to any person. As used herein, the terms "Registration Statement", "Basic Prospectus", "preliminary prospectus", "Time of Sale Prospectus" and "Prospectus" shall include the documents, if any, incorporated by reference therein. The terms "supplement", "amendment", and "amend" as used herein with respect to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or free writing prospectus shall include all documents subsequently filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein.
          All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained", "included", "stated", "described" or "disclosed" in the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or free writing prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or free writing prospectus, as the case may be.
          SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties
          (a) . The Company represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(c) hereof (unless otherwise specified), and agrees with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Company
          (b) . The Selling Shareholder represents and warrants to each Underwriter as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(c) hereof (unless otherwise specified), and agrees with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties of the Selling Shareholder
          (c) . Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, delivered to the Underwriters or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company or any of the Subsidiaries to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby; and any certificate signed by or on behalf of the Selling Shareholder as such and delivered to the Underwriters or to counsel for the Underwriters pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Selling Shareholder to the Underwriters as to the matters covered thereby.
Officer's Certificates
          SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
          (a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Selling Shareholder agrees to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Selling Shareholder, at the price per share set forth in Schedule A, that proportion of the number of Shares set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of the Selling Shareholder, which the number of Shares set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional number of Shares which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 11 hereof, bears to the total number of Shares, subject, in each case, to such adjustments among the Underwriters as the Underwriters shall make to eliminate any sales or purchases of fractional shares.
Shares
          (b) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Shares shall be made at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Underwriters and the Company and the Selling Shareholder, at 9:00 A.M. (New York City time) on February 4, 2011 (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 11), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Underwriters, the Company and the Selling Shareholder (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "Closing Time").
Payment
          Payment shall be made to the Selling Shareholder by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Selling Shareholder against delivery to the Underwriters for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Shares to be purchased by them. Each Underwriter may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Shares to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
          (c) . Certificates for the Shares shall be in such denominations and registered in such names as the Underwriters may request in writing at least one full business day before the Closing Time. The certificates for the Shares will be made available for examination and packaging by the Underwriters in the City of New York not later than 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time.
Denominations; Registration
          SECTION 3. .
Covenants of the Company and the Selling Shareholder
          (a) . The Company covenants with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company
          (b) . During a period of 30 days from the date of the Prospectus, the Selling Shareholder will not, without the prior written consent of the Underwriters, (i) directly or indirectly, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of any shares of Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of the Common Stock, whether any such swap or transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of Common Stock or such other securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to Shares to be sold hereunder or pursuant to the Share Repurchase Agreement entered into between the Company and the Selling Shareholder on or around the date hereof.
Covenants of the Selling Shareholder
          SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
          (a) The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, filing and printing of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, the Prospectus, any free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of, used by, or referred to by the Company (including financial statements and any schedules or exhibits) and of each amendment or supplement thereto, including the filing fees payable to the Commission relating to the Shares (within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1), if applicable), and the delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Shares, (iii) the preparation and delivery of the certificates for the Shares to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Shares under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(h) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the fees and expenses of any transfer agent or registrar for the Shares, (vii) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review by The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA") of the terms of the sale
Expenses.
of the Shares, (viii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplements thereto and (ix) the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange.
          (b) . The Selling Shareholder will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under, and the consummation of the transactions contemplated by, this Agreement, including (i) any stamp and other duties and stock and other transfer taxes, if any, payable upon the sale of the Shares to the Underwriters and their transfer between the Underwriters pursuant to an agreement between such Underwriters, and (ii) the fees and disbursements of its counsel and other advisors.
Expenses of the Selling Shareholder
          (c) . (i) If this Agreement is terminated by the Underwriters in accordance with the provisions of Section 5(a), Section 5(c), Section 5(d), Section 5(f), Section 5(g), Section 5(i), Section 5(j), Section 5(k)(A) or Section 10(a)(i) hereof, the Company shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out of pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters and (ii) if this Agreement is terminated by the Underwriters in accordance with the provisions of Section 5(b), Section 5(e), Section 5(h), Section 5(k)(B) or Section 12 hereof, the Selling Shareholder shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out of pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
Termination of Agreement
          (d) . The provisions of this Section shall not affect any agreement that the Company and the Selling Shareholder may make for the sharing of such costs and expenses.
Allocation of Expenses
          SECTION 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the following conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
          (a) . The accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Section 1(a) hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, and the performance by the Company of its covenants and other obligations hereunder.
Accuracy of Representations and Warranties of the Company
          (b) . The accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Selling Shareholder contained in Section 1(b) hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Selling Shareholder delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, and the performance by the Selling Shareholder of its covenants and other obligations hereunder.
Accuracy of Representations and Warranties of the Selling Shareholder
          (c) . At Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
          (d) . At the Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of William J. O'Shaughnessy, Assistant General Counsel of the Company, in form and substance reasonably
Opinion of Assistant General Counsel of the Company
satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit C hereto.
          (e) . At Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, counsel for the Selling Shareholder, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit D hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for the Selling Shareholder
          (f) . At Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York and the federal law of the United States and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Underwriters. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and the Subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
          (g) . At the Closing Time, (i) the Prospectus, as it may then be amended or supplemented, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (ii) there shall not have been, since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Time of Sale Prospectus, any material adverse change in the business, financial condition, operations, cash flow or business prospects of the Company and of the Subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business; (iii) the Company shall have complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Time; and (iv) the representations and warranties of the Company in Section 1(a) shall be accurate and true and correct as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Time. The Underwriters shall have received a certificate of Robert A. Hagemann, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Michael G. Lukas, Vice President, Finance of the Company, dated as of Closing Time, to such effect.
Officers' Certificate
          (h) . At the Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received a certificate of the Selling Shareholder, dated the Closing Time, to the effect that (i) the representations and warranties of the Selling Shareholder in this Agreement are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Time and (ii) the Selling Shareholder has complied with all agreements and all conditions on its part to be performed under this Agreement at or prior to the Closing Time.
Certificate of Selling Shareholder
          (i) . The Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act within the applicable time period prescribed for such filing by the rules and regulations under the 1933 Act; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof shall have been
Prospectus and Free Writing Prospectus
issued and no proceeding for that purpose shall have been initiated or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened by the Commission and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the 1933 Act shall have been received; no stop order suspending or preventing the use of the Prospectus or any issuer free writing prospectus shall have been initiated or threatened by the Commission; and all requests for additional information on the part of the Commission shall have been complied with to the Underwriters' reasonable satisfaction.
          (j) . At each of the time of the execution of this Agreement and the Closing Time, the Underwriters shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP letters with respect to the Company dated the date hereof or the Closing Time, as the case may be, in form and substance satisfactory to the Underwriters or to counsel for the Underwriters and to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to Underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information of the Company contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Prospectus and the Prospectus; that the letter delivered at the Closing Time shall use a "cut-off date" no more than three business days prior to the Closing Time.
Comfort Letters and Consent
provided
          (l) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Underwriters by notice to the Company and the Selling Shareholder at any time at or prior to Closing Time and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party
Termination of Agreement
except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
          SECTION 6. . Each Underwriter severally covenants with the Company not to take any action that would result in the Company being required to file with the Commission under Rule 433(d) a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of such Underwriter that otherwise would not be required to be filed by the Company thereunder, but for the action of the Underwriter.
Covenants of the Underwriters
          SECTION 7. .
Indemnification
          (a) . The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act to the extent and in the manner set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below, as follows:
Indemnification of the Underwriters
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue
provided
however
statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter expressly for use therein.
          (b) The Selling Shareholder agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act of Section 20 of the 1934 Act to the extent and in the manner set forth in clauses (a)(i), (ii) and (iii) above, in each case to the extent, and only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished by the Selling Shareholder expressly for use therein (it being agreed that the only information that the Selling Shareholder has furnished expressly for use in the Registration Statement or amendment thereof, any preliminary prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any issuer free writing prospectus as defined in Rule 433(h) under the 1933 Act, any Company information that the Company has filed, or is required to file, pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act or the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto is the name of such Selling Shareholder, the address of such Selling Shareholder, the number of Shares of Common Stock to be sold by such Selling Shareholder set forth in the Time of Sale Prospectus and the Prospectus under the caption "Selling Stockholder"). Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event shall the liability of the Selling Shareholder to provide indemnity pursuant to this Section 7(b), or contribution pursuant to Section 8, or, for the avoidance of doubt, pursuant to both such sections taken together, exceed the amount of net proceeds received by the Selling Shareholder in connection with the sale of the Shares under this Agreement.
Indemnification by Selling Shareholder.
          (c) . Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, its directors and officers, and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act and the Selling Shareholder and each person, if any, who controls the Selling Shareholder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any issuer free writing prospectus or the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of Company, Directors and Officers and the Selling Shareholder
          (d) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(a) and 7(b) above, counsel to such indemnified parties shall be selected by the Underwriters and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(c) above, counsel to such indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of
Actions against Parties; Notification
provided
however
the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 7 or Section 8 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
          (e) . If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 7(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 45 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party for the indemnified party's reasonable fees and expenses of counsel in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (A) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (B) provides written notice to the indemnified party disputing the unpaid balance in good faith and substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement, subject to provision of notice by the indemnified party in accordance with (i) and (ii) above.
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
          SECTION 8. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 7 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Selling Shareholder on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Shares pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Selling Shareholder on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
          The relative benefits received by the Company and the Selling Shareholder on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Shares pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Shares pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the Selling Shareholder on the one hand and the total underwriting discount received by the Underwriters on the other hand, in each case as set forth on the cover of the Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial offering prices of the Shares as set forth on such cover of the Prospectus.
          The relative fault of the Company and the Selling Shareholder on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Selling Shareholder or by the Underwriters, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
          The Company, the Selling Shareholder and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 8. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 8 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Shares sold by it exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
          For purposes of this Section 8, (a) each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and (b) each director of the Company and each person, if any, who controls the Company or the Selling Shareholder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company or the Selling Shareholder, as the case may be. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8 are several in proportion to the number of Shares set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto and not joint.
          SECTION 9. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
officers of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries or the Selling Shareholder submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or controlling person, or by or on behalf of the Company or any person controlling the Selling Shareholder, and shall survive delivery of the Shares to the Underwriters.
          SECTION 10. .
Termination of Agreement
          (a) . The Underwriters may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company and the Selling Shareholder, at any time at or prior to the Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Time of Sale Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, business or properties of the Company and the Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, except as disclosed in the Time of Sale Prospectus or the Prospectus (in each case, exclusive of any supplement thereto after the date hereof), or (ii) if there has occurred any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof, declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war, or other calamity or crisis, the effect of which on the financial markets is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Underwriters, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Shares or delivery of the Shares, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or limited by the Commission or the NYSE, or if trading generally on the NYSE has been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed on the NYSE, or (iv) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
Termination; General
          (b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
          SECTION 11. . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at Closing Time to purchase the Shares which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), the Underwriters shall have the right, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Underwriters shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
          No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriter from liability in respect of its default.
          In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement either the (i) Underwriters or (ii) the Company and the Selling Shareholder shall have the right to postpone Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement, in the Time of Sale Prospectus, in the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section 11.
          SECTION 12. . If the Selling Shareholder shall fail at the Closing Time to sell and deliver the number of Shares which the Selling Shareholder is obligated to sell hereunder, then the Underwriters may, at their option, by notice from the Underwriters to the Company, terminate this Agreement without any liability on the fault of any non-defaulting party except that the provisions of Sections 1, 4, 7, 8, 9 and 16 shall remain in full force and effect. No action taken pursuant to this Section 12 shall relieve the Selling Shareholder so defaulting from liability, if any, in respect of such default.
Default by the Selling Shareholder
          In the event of a default by the Selling Shareholder as referred to in this Section 12, each of the Underwriters and the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required change in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package or the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements.
          SECTION 13. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., 60 Wall Street, 4th Floor, New York, New York 10005, Attention: Equity Syndicate Desk and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, 383 Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10179 (fax: (212) 622-8358), Attention: Equity Syndicate Desk, with a copy to Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, One New York Plaza, New York, New York 10004, attention of Stuart H. Gelfond, Esq.; notices to the Company shall be directed to it at Three Giralda Farms, Madison, New Jersey 07940, attention of Assistant General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, with a copy to Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, attention of Stephen T. Giove, Esq.; and notices to the Selling Shareholder shall be directed to it at 1105 North Market Street, Suite 622, Wilmington, Delaware 19801, United States, attention of William J. Mosher, Esq., with a copy to Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, 55 Basinghall Street, London EC2V 5EH, United Kingdom, attention of Sebastian R. Sperber, Esq.
Notices
          SECTION 14. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters, the Company and the Selling Shareholder and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters, the Company and the Selling
Parties
Shareholder and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 7 and 8 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters, the Company and the Selling Shareholder and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Shares from any Underwriter shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
          SECTION 15. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF. SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY HEREIN REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
Governing Law and Time
          SECTION 16. . The Article, Section and subsection headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
          SECTION 17. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability
          SECTION 18. . Each of the Company and the Selling Shareholder acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Shares pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Shares and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company and the Selling Shareholder, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company and the Selling Shareholder are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, the Selling Shareholder or their respective affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company and the Selling Shareholder with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company and the Selling Shareholder on other matters) or any other obligation to the Company and the Selling Shareholder except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the Selling Shareholders and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any fiduciary or advisory relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
contemplated hereby and the Company and the Selling Shareholder have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent they deemed appropriate. The Company and the Selling Shareholder hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company and the Selling Shareholder may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of fiduciary duty.
          SECTION 19. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General Provisions
.
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company and the Selling Shareholder a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement among the Underwriters, the Company and the Selling Shareholder in accordance with its terms.
          The initial public offering price per share for the Shares shall be $56.25.
          The purchase price per share for the Shares to be paid by the several Underwriters shall be $55.615, being an amount equal to the initial public offering price set forth above less $0.635 per share.
Directors:
1. John C. Baldwin, M.D.
2. Jenne K. Britell, Ph.D.
3. William F. Buehler
4. Rosanne Haggerty
5. Surya N. Mohapatra, Ph.D.
6. Gary M. Pfeiffer
7. Daniel C. Stanzione, Ph.D.
8. Gail R. Wilensky, Ph.D.
9. John B. Ziegler, Ph.D.
Officers:
1. Robert A. Hagemann
2. Jon R. Cohen
3. Joan E. Miller
4. Michael E. Prevoznik
5. Wayne A. Simmons


