FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20110325151922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction a.2. below):
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On March 24, 2011, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company") issued $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 3.200% Senior Notes due 2016 (the "2016 Notes"), $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.700% Senior Notes due 2021 (the "2021 Notes"), $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.750% Senior Notes due 2040 (the "2040 Notes"), and $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Floating Rate Notes"). The 2040 Notes constitute a further issuance of the $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.750% Senior Notes due 2040 issued by the Company on November 17, 2009.
The Company will pay interest on the 2016 Notes and the 2021 Notes on April 1 and October 1 of each year, beginning on October 1, 2011. The Company will pay interest on the 2040 Notes on January 30 and July 30 of each year, beginning July 30, 2011. The Company will pay interest on the Floating Rate Notes on March 24, June 24, September 24 and December 24 of each year, beginning June 24, 2011.
The 2016 Notes will mature on April 1, 2016. The 2021 Notes will mature on April 1, 2021. The 2040 Notes will mature on January 30, 2040. The Floating Rate Notes will mature on March 24, 2014. The Notes will be the senior unsecured obligations of the Company and will rank equally with the Company's other and future senior unsecured obligations. Each guarantee will be a senior unsecured obligation of the guarantor issuing such guarantee and will rank equally with other existing and future senior unsecured obligations of such guarantor. The Notes will not be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund.
The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of June 27, 2001 among the Company, the guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by the first through thirteenth supplemental indentures of various dates, among the Company, the Trustee, and the subsidiary guarantors party thereto and as further supplemented by a fourteenth supplemental indenture dated March 24, 2011 (collectively, the "Indenture") among the Company, the Trustee and the subsidiary guarantors party thereto. The Indenture contains covenants that, among other things, will limit the ability of the Company and the guarantors to create certain liens; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; incur indebtedness of non-guarantor subsidiaries; and make restricted payments to certain non-guarantor subsidiaries. The Indenture provides for customary events of default. Upon a change of control triggering event (as defined in the Indenture), the Company will be required to make an offer to purchase the Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase.
The foregoing description of the Indenture does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the applicable agreements, each of which is included as an exhibit to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated by reference herein.
A copy of the opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel to the Company, relating to the legality of the Notes is filed as Exhibit 5.1 to this Report.
Item 8.01 Other Events
     
On March 21, 2011, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the "Company") issued a press release announcing a proposed senior notes offering. A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     
On March 21, 2011, the Company entered into an underwriting agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Goldman, Sachs & Co., RBS Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC on behalf of themselves and the other underwriters named therein. The Underwriting Agreement is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 1.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 1.1
Dated: March 21, 2011
March 21, 2011
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED GOLDMAN, SACHS & CO. RBS SECURITIES INC. J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES LLC WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC
c/o MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED 1585 Broadway New York, NY 10036
Ladies and Gentlemen:
          Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and each of the Guarantors listed on Schedule D hereto (the "Guarantors"), confirm their respective agreements with Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated ("Morgan Stanley"), Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("Goldman Sachs"), RBS Securities Inc. ("RBS"), J.P. Morgan Securities LLC ("J.P. Morgan") and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC ("Wells Fargo") (collectively the "Joint Book-Running Managers") and each of the other Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Underwriters", which term shall also include any underwriter substituted as hereinafter provided in Section 11 hereof), for whom Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, RBS, J.P. Morgan and Wells Fargo are acting as representatives (in such capacity, the "Representatives"), with respect to (i) the issue and sale by the Company and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the respective principal amounts set forth in said Schedule A of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.200% Senior Notes due 2016, $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.700% Senior Notes due 2021, $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.750% Senior Notes due 2040 and $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2014 (collectively, the "Notes") and (ii) the issue and sale by the Guarantors and the purchase by the Underwriters, acting severally and not jointly, of the senior guarantees (the "Guarantees") of the Company's obligations under the Notes. The Notes and the Guarantees are to be issued pursuant to an indenture dated as of June 27, 2001 (the "Base Indenture") among the Company, the Guarantors and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as successor trustee to The Bank of New York (the "Trustee"), as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001, among the Company, as issuer, the Initial Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto as guarantors, and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a second supplemental indenture, dated as of November 26, 2001, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a third supplemental indenture, dated as of April 4, 2002, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a fourth supplemental indenture, dated as of March 19, 2003, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a fifth supplemental indenture, dated as of April 16, 2004, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a sixth supplemental indenture, dated as of October 31, 2005, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a seventh supplemental indenture, dated as of November 31, 2005, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a eighth supplemental indenture, dated as of July 31, 2006, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a ninth supplemental indenture, dated as of September 30, 2006, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantor party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a tenth supplemental indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by an eleventh supplemental indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a twelfth supplemental indenture, dated as of June 25, 2007, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a thirteenth supplemental indenture, dated November 17, 2009, and to be further supplemented by a fourteenth supplemental indenture dated March 24, 2011 (the "Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture"; and the Base Indenture together with all such supplements, the "Indenture") among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors party thereto and the Trustee. The Notes will be issued only in book-entry form in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depositary") pursuant to a letter of representations, to be dated on or before the Closing Time (as defined in Section 2 hereof) (the "DTC Agreement"), among the Company, the Guarantors, the Trustee and the Depositary.
          The payment of principal of, premium and interest on the Notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis, jointly and severally by each Guarantor, pursuant to their "Guarantees". The Notes and the Guarantees attached thereto are herein collectively referred to as the "Securities".
          The Company has filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement, including a prospectus, (the file number of which is 333-167603) on Form S-3, relating to securities (the "Shelf Securities"), including the Securities, to be issued from time to time by the Company. The registration statement as amended to the date of this Agreement, including the information (if any) deemed to be part of the registration statement at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430A or Rule 430B under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), post-effective Amendment No. 1 (filed with the Commission on January 31, 2011) and post-effective Amendment No. 2 (filed with the Commission on February 7, 2011) is hereinafter referred to as the "Registration Statement", and
the related prospectus covering the Shelf Securities dated February 7, 2011 is hereinafter referred to as the "Basic Prospectus". The Basic Prospectus, as supplemented by the prospectus supplement specifically relating to the Securities in the form first used to confirm sales of the Securities (or in the form first made available to the Underwriters by the Company to meet requests of purchasers pursuant to Rule 173 under the 1933 Act) is hereinafter referred to as the "Prospectus", and the term "preliminary prospectus" means any preliminary form of the Prospectus. For purposes of this Agreement, "free writing prospectus" has the meaning set forth in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, "Time of Sale Prospectus" means the preliminary prospectus identified in Schedule B hereto together with the free writing prospectuses, if any, each identified in Schedule B hereto, and "broadly available road show" means a "bona fide electronic road show" as defined in Rule 433(h)(5) under the 1933 Act that has been made available without restriction to any person. As used herein, the terms "Registration Statement", "Basic Prospectus", "preliminary prospectus", "Time of Sale Prospectus" and "Prospectus" shall include the documents, if any, incorporated by reference therein. The terms "supplement", "amendment", and "amend" as used herein with respect to the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or free writing prospectus shall include all documents subsequently filed by the Company with the Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "1934 Act"), that are deemed to be incorporated by reference therein.
          All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained", "included", "stated", "described" or "disclosed" in the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or free writing prospectus (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement, the Basic Prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any preliminary prospectus or free writing prospectus, as the case may be.
          SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties
          (a) . The Company and each of the Guarantors, jointly and severally, represent and warrant to each Underwriter as of the date hereof and as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(b) hereof (unless otherwise specified), and agree with each Underwriter, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Company and the Guarantors
          (b) . Any certificate signed by any officer of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, as the case may be, delivered to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Company or any of the Subsidiaries to each Underwriter as to the matters covered thereby.
Officer's Certificates
          SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to Underwriters; Closing
          (a) . On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Company and the
Notes and Guarantees
Guarantors agree to sell to each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, and each Underwriter, severally and not jointly, agrees to purchase from the Company, at the prices set forth in Schedule C-1, the aggregate principal amount of Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) set forth in Schedule A opposite the name of such Underwriter, plus any additional principal amount of Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) which such Underwriter may become obligated to purchase pursuant to the provisions of Section 11 hereof.
          (b) . The Company is advised by you that the Underwriters propose to make a public offering of their respective portions of the Securities as soon after this Agreement has become effective as in your judgment is advisable. The Company is further advised by you that the Securities are to be offered to the public upon the terms set forth in the Prospectus.
Public Offering
          (c) . Payment of the purchase price for, and delivery of certificates for, the Securities shall be made at the offices of Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives, the Company and the Guarantors at 9:00 A.M. (New York Time) on March 24, 2011 (unless postponed in accordance with the provisions of Section 11), or such other time not later than ten business days after such date as shall be agreed upon by the Representatives, the Company and the Guarantors (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called the "Closing Time").
Payment
          Payment shall be made to the Company and the Guarantors by wire transfer of immediately available funds to bank accounts designated by the Company against delivery to the Representatives for the respective accounts of the Underwriters of certificates for the Notes and the Guarantees to be purchased by them. It is understood that each Underwriter has authorized the Representatives, for its account, to accept delivery of, receipt for, and make payment of the purchase price for, the Notes and the Guarantees which it has agreed to purchase. Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, RBS, J.P. Morgan and Wells Fargo, individually and not as representative of the Underwriters, may (but shall not be obligated to) make payment of the purchase price for the Notes and the Guarantees to be purchased by any Underwriter whose funds have not been received by the Closing Time, but such payment shall not relieve such Underwriter from its obligations hereunder.
          (d) . Certificates for the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto), shall be in such denominations and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of the Depositary, pursuant to the DTC Agreement. The certificates for the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) will be made available for examination by the Representatives in The City of New York not later than 9:00 A.M. (New York Time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time.
Denominations; Registration
          SECTION 3. . The Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, covenant with each Underwriter as follows:
Covenants of the Company and the Guarantors
          (a) . The Company and the Guarantors, as promptly as possible, will deliver to each Underwriter, without charge, a signed copy of the Registration Statement (including exhibits thereto and documents
Delivery of Registration Statement, Time of Sale Prospectus and Prospectus
incorporated by reference) and will deliver to each Underwriter during the period mentioned in Section 3(e) or 3(f) below, as many copies of the Time of Sale Prospectus, the Prospectus and any amendments and supplements thereto and any documents incorporated therein by reference as such Underwriter may reasonably request.
          (b) . The Company and the Guarantors will, before amending or supplementing the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Prospectus or the Prospectus, furnish to you a copy of each such proposed amendment or supplement and not file any such proposed amendment or supplement to which you reasonably object and file with the Commission within the applicable period specified in Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act any prospectus required to be filed pursuant to such Rule.
Amendments and Supplements
          (c) . The Company and the Guarantors will furnish to you a copy of each proposed free writing prospectus to be prepared by or on behalf of, used by, or referred to by the Company or any Guarantor and not to use or refer to any proposed free writing prospectus to which you reasonably object.
Free Writing Prospectus
          (d) . The Company and the Guarantors will not take any action that would result in an Underwriter or the Company or any Guarantor being required to file with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of the Underwriter that the Underwriter otherwise would not have been required to file thereunder.
Free Writing Prospectus (Underwriter)
          (e) . If the Time of Sale Prospectus is being used to solicit offers to buy the Securities at a time when the Prospectus is not yet available to prospective purchasers and any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Prospectus in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances, not misleading, or if any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which the Time of Sale Prospectus conflicts with the information contained in the Registration Statement then on file, or if, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or counsel to the Company, it is necessary to amend or supplement the Time of Sale Prospectus to comply with applicable law, the Company and the Guarantors will forthwith prepare, file with the Commission and furnish, at their own expense, to the Underwriters and to any dealer upon request, either amendments or supplements to the Time of Sale Prospectus so that the statements in the Time of Sale Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances when delivered to a prospective purchaser, be misleading or so that the Time of Sale Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will no longer conflict with the Registration Statement, or so that the Time of Sale Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with applicable law.
Amend or Supplement Time of Sale Prospectus
          (f) . If, during such period after the first date of the public offering of the Securities as in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or counsel to the Company the Prospectus (or in lieu thereof the notice referred to in Rule 173(a) under the 1933 Act) is required by law to be delivered in connection with sales by an Underwriter or dealer, any event shall occur or condition exist as a result of which it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances when the Prospectus (or in lieu thereof the notice referred to in Rule 173(a) under
Amend or Supplement Prospectus
the 1933 Act) is delivered to a purchaser, not misleading, or if, in the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters or counsel to the Company, it is necessary to amend or supplement the Prospectus to comply with applicable law, the Company and the Guarantors will forthwith prepare, file with the Commission and furnish, at their own expense, to the Underwriters and to the dealers (whose names and addresses you will furnish to the Company) to which Securities may have been sold by you on behalf of the Underwriters and to any other dealers upon request, either amendments or supplements to the Prospectus so that the statements in the Prospectus as so amended or supplemented will not, in the light of the circumstances when the Prospectus (or in lieu thereof the notice referred to in Rule 173(a) under the 1933 Act) is delivered to a purchaser, be misleading or so that the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, will comply with applicable law.
          (g) . The Company and the Guarantors will use their reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Underwriters, to qualify the Notes and the Guarantees for offering and sale under the applicable securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Representatives may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect as long as required for the sale of the Notes and the Guarantees; , , that (i) the Company and the Guarantors shall in no event be required to continue in effect any such qualification for a period of more than 180 days after the Closing Time, (ii) the Company and the Guarantors will not be required to qualify as a foreign corporation or to file a general consent to service of process in any jurisdiction in which they are not so qualified and (iii) the Company will not be required to subject itself to taxation (other than any nominal amount) in any jurisdiction if not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Qualifications
provided
however
          (h) . The Company and the Guarantors will timely file such reports pursuant to the 1934 Act as are necessary in order to make generally available to their securityholders as soon as practicable an earnings statement for the purposes of, and to provide the benefits contemplated by, the last paragraph of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act.
Rule 158
          (i) . The Company and the Guarantors will use the net proceeds received by them from the sale of the Notes and the Guarantees in the manner specified in the Time of Sale Prospectus and the Prospectus under "Use of Proceeds".
Use of Proceeds
          (j) . Except as otherwise contemplated in the Time of Sale Prospectus and the Prospectus, during the period commencing on the date hereof and ending at the Closing Time, the Company and the Guarantors will not, without the prior written consent of the Underwriters, (i) directly or indirectly, offer, pledge, sell, contract to sell, sell any option or contract to purchase, purchase any option or contract to sell, grant any option, right or warrant to purchase or otherwise transfer or dispose of any debt securities or guarantees of debt securities of the Company or any Guarantor or any securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for any debt securities or guarantees of debt securities of the Company or any Guarantor or file any registration statement under the 1933 Act with respect to any of the foregoing or (ii) enter into any swap or any other agreement or any transaction that transfers, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, the economic consequence of ownership of any debt securities or guarantees of debt securities of the Company or any Guarantor, whether any such swap or transaction described in clause (i) or (ii) above is to be settled by delivery of any debt securities or guarantees of debt securities of the Company or any Guarantor or such other
Restriction on Sale of Securities
securities, in cash or otherwise. The foregoing sentence shall not apply to the Notes and the Guarantees to be sold hereunder.
          (k) . The Company and the Guarantors will prepare a final term sheet relating to the offering of the Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Securities or the offering in a form consented to by the Representatives, and to file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) under the 1933 Act following the date the final terms have been established for the offering of the Securities.
Final Term Sheet
          (l) . The Company, during the period when the Time of Sale Prospectus or the Prospectus is required to be delivered, will file all documents required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act within the time periods required by the 1934 Act and the 1934 Act Regulations.
Reporting Requirements
          (m) . The Company and the Guarantors will use all reasonable efforts in cooperation with the Underwriters to permit the Notes and the Guarantees to be eligible for clearance and settlement through The Depository Trust Company.
DTC Clearance
          SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
          (a) . The Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, will pay all expenses incident to the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, filing and printing of the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, the Prospectus, any free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of, used by, or referred to by the Company (including financial statements and any schedules or exhibits) and of each amendment or supplement thereto, including the filing fees payable to the Commission relating to the Securities (within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1), if applicable), and the delivery to the Underwriters of copies of each, (ii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of this Agreement, the DTC Agreement, the Indenture and such other documents as may be required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale and delivery of the Notes and the Guarantees, (iii) the preparation, issuance and delivery of the certificates for the Notes and the Guarantees to the Underwriters, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Company's and the Guarantors' counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Notes and the Guarantees under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(g) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (vi) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture, the Notes and the Guarantees, (vii) the filing fees incident to, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters in connection with, the review by The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (the "FINRA") of the terms of the sale of the Notes and the Guarantees, if any, (viii) any fees payable in connection with the rating of the Securities and (ix) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Underwriters of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto.
Expenses
          (b) . If this Agreement is terminated by the Representatives in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 10(a)(i), 10(a)(ii) or
Termination of Agreement
Section 12 hereof, the Company and the Guarantors, jointly and severally, shall reimburse the Underwriters for all of their out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Underwriters.
          SECTION 5. . The obligations of the several Underwriters hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors contained in Section 1(a) hereof or in certificates of any officer of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company and the Guarantors of their covenants and other obligations hereunder and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of Underwriters' Obligations
          (a) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Shearman & Sterling LLP, counsel for the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit A hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for the Company
          (b) . At the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of William J. O'Shaughnessy, Assistant General Counsel of the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letters for each of the other Underwriters to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto.
Opinion of Assistant General Counsel of the Company
          (c) . At Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of the Closing Time, of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters. In giving such opinion such counsel may rely, as to all matters governed by the laws of jurisdictions other than the law of the State of New York and the federal law of the United States and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, upon the opinions of counsel satisfactory to the Representatives. Such counsel may also state that, insofar as such opinion involves factual matters, they have relied, to the extent they deem proper, upon certificates of officers of the Company and the Subsidiaries and certificates of public officials.
Opinion of Counsel for the Underwriters
          (d) . At the Closing Time, (i) the Prospectus, as it may then be amended or supplemented, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, shall not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (ii) there shall not have been, since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Time of Sale Prospectus, any material adverse change in the business, financial condition, operations, cash flow or business prospects of the Company and of the Subsidiaries, considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business; (iii) the Company and the Guarantors shall have complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to the Closing Time; and (iv) the representations and warranties of the Company and the Guarantors in Section 1(a) shall be accurate and true and correct as though expressly made at and as of the Closing Time. The
Officers' Certificate
Representatives shall have received a certificate of Robert A. Hagemann, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company and Robert O'Keef, Vice President and Treasurer of the Company, dated as of Closing Time, to such effect.
          (e) . The Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the 1933 Act within the applicable time period prescribed for such filing by the rules and regulations under the 1933 Act; the final term sheet substantially in the form of Schedule C-2 hereto, and any material required to be filed by the Company pursuant to Rule 433(d) under the 1933 Act, shall have been filed with the Commission within the applicable time periods prescribed for such filings by Rule 433; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceeding for that purpose shall have been initiated or, to the Company's knowledge, threatened by the Commission and no notice of objection of the Commission to the use of the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) under the 1933 Act shall have been received; no stop order suspending or preventing the use of the Prospectus or any issuer free writing prospectus shall have been initiated or threatened by the Commission; and all requests for additional information on the part of the Commission shall have been complied with to the Representatives' reasonable satisfaction.
Prospectus, Final Term Sheet and Free Writing Prospectus
          (f) . At each of the time of the execution of this Agreement and the Closing Time, the Representatives shall have received from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP letters with respect to the Company dated the date hereof or the Closing Time, as the case may be, in form and substance satisfactory to the Representatives or to counsel for the Underwriters and to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, together with signed or reproduced copies of such letter for each of the other Underwriters, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to Underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information of the Company contained in the Registration Statement, the Time of Sale Prospectus and the Prospectus; that the letter delivered at the Closing Time shall use a "cut-off date" no more than three business days prior to the Closing Time.
Comfort Letters
provided
          (g) . At Closing Time, the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) shall be rated at investment grade by Moody's, S&P and Fitch and the Company and the Guarantors shall have delivered to the Representatives a letter dated the Closing Time, from each such rating agency, or other evidence satisfactory to the Representatives, confirming that the Notes and the Guarantees have such ratings; and since the date of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred a downgrading in, or withdrawal of, the rating assigned to the Notes and the Guarantees or any of the Company's and the Guarantors' other debt securities or debt instruments by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization", as that term is defined by the Commission for purposes of Rule 436(g)(2) under the 1933 Act, and no such organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review its rating of the Notes and the Guarantees or any of the Company's and the Guarantors' other debt securities or debt instruments.
Maintenance of Rating
          (h) . At or prior to the Closing Time, the Company and the Trustee shall have executed and delivered the Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture.
Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture
          (i) . At Closing Time, counsel for the Underwriters shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require (including any consents under any agreements to which the Company is a party) for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Notes and the Guarantees as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Company and the Guarantors in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes and the Guarantees as herein contemplated shall be satisfactory in form and substance to the Representatives and counsel for the Underwriters.
Additional Documents
          (j) . If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Representatives by notice to the Company at any time at or prior to Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement
          SECTION 6. . Each Underwriter severally covenants with the Company and the Guarantors not to take any action that would result in the Company being required to file with the Commission under Rule 433(d) a free writing prospectus prepared by or on behalf of such Underwriter that otherwise would not be required to be filed by the Company thereunder, but for the action of the Underwriter.
Covenants of the Underwriters
          SECTION 7. .
Indemnification
          (a) . The Company and each of the Guarantors, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter and each person, if any, who controls any Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act to the extent and in the manner set forth in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) below, as follows:
Indemnification of the Underwriters
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company or the Guarantors by any Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
provided
however
          (b) . Each Underwriter severally agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Guarantors, their directors and officers, and each person, if any, who controls the Company or any Guarantor within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Registration Statement, any preliminary prospectus, the Time of Sale Prospectus, any issuer free writing prospectus or the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company and the Guarantors by such Underwriter through the Representatives expressly for use therein.
Indemnification of Company and Guarantors, Directors and Officers
          (c) . Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(a) above, counsel to such indemnified parties shall be selected by the Representatives, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 7(b) above, counsel to such indemnified parties shall be selected by the Company. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental
Actions against Parties; Notification
provided
however
agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 7 or Section 8 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
          (d) . If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 7(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 60 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 45 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party for the indemnified party's reasonable fees and expenses of counsel in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (A) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (B) provides written notice to the indemnified party disputing the unpaid balance in good faith and substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement, subject to provision of notice by the indemnified party in accordance with (i) and (ii) above.
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse
          SECTION 8. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 7 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand from the offering of the Notes and the Guarantees pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and of the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
Contribution
          The relative benefits received by the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Notes and the Guarantees pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Notes and the Guarantees pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Company and the Guarantors and the total discount received by the Underwriters, in each case as set forth on the cover of the
Prospectus bear to the aggregate initial offering prices of the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) as set forth on such cover of the Prospectus.
          The relative fault of the Company and the Guarantors on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Guarantors, or by the Underwriters, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
          The Company, the Guarantors and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 8. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 8 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 8, no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) sold by it exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
          No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
          For purposes of this Section 8, (a) each person, if any, who controls an Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Underwriter, and (b) each director of the Company and each Guarantor, and each person, if any, who controls the Company and each Guarantor, as the case may be, within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company and each Guarantor. The Underwriters' respective obligations to contribute pursuant to this Section 8 are several in proportion to the principal amount of Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) set forth opposite their respective names in Schedule A hereto and not joint.
          SECTION 9. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Company or any of the Subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Underwriter or controlling person, or by or on behalf of the Company or any Guarantor, and
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
shall survive delivery of the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) to the Underwriters.
          SECTION 10. .
Termination of Agreement
          (a) . The Representatives may terminate this Agreement, by notice to the Company, at any time at or prior to the Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Time of Sale Prospectus, any material adverse change in the condition (financial or otherwise), earnings, business affairs or business prospects of the Company and the Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there shall have occurred a downgrading in the rating of the Company's debt securities by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or if such rating organization shall have publicly announced that it has under surveillance or review, with possible negative implications, its rating of the Company's debt securities or (iii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impracticable to market the Notes and the Guarantees or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Notes and the Guarantees, or (iv) if trading in any securities of the Company has been suspended or limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the New York Stock Exchange or on the NASDAQ Global Select Market has been suspended or limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the FINRA or any other governmental authority, or (v) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
Termination; General
          (b) . If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities
          SECTION 11. . If one or more of the Underwriters shall fail at Closing Time to purchase the Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) which it or they are obligated to purchase under this Agreement (the "Defaulted Securities"), the Representatives shall have the right, but not the obligation, within 24 hours thereafter, to make arrangements for one or more of the non-defaulting Underwriters, or any other underwriters, to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Defaulted Securities in such amounts as may be agreed upon and upon the terms herein set forth; if, however, the Representatives shall not have completed such arrangements within such 24-hour period, then:
Default by One or More of the Underwriters
          No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve any defaulting Underwriters from liability in respect of its default.
          In the event of any such default which does not result in a termination of this Agreement, either (i) the Representatives or (ii) the Company shall have the right to postpone the Closing Time for a period not exceeding seven days in order to effect any required changes in the Registration Statement, in the Time of Sale Prospectus, in the Prospectus or in any other documents or arrangements. As used herein, the term "Underwriters" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section 11.
          SECTION 12. . If the Company and the Guarantors shall fail at Closing Time to sell the number of Notes (including the Guarantees attached thereto) that they are obligated to sell hereunder, then this Agreement shall terminate without any liability on the part of any non-defaulting party; , , that the provisions of Sections 1, 4, 7, 8 and 9 shall remain in full force and effect. No action taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve the Company or the Guarantors from liability, if any, in respect of such default.
Default by the Company and the Guarantors
provided
however
          SECTION 13. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Underwriters shall be directed to Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036, attention of Investment Banking Division, with a copy to Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP, One New York Plaza, New York, New York 10004, attention of Stuart H. Gelfond, Esq.; and notices to the Company shall be directed to it at Three Giralda Farms, Madison, New Jersey 07940, attention of Assistant General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, with a copy to Shearman & Sterling LLP, 599 Lexington Avenue, New York, New York 10022, attention of Stephen T. Giove, Esq.
Notices
          SECTION 14. . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors and their respective successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 7 and 8 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for
Parties
the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Notes and Guarantees from any Underwriters shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
          SECTION 15. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES THEREOF. SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY HEREIN REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
Governing Law and Time
          SECTION 16. . The Article, Section and subsection headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
          SECTION 17. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other section, paragraph or provision hereof. If any section, paragraph or provision of this Agreement is for any reason determined to be invalid or unenforceable, there shall be deemed to be made such minor changes (and only such minor changes) as are necessary to make it valid and enforceable.
Partial Unenforceability
          SECTION 18. Each of the Company and the Guarantors acknowledges and agrees that: (i) the purchase and sale of the Securities pursuant to this Agreement, including the determination of the offering price of the Securities and any related discounts and commissions, is an arm's-length commercial transaction between the Company and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the several Underwriters, on the other hand, and the Company and the Guarantors are capable of evaluating and understanding and understand and accept the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) in connection with each transaction contemplated hereby and the process leading to such transaction each Underwriter is and has been acting solely as a principal and is not the agent or fiduciary of the Company, Guarantors or their respective affiliates, stockholders, creditors or employees or any other party; (iii) no Underwriter has assumed or will assume an advisory or fiduciary responsibility in favor of the Company and the Guarantors with respect to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or the process leading thereto (irrespective of whether such Underwriter has advised or is currently advising the Company and the Guarantors on other matters) or any other obligation to the Company and the Guarantors except the obligations expressly set forth in this Agreement; (iv) the several Underwriters and their respective affiliates may be engaged in a broad range of transactions that involve interests that differ from those of the Company and the Guarantors and that the several Underwriters have no obligation to disclose any of such interests by virtue of any fiduciary or advisory relationship; and (v) the Underwriters have not provided any legal, accounting, regulatory or tax advice with respect to the offering contemplated hereby and the Company and the Guarantors have consulted their own legal, accounting, regulatory and tax advisors to the extent they deemed appropriate. The Company and the Guarantors hereby waive and release, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims that the Company and the Guarantors may have against the several Underwriters with respect to any breach or alleged breach of fiduciary duty.
No Advisory or Fiduciary Responsibility
.
          SECTION 19. .
General Provisions
          (a) . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement of the parties to this Agreement and supersedes all prior written or oral and all contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings and negotiations with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each one of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement may not be amended or modified unless in writing by all of the parties hereto, and no condition herein (express or implied) may be waived unless waived in writing by each party whom the condition is meant to benefit. The section headings herein are for the convenience of the parties only and shall not affect the construction or interpretation of this Agreement.
General
          (b) In accordance with the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)), the Underwriters are required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies their respective clients, including the Company, which information may include the name and address of their respective clients, as well as other information that will allow the Underwriters to properly identify their respective clients.
USA Patriot Act.
          If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Company and the Guarantors a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement among the Underwriters, the Company and the Guarantors in accordance with its terms.
Term sheet
To prospectus dated February 7, 2011 and preliminary prospectus supplement dated March 21, 2011
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus and a prospectus supplement) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus and the prospectus supplement in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus and the prospectus supplement if you request it by calling Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll free at 1-866-718-1649; Goldman, Sachs & Co. toll free at 1-866-471-2526; RBS Securities Inc. toll free at 1-866-884-2071; J.P. Morgan Securities LLC collect at 1-212-834-4533 and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll free at 1-800-326-5897.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus and a prospectus supplement) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus and the prospectus supplement in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus and the prospectus supplement if you request it by calling Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll free at 1-866-718-1649; Goldman, Sachs & Co. toll free at 1-866-471-2526; RBS Securities Inc. toll free at 1-866-884-2071; J.P. Morgan Securities LLC collect at 1-212-834-4533 and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll free at 1-800-326-5897.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus and a prospectus supplement) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus and the prospectus supplement in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus and the prospectus supplement if you request it by calling Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll free at 1-866-718-1649; Goldman, Sachs & Co. toll free at 1-866-471-2526; RBS Securities Inc. toll free at 1-866-884-2071; J.P. Morgan Securities LLC collect at 1-212-834-4533 and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll free at 1-800-326-5897.
The issuer has filed a registration statement (including a prospectus and a prospectus supplement) with the SEC for the offering to which this communication relates. Before you invest, you should read the prospectus and the prospectus supplement in that registration statement and other documents the issuer has filed with the SEC for more complete information about the issuer and this offering. You may get these documents for free by visiting EDGAR on the SEC Web site at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the issuer, any underwriter or any dealer participating in the offering will arrange to send you the prospectus and the prospectus supplement if you request it by calling Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll free at 1-866-718-1649; Goldman, Sachs & Co. toll free at 1-866-471-2526; RBS Securities Inc. toll free at 1-866-884-2071; J.P. Morgan Securities LLC collect at 1-212-834-4533 and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll free at 1-800-326-5897.
Any disclaimers or other notices that may appear below are not applicable to this communication and should be disregarded. Such disclaimers or other notices were automatically generated as a result of this communication being sent via Bloomberg or another email system.

Exhibit 4.15
CONFORMED COPY
                    SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of March 24, 2011 among QUEST DIAGNOSTICS INCORPORATED, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (the "Trustee"), and the subsidiary guarantors party hereto.
                    WHEREAS, the Company, the Trustee and the Initial Subsidiary Guarantors executed and delivered an Indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 (the "Base Indenture"), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 ( the "First Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 26, 2001 (the "Second Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 4, 2002 (the "Third Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 19, 2003 (the "Fourth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 16, 2004 (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 31, 2005 (the "Sixth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 21, 2005 (the "Seventh Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of July 31, 2006 (the "Eighth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by a Ninth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 30, 2006 (the "Ninth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007 (the "Tenth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007 (the "Eleventh Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 25, 2007 (the "Twelfth Supplemental Indenture"), as further supplemented by the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 17, 2009 (the "Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture"), and as further supplemented by this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture (the "Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture" and, collectively, the "Indenture"), to provide for the issuance by the Company from time to time of Securities to be issued in one or mores series as provided in the Indenture;
                    WHEREAS, the issuance and sale of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of a new series of the Company's 3.200% Senior Notes due April 1, 2016 guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors (the "Notes due 2016"), $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of a new series of the Company's 4.700% Senior Notes due April 1, 2021 guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors (the "Notes due 2021") and $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of a new series of the Company's Floating Rate Senior Notes due March 24, 2014 guaranteed by the Subsidiary Guarantors (the "Floating Rate Notes", and together with the Notes due 2016 and the Notes due 2021, the "Notes") pursuant to this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture have been authorized by resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors;
                    WHEREAS, the Company desires to issue and sell $1,050,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Notes pursuant to this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture on the date hereof;
                    WHEREAS, Sections 901(7) and 901(9) of the Indenture provide that without the consent of the Holders of the Securities of any series issued under the Indenture, the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into one or more indentures supplemental to the Indenture to (a) establish the form or terms of Securities of any series and any related coupons as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, including the provisions and procedures relating to Securities convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company) and (b) cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under the Base Indenture;
                    WHEREAS, the Company and the Subsidiary Guarantors desire to establish the form and terms of the Notes;
                    WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture a valid supplement to the Indenture according to its terms and the terms of the Indenture have been done;
                    NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises stated herein and the purchase of the Notes by the Holders thereof, the parties hereto herby enter into this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Notes, as follows:
                    SECTION 1.1. .
Certain Terms Defined in the Indenture
                    All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the Indenture, as amended hereby, other than such terms as are defined in the Second Supplemental Indenture.
                    SECTION 1.2. .
Definitions
                    Except as may be provided in a Future Supplemental Indenture, for the benefit of the Holders of the Notes, Section 101 of the Indenture shall be amended by adding the following new definitions:
          "Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act)(other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries) becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of
the Voting Stock of the Company or other Voting Stock into which the Voting Stock of the Company is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (2) the direct or indirect sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or more series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and the assets of its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to one or more "persons" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act)(other than the Company or one of its subsidiaries); or (3) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Company are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control if (1) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (2)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Voting Stock of the Company immediately prior to that transaction or (B) immediately following that transaction no person (other than a holding company satisfying the requirements of this sentence) is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of such holding company.
          "Change of Control Triggering Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
           "Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of such Board of Directors on the date the Notes were issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to such Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of such Board of Directors at the time of such nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to such nomination).
          "Existing Receivables Credit Facility" means the receivables-backed financing transaction pursuant to (1) the Third Amended and Restated Receivables Sales Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2008 between the Company and each of its direct and indirect wholly owned Subsidiaries that is a seller thereunder, and Quest Diagnostics Receivables Inc., as the buyer, (2) the Fourth Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement, dated as of June 11, 2008, as amended, among Quest Diagnostics Receivables Inc., as borrower, the Company, as initial servicer, each of the lenders from time to time party thereto, and Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi, as administrative agent, and (3) the various related ancillary documents.
          "Fitch" means Fitch Ratings.
          "Global Notes" means, individually and collectively, each of Global Notes, substantially in the form of Exhibits A, B and C.
          "Global Notes Legend" means the legend set forth in Section 204 to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
          "Initial Subsidiary Guarantors" means each of American Medical Laboratories Incorporated, AmeriPath Consolidated Labs, Inc., AmeriPath Florida, LLC, AmeriPath Group
Holdings, Inc., AmeriPath Holdings, Inc., AmeriPath Hospital Services Florida, LLC, AmeriPath Indiana, LLC, AmeriPath Intermediate Holdings, Inc., AmeriPath Kentucky, Inc., AmeriPath Marketing USA, Inc., AmeriPath Michigan, Inc., AmeriPath Mississippi, Inc., AmeriPath New York, LLC, AmeriPath North Carolina, Inc., AmeriPath Ohio, Inc., AmeriPath Pennsylvania, LLC, AmeriPath Philadelphia, Inc., AmeriPath SC, Inc., AmeriPath Texas, L.P., AmeriPath Wisconsin, LLC, AmeriPath Youngstown Labs, Inc., AmeriPath, Inc., AmeriPath, LLC, Anatomic Pathology Services, Inc., API No. 2, LLC, APL Properties Limited Liability Company, Arizona Pathology Group, Inc., Central Plains Holdings, Inc., Dermatopathology Services, Inc., Diagnostic Pathology Management Services, LLC, Diagnostic Reference Services Inc., DPD Holdings, Inc., Enterix Inc., ExamOne World Wide of NJ, Inc., ExamOne World Wide, Inc., Focus Diagnostics, Inc., Focus Technologies Holding Company, HemoCue, Inc., Kailash B. Sharma, M.D., Inc., LabOne of Ohio, Inc., LabOne, Inc., MedPlus, Inc., MetWest Inc., Nichols Institute Diagnostics, Ocmulgee Medical Pathology Association, Inc., O'Quinn Medical Pathology Association, LLC, Osborn Group Inc., Pathology Building Partnership, PCA of Denver, Inc., PCA of Nashville, Inc., Peter G. Klacsmann, M.D., Inc., Quest Diagnostics Clinical Laboratories, Inc., Quest Diagnostics Finance Incorporated, Quest Diagnostics Holdings Incorporated, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (MD), Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (MI), Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (NV), Quest Diagnostics Investments Incorporated, Quest Diagnostics LLC (CT), Quest Diagnostics LLC (IL), Quest Diagnostics LLC (MA), Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute (f/k/a Quest Diagnostics Incorporated) (CA), Quest Diagnostics Nichols Institute, Inc., Quest Diagnostics of Pennsylvania Inc., Regional Pathology Consultants, LLC, Rocky Mountain Pathology, LLC, Sharon G. Daspit, M.D., Inc., Shoals Pathology Associates, Inc., Specialty Laboratories, Inc., Strigen, Inc., TID Acquisition Corp., and Unilab Corporation.
          "Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any additional rating agency or Rating Agencies selected by the Company.
          "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
          "Rating Agencies" means (1) each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; and (2) if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to rate the Notes or fails to make a rating of the Notes publicly available for reasons outside of the control of the Company, a "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" within the meaning of Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by the Company (as certified by a resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company) as a replacement agency for Moody's, S&P or Fitch, or all of them, as the case may be.
          "Rating Event" means the rating on the Notes is lowered by at least two of the Rating Agencies and the Notes are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the Rating Agencies on any day within the 60-day period (which 60-day period shall be extended so long as the rating of the Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) after the earlier of (1) the occurrence of a Change of Control and (2) public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control or the intention of the Company to effect a Change of Control; provided, however, that a Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating will not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus will not be deemed a Rating Event for purposes of the definition of
Change of Control Triggering Event) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the trustee in writing at its request or the request of the Company that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control has occurred at the time of the Rating Event).
          "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
          "Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of such person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of such person.
                    SECTION 1.3. .
Other Definitions
                    SECTION 2.1. .
Form and Dating
                    The Notes due 2016, the applicable Subsidiary Guarantees and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto. The Notes due 2021, the applicable Subsidiary Guarantees and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto. The Floating Rate Notes, the applicable Subsidiary Guarantees and the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be substantially in the form of attached hereto. The Notes shall be executed on behalf
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
Exhibit C
of the Company by its Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Controller or the Treasurer, and the Secretary, under its corporate seal reproduced thereon. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rules or usage. Each Note shall be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes and any beneficial interest in the Notes shall be in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
                    The terms and notations contained in the Notes shall constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby.
                    SECTION 2.2. .
Terms of the Notes
                              For purposes of Section 2.2(b) of this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, "Business Day" means any day (1) that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that is not a day on which banking institutions are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close in The City of New York and, for any place of payment outside of The City of New York, in such place of payment, and (2) that is also a "London business day," which is a day on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
                              For purposes of Section 2.2(b) of this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, the term "Calculation Agent" means The Bank of New York Mellon, or its successor appointed by the Company. All of the benefits, protections, privileges, immunities, indemnities, and rights under the Indenture that apply to the Trustee also apply to The Bank of New York Mellon, in its individual capacity and in its capacity as Calculation Agent hereunder.
                              For purposes of Section 2.2(b) of this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, the term "Maturity," means the date on which the principal of such Floating Rate Note or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein provided or as provided in the Indenture, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption, repayment or otherwise.
                    SECTION 2.5.
Application of the Article of the Indenture Regarding Redemption of Securities.
                    SECTION 2.6.
Application of the Article of the Indenture Relating to a Sinking Fund.
                    Except as may be provided in a Future Supplemental Indenture, none of the Notes shall be entitled to the benefit of any sinking fund, and the provisions of the Indenture relating to a sinking fund, including Article Twelve and Subsection (3) of Section 501 of the Indenture, shall not apply to any of the Notes.
                    SECTION 2.7.
Additional Events of Default.
                    Except as may be provided by a Future Supplemental Indenture, for the benefit of the holders of the Notes, Section 501(7)(A) of the Indenture shall be amended by deleting the words "$100 million" in the second line thereof and, in their place, adding the words "$200 million;" and Section 501(7)(B) of the Indenture shall be amended by deleting the words "$100 million" in the sixth line thereof and, in their place, adding the words "$200 million."
                    SECTION 2.8.
Application of the Article of the Indenture Regarding Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance.
                    Except as may be provided by a Future Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of Article Fourteen of the Indenture, including the provisions relating to defeasance and covenant defeasance of the Securities under Sections 1402 and 1403, respectively, of the Indenture shall apply to the Notes.
                    SECTION 2.9.
Application of the Article of the Indenture Regarding Repayment at the Option of Holders.
                    Except as may be provided by a Future Supplemental Indenture, the provisions of Article Thirteen of the Indenture shall not apply to the Notes.
                    SECTION 2.10.
Limitations on Subsidiary Indebtedness and Preferred Stock.
                    SECTION 3.1. .
Governing Law
                    This Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture and the Notes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws. This Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are required to be part of this Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
                    SECTION 3.2. .
Separability
                    In case any provision in this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture or in any Securities, including the Notes, shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
                    SECTION 3.3. .
Counterparts
                    This Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same Supplemental Indenture.
                    SECTION 3.4. .
Ratification
                    The Base Indenture, as supplemented and amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture and this Fourteenth
Supplemental Indenture is in all respects ratified and confirmed. The Base Indenture, the First Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture and this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture shall be read, taken and construed as one and the same instrument. All provisions included in this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture supersede any conflicting provisions included in the Base Indenture unless not permitted by law. The Trustee accepts the trusts created by the Indenture, as supplemented by this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture, and agrees to perform the same upon the terms and conditions of the Indenture, as supplemented by this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture.
                    SECTION 3.5. .
Waiver of Jury Trial
                    EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
                    SECTION 3.6. .
Force Majeure
                    In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
                    SECTION 3.7. .
Effectiveness
                    The provisions of this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture shall become effective as of the date hereof.
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
EXHIBIT A
                    [:                     THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
The following legends apply only if the Note is a Global Note
                    UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IN EXCHANGE FOR THIS CERTIFICATE IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
74834L AR1
CUSIP:
                    Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $300,000,000 on April 1, 2016 (the "Stated Maturity") (except to the extent redeemed or repaid prior to the Stated Maturity) and to pay interest thereon from March 24, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for semi-annually at the rate of 3.200% per annum, on April 1 and October 1, commencing with October 1, 2011, on the Stated Maturity and on any Redemption Date (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
                    . The interest so payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date, will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day, as defined in the Indenture), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date (the "Regular Record Date"). Any such interest not punctually paid or duly provided for ("Defaulted Interest") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such Defaulted Interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date (the "Special Record Date") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than ten days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of Interest
                    . Payment of interest on this Note will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; ,, that each installment of interest and payment of principal on this Notes may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States. Payment of the principal of this Note on the Stated Maturity will be made against presentation of this Note at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the
Place of Payment
provided
however
United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
                    . In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Stated Maturity shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of the Indenture or this Note), payment of principal or interest, if any, need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, or at Stated Maturity; that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
Time of Payment
provided
                    . The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Note and by acceptance hereof each Holder of this Note agrees to be subject to and bound by the terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
Legends
                    . This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "Securities") of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to a series of which this Note is a part), to which Base Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, including the supplemental indenture dated March 24, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of a duly authorized series of Securities designated as "3.200% Senior Notes due 2016" (collectively, the "Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $300,000,000.
General
                    . The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of Notes of this series, issue additional Notes (the "Additional Notes") of this series having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes of this series. Any Additional Notes of this series and the Notes of this series will constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the Notes of this series shall include the Additional Notes unless the context otherwise requires.
Further Issuance
                    [:
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note
                    . This Note is a Global Note representing $300,000,000 of the Notes. This Note is a "book entry" Note and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository "), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Note will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Note is registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal and interest on this Note by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Depository or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the
Book-Entry
final payment on this Note will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Note at its Corporate Trust Office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.]
                    . This Note is entitled to the benefits of the Subsidiary Guarantees by each of the Subsidiary Guarantors of the due and punctual payment and performance of the Guarantor Obligations made in favor of the Trustee for the benefit of the Holder of this Note. Reference is hereby made to Article Sixteen of the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations under the Guarantees of each of the Guarantors.
Guarantees
                    . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
                    . The Notes of this series are not subject to any sinking fund. The Notes of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price, calculated pursuant to the Indenture, together with accrued interest thereon, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the Regular Record Date that is prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest on the relevant Interest Payment Date). In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Notes of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee by such methods, as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem fair and appropriate. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of this Note.
Optional Redemption
                    . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes on the terms set forth in the Indenture.
Redemption upon a Change of Control Triggering Event
                    . The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Note and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
                    . The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the
Modification and Waivers; Obligations of the Company Absolute
Indenture. Furthermore, provisions in the Indenture permit the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of individual series to waive on behalf of all of the Holders of Securities of such individual series certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Note and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
                    No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
                    . As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Note of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceedings as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Note on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
Limitation on Suits
provided
however
                    . The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Authorized Denominations
                    . As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
Registration of Transfer or Exchange
                    As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
                    [
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note:
                    . If the Depository is at any time unwilling, unable or ineligible to continue as depository and a successor depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days or an Event of Default under the Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the Company will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange for each Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine not to have Securities represented by a Global Security and, in such event, will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange in whole for the Global Security representing such Security. In any such instance, an owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Security will be entitled to physical delivery in certificated form of Securities equal in principal amount to such beneficial interest and to have such Securities registered in its name. Securities so issued in certificated form will be issued in denominations of $2,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000 and will be issued in registered form only, without coupons.
This Note is a Global Security
                    No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
                    Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.]
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    
. This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
                    Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated: March 24, 2011
                    This is one of the Notes of the series designated and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture, as such is supplemented by the within-mentioned Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture.
                    FOR VALUE RECEIVED, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors (as such term is defined in the Indenture, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture and the Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture), hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to the Holder of the Note upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed (the "Note") and to the Trustee on behalf of the Holder, the prompt payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest (including, in case of default, interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on overdue interest and including any additional interest required to be paid according to the terms of the Notes) on the Note, when due (whether at Stated Maturity, upon Redemption, upon acceleration, upon tender for repayment at the option of the Company), according to the terms hereof and the terms of the Indenture (the "Guarantor Obligations"). This Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection and is a continuing guarantee and shall apply to all Guarantor Obligations whenever arising.
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder are absolute and unconditional irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Indenture or this Note, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors agrees that this Guarantee may be enforced by the Holder of this Note without the necessity at any time of proceeding against the Company or any other Person (including a co-guarantor) or to pursue any other remedy or enforce any other right. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Holder of this Note from suing on this Note or the Indenture or from exercising any other rights available under this Note and the Indenture, and the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights and shall not constitute a discharge of any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder and under the Indenture; it being the purpose and the intent of each Subsidiary Guarantor that its obligations under this Note and under the Indenture shall be absolute, independent and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Neither any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Company or by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. Each Subsidiary Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Guarantor Obligations or acceptance of this Guarantee. The Guarantor Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guarantee.
Obligations Unconditional and Absolute
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of the Note against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by such Subsidiary Guarantor on account of the Note or the Indenture; , , that such Subsidiary Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of, or
Subrogation
provided
however
based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of (or premium, if any, on) and interest on all Notes of this series shall have been indefeasibly paid in full.
                    . Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that (a) the time or place of payment of the Guarantor Obligations may be changed or extended, in whole or in part, to a time certain or otherwise, and may be renewed or accelerated, in whole or in part; (b) the Company and any other party liable for payment under the Indenture or under the Note may be granted indulgences generally; (c) any of the provisions of this Note or the Indenture may be modified, amended or waived; and (d) any party (including any Subsidiary Guarantor) liable for the payment under this Note or under the Indenture may be granted indulgences or be released; all without notice to or further assent by such Subsidiary Guarantor, which shall remain bound thereon, notwithstanding any such exchange, compromise, surrender, extension, renewal, acceleration, modification, indulgence or release.
Modifications
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby waives to the fullest extent permitted by law: (a) notice of acceptance of this Guarantee by the Holder of this Note; (b) presentment and demand for payment or performance of any of the Guarantor Obligations; (c) protest and notice of dishonor or default with respect to the Guarantor Obligations; (d) all other notices to which such Subsidiary Guarantor might otherwise be entitled.
Waiver of Rights
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and under Article Sixteen shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Guarantor Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder of the Notes of this series, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise.
Reinstatement
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that as between each such Subsidiary Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holder and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extant under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
Remedies
                    . The Subsidiary Guarantors, in connection with payments made hereunder, shall have contribution rights against the other Subsidiary Guarantors as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and no Subsidiary Guarantor shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Guarantor Obligations have been paid in full.
Rights of Contribution
                    . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in the Indenture, to the extent the obligations of any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers) then the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state or otherwise and including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).
Limitation of Guaranty
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby covenants that its Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of its obligations contained in the Note, this Subsidiary Guarantee and pursuant to the Indenture;, , that if (a) an Subsidiary Guarantor does not guarantee any Indebtedness of the Company the amount of which, when added together with any other outstanding Indebtedness of the Company guaranteed by its Subsidiaries that are not Subsidiary Guarantors, would exceed $50 million in the aggregate, excluding the Notes of this series, and all outstanding Indebtedness of such Subsidiary Guarantor would have been permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 1011 of the Indenture measured at the time of the release and discharge as described in this paragraph, (b) the Notes of this series are defeased and discharged pursuant to Article Fourteen of the Indenture, or (c) all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor or all of the capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor is sold (including by issuance, merger, consolidation or otherwise) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, then in each case of (a), (b) or (c) above, such Subsidiary Guarantor or the corporation acquiring such assets (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor) shall be automatically and without any further action on the part of any party to the Indenture, and upon notice to the Trustee, be fully released and discharged from all its liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Indenture and this Subsidiary Guarantee of the Note, and promptly upon the request of the Company and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall execute such documents and take such other action as is reasonably requested by the Company to evidence the release and discharge of such Guarantor from all such liabilities and obligations and shall, if applicable, certify to the Company that such Subsidiary Guarantor has no liabilities or obligations resulting from a demand on such Subsidiary Guarantor's Guarantee.
Release of Guarantors
provided
however
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    . This Subsidiary Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
                    Subject to the next following paragraph, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened precedent to the creation and issuance of this Subsidiary Guarantee and to constitute the same valid obligation of each Subsidiary Guarantor have been done and performed and have happened in due compliance with all applicable laws.
Attest:
EXHIBIT B
                    [:
The following legends apply only if the Note is a Global Note
                    THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
                    UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IN EXCHANGE FOR THIS CERTIFICATE IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
74834L AS9
CUSIP:
                    Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $550,000,000 on April 1, 2021 (the "Stated Maturity") (except to the extent redeemed or repaid prior to the Stated Maturity) and to pay interest thereon from March 24, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for semi-annually at the rate of 4.700% per annum, on April 1 and October 1, commencing with October 1, 2011, on the Stated Maturity and on any Redemption Date (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
                    . The interest so payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date, will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day, as defined in the Indenture), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date (the "Regular Record Date"). Any such interest not punctually paid or duly provided for ("Defaulted Interest") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such Defaulted Interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date (the "Special Record Date") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than ten days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of Interest
                    . Payment of interest on this Note will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; ,, that each installment of interest and payment of principal on this Notes may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States. Payment of the principal of this Note on the Stated Maturity will be made against presentation of this Note at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
Place of Payment
provided
however
                    . In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Stated Maturity shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of the Indenture or this Note), payment of principal or interest, if any, need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, or at Stated Maturity; that no interest shall accrue on the amount so payable for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, or Stated Maturity, as the case may be.
Time of Payment
provided
                    . The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Note and by acceptance hereof each Holder of this Note agrees to be subject to and bound by the terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
Legends
                    . This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "Securities") of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to a series of which this Note is a part), to which Base Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, including the supplemental indenture dated March 24, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of a duly authorized series of Securities designated as "4.700% Senior Notes due 2021" (collectively, the "Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $550,000,000.
General
                    . The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of Notes of this series, issue additional Notes (the "Additional Notes") of this series having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes of this series. Any Additional Notes of this series and the Notes of this series will constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the Notes of this series shall include the Additional Notes unless the context otherwise requires.
Further Issuance
                    [:
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note
                    . This Note is a Global Note representing $550,000,000 of the Notes. This Note is a "book entry" Note and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository "), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Note will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Note is registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal and interest on this Note by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Depository or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the final payment on this Note will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Note at its Corporate Trust Office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.]
Book-Entry
                    . This Note is entitled to the benefits of the Subsidiary Guarantees by each of the Subsidiary Guarantors of the due and punctual payment and performance of the Guarantor Obligations made in favor of the Trustee for the benefit of the Holder of this Note. Reference is hereby made to Article Sixteen of the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations under the Guarantees of each of the Guarantors.
Guarantees
                    . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
                    . The Notes of this series are not subject to any sinking fund. The Notes of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price, calculated pursuant to the Indenture, together with accrued interest thereon, if any, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the Regular Record Date that is prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest on the relevant Interest Payment Date). In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Notes of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee by such methods, as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem fair and appropriate. If any Note is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Note shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Note in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of this Note.
Optional Redemption
                    . If the Company has failed to consummate the acquisition of Athena Diagnostics, Inc. on or prior to October 31, 2011, or the related Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2011, between Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware corporation and the Company (the "Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement") is terminated at any time prior thereto, then the Company must redeem all of the Notes of this series on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (as defined below) at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the date of initial issuance to, but excluding, the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). The "Special Mandatory Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of (1) November 15, 2011, if the acquisition of Athena Diagnostics, Inc. has not been completed on or prior to October 31, 2011, or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the termination of the Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement for any reason.
Special Mandatory Redemption
                    . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes on the terms set forth in the Indenture.
Redemption upon a Change of Control Triggering Event
                    . The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Note and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
                    . The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture. Furthermore, provisions in the Indenture permit the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of individual series to waive on behalf of all of the Holders of Securities of such individual series certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Note and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
Modification and Waivers; Obligations of the Company Absolute
                    No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
                    . As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Note of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceedings as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Note on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
Limitation on Suits
provided
however
                    . The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Authorized Denominations
                    . As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
Registration of Transfer or Exchange
                    As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
                    [
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note:
                    . If the Depository is at any time unwilling, unable or ineligible to continue as depository and a successor depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days or an Event of Default under the Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the Company will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange for each Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine not to have Securities represented by a Global Security and, in such event, will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange in whole for the Global Security representing such Security. In any such instance, an owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Security will be entitled to physical delivery in certificated form of Securities equal in principal amount to such beneficial interest and to have such Securities registered in its name. Securities so issued in certificated form will be issued in denominations of $2,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000 and will be issued in registered form only, without coupons.
This Note is a Global Security
                    No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
                    Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.]
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    . This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
                    Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated: March 24, 2011
                    This is one of the Notes of the series designated and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture, as such is supplemented by the within-mentioned Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture.
                    FOR VALUE RECEIVED, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors (as such term is defined in the Indenture, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture and the Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture), hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to the Holder of the Note upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed (the "Note") and to the Trustee on behalf of the Holder, the prompt payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest (including, in case of default, interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on overdue interest and including any additional interest required to be paid according to the terms of the Notes) on the Note, when due (whether at Stated Maturity, upon Redemption, upon acceleration, upon tender for repayment at the option of the Company), according to the terms hereof and the terms of the Indenture (the "Guarantor Obligations"). This Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection and is a continuing guarantee and shall apply to all Guarantor Obligations whenever arising.
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder are absolute and unconditional irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Indenture or this Note, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors agrees that this Guarantee may be enforced by the Holder of this Note without the necessity at any time of proceeding against the Company or any other Person (including a co-guarantor) or to pursue any other remedy or enforce any other right. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Holder of this Note from suing on this Note or the Indenture or from exercising any other rights available under this Note and the Indenture, and the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights and shall not constitute a discharge of any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder and under the Indenture; it being the purpose and the intent of each Subsidiary Guarantor that its obligations under this Note and under the Indenture shall be absolute, independent and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Neither any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Company or by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. Each Subsidiary Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Guarantor Obligations or acceptance of this Guarantee. The Guarantor Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guarantee.
Obligations Unconditional and Absolute
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of the Note against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by such Subsidiary Guarantor on account of the Note or the Indenture; , , that such Subsidiary Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of, or
Subrogation
provided
however
based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of (or premium, if any, on) and interest on all Notes of this series shall have been indefeasibly paid in full.
                    . Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that (a) the time or place of payment of the Guarantor Obligations may be changed or extended, in whole or in part, to a time certain or otherwise, and may be renewed or accelerated, in whole or in part; (b) the Company and any other party liable for payment under the Indenture or under the Note may be granted indulgences generally; (c) any of the provisions of this Note or the Indenture may be modified, amended or waived; and (d) any party (including any Subsidiary Guarantor) liable for the payment under this Note or under the Indenture may be granted indulgences or be released; all without notice to or further assent by such Subsidiary Guarantor, which shall remain bound thereon, notwithstanding any such exchange, compromise, surrender, extension, renewal, acceleration, modification, indulgence or release.
Modifications
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby waives to the fullest extent permitted by law: (a) notice of acceptance of this Guarantee by the Holder of this Note; (b) presentment and demand for payment or performance of any of the Guarantor Obligations; (c) protest and notice of dishonor or default with respect to the Guarantor Obligations; (d) all other notices to which such Subsidiary Guarantor might otherwise be entitled.
Waiver of Rights
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and under Article Sixteen shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Guarantor Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder of the Notes of this series, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise.
Reinstatement
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that as between each such Subsidiary Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holder and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extant under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
Remedies
                    . The Subsidiary Guarantors, in connection with payments made hereunder, shall have contribution rights against the other Subsidiary Guarantors as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and no Subsidiary Guarantor shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Guarantor Obligations have been paid in full.
Rights of Contribution
                    . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in the Indenture, to the extent the obligations of any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers) then the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state or otherwise and including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).
Limitation of Guaranty
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby covenants that its Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of its obligations contained in the Note, this Subsidiary Guarantee and pursuant to the Indenture;, , that if (a) an Subsidiary Guarantor does not guarantee any Indebtedness of the Company the amount of which, when added together with any other outstanding Indebtedness of the Company guaranteed by its Subsidiaries that are not Subsidiary Guarantors, would exceed $50 million in the aggregate, excluding the Notes of this series, and all outstanding Indebtedness of such Subsidiary Guarantor would have been permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 1011 of the Indenture measured at the time of the release and discharge as described in this paragraph, (b) the Notes of this series are defeased and discharged pursuant to Article Fourteen of the Indenture, or (c) all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor or all of the capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor is sold (including by issuance, merger, consolidation or otherwise) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, then in each case of (a), (b) or (c) above, such Subsidiary Guarantor or the corporation acquiring such assets (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor) shall be automatically and without any further action on the part of any party to the Indenture, and upon notice to the Trustee, be fully released and discharged from all its liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Indenture and this Subsidiary Guarantee of the Note, and promptly upon the request of the Company and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall execute such documents and take such other action as is reasonably requested by the Company to evidence the release and discharge of such Guarantor from all such liabilities and obligations and shall, if applicable, certify to the Company that such Subsidiary Guarantor has no liabilities or obligations resulting from a demand on such Subsidiary Guarantor's Guarantee.
Release of Guarantors
provided
however
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    . This Subsidiary Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
                    Subject to the next following paragraph, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened precedent to the creation and issuance of this Subsidiary Guarantee and to constitute the same valid obligation of each Subsidiary Guarantor have been done and performed and have happened in due compliance with all applicable laws.
Dated: March 24, 2011
EXHIBIT C
                    [:
The following legends apply only if the Note is a Global Note
                    THIS NOTE IS A GLOBAL NOTE WITHIN THE MEANING OF THE INDENTURE HEREINAFTER REFERRED TO AND IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF A DEPOSITORY OR A NOMINEE THEREOF. THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR A NOTE REGISTERED, AND NO TRANSFER OF THIS NOTE IN WHOLE OR IN PART MAY BE REGISTERED, IN THE NAME OF ANY PERSON OTHER THAN SUCH DEPOSITORY OR ITS NOMINEE EXCEPT IN THE LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES DESCRIBED IN THE INDENTURE.
                    UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT AND SUCH CERTIFICATE ISSUED IN EXCHANGE FOR THIS CERTIFICATE IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO., OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY, ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL, SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN.]
74834L AT7
CUSIP:
                    Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $200,000,000 on March 24, 2014 (the "Stated Maturity") (except to the extent redeemed or repaid prior to the Stated Maturity) and to pay interest thereon from March 24, 2011 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for quarterly at a per annum rate equal to three-month LIBOR (calculated as described in the Indenture) for the applicable Interest Reset Period or Initial Interest Period (each as defined in the Indenture) plus 0.85% (85 basis points), reset quarterly, on March 24, June 24, September 24 and December 24, commencing with June 24, 2011, on the Stated Maturity and on any Redemption Date (each such date, an "Interest Payment Date") until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.
                    . The interest so payable, and punctually paid or made available for payment, on any Interest Payment Date, will, as provided in the Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on March 9, June 9, September 9 or December 9, as the case may be (whether or not a Business Day, as defined in the Indenture), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date (the "Regular Record Date"). Any such interest not punctually paid or duly provided for ("Defaulted Interest") will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such Defaulted Interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Note (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a special record date (the "Special Record Date") for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Notes not less than ten days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with requirements of any securities exchange on which the Notes may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
Payment of Interest
                    Place of Payment. Payment of interest on this Note will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; ,, that each installment of interest and payment of principal on this Notes may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States. Payment of the principal of this Note on the Stated Maturity will be made against presentation of this Note at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that
provided
however
purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
                    . In any case where any Interest Payment Date(other than the Maturity date) is not a Business Day at the relevant place of payment, the Company will pay interest on the next day that is a Business Day at such place of payment as if payment were made on the date such payment was due, and no interest will accrue on the amounts so payable for the period from and after such date to the immediately succeeding Business Day, except that if such Business Day is in the immediately succeeding calendar month, such interest payment date (other than the Maturity date) shall be the immediately preceding Business Day. If the Maturity date of the Floating Rate Notes is not a Business Day at the relevant place of payment, the Company will pay interest, if any, and principal and premium, if any, on the next day that is a Business Day at such place of payment as if payment were made on the date such payment was due, and no interest will accrue on the amounts so payable for the period from and after such date to the immediately succeeding Business Day.
Time of Payment
                    . The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Note and by acceptance hereof each Holder of this Note agrees to be subject to and bound by the terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
Legends
                    . This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities (herein called the "Securities") of the Company, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 (the "Base Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture with respect to a series of which this Note is a part), to which Base Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto, including the supplemental indenture dated March 24, 2011 (the "Supplemental Indenture"), reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of a duly authorized series of Securities designated as "Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2014" (collectively, the "Notes"), initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $200,000,000.
General
                    . The Company may from time to time, without the consent of the Holders of Notes of this series, issue additional Notes (the "Additional Notes") of this series having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the Notes of this series. Any Additional Notes of this series and the Notes of this series will constitute a single series under the Indenture and all references to the Notes of this series shall include the Additional Notes unless the context otherwise requires.
Further Issuance
                    [:
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note
                    Book-Entry. This Note is a Global Note representing $200,000,000 of the Notes. This Note is a "book entry" Note and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company (the "Depository "), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Note will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in
excess thereof. As long as this Note is registered in the name of the Depository or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal and interest on this Note by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Depository or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the final payment on this Note will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Note at its Corporate Trust Office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.]
                    . This Note is entitled to the benefits of the Subsidiary Guarantees by each of the Subsidiary Guarantors of the due and punctual payment and performance of the Guarantor Obligations made in favor of the Trustee for the benefit of the Holder of this Note. Reference is hereby made to Article Sixteen of the Indenture for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and obligations under the Guarantees of each of the Guarantors.
Guarantees
                    . If an Event of Default with respect to the Notes shall have occurred and be continuing, the principal of the Notes of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
Events of Default
                    . The Notes of this series are not subject to any sinking fund. The notes of this series may not be redeemed prior to maturity, other than as described under "Special Mandatory Redemption."
Optional Redemption
                    . If the Company has failed to consummate the acquisition of Athena Diagnostics, Inc. on or prior to October 31, 2011, or the related Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2011, between Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc., a Delaware corporation and the Company ("the Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement") is terminated at any time prior thereto, then the Company must redeem all of the Notes of this series on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (as defined below) at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the date of initial issuance to, but excluding, the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). The "Special Mandatory Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of (1) November 15, 2011, if the acquisition of Athena Diagnostics, Inc. has not been completed on or prior to October 31, 2011, or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the termination of the Stock Purchase and Sale Agreement for any reason.
Special Mandatory Redemption
                    . Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Triggering Event, the Company shall be required to make an offer to repurchase the Notes on the terms set forth in the Indenture.
Redemption upon a Change of Control Triggering Event
                    . The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Note and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Note.
Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance
                    . The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification
Modification and Waivers; Obligations of the Company Absolute
of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series. Such amendment may be effected under the Indenture at any time by the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Outstanding Securities, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture. Furthermore, provisions in the Indenture permit the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of individual series to waive on behalf of all of the Holders of Securities of such individual series certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver shall be conclusive and binding upon the Holder of this Note and upon all future Holders of this Note and of any Note issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Note.
                    No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Note at the time, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
                    . As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Note of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series shall have made written request, and offered reasonable indemnity, to the Trustee to institute such proceedings as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Notes of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Note on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
Limitation on Suits
provided
however
                    . The Notes of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Authorized Denominations
                    . As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Notes, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
Registration of Transfer or Exchange
                    As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations herein and therein set forth, the Notes are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes of different authorized denominations, as requested by the Holders surrendering the same.
                    [
The following paragraph applies only if the Note is a Global Note:
                    . If the Depository is at any time unwilling, unable or ineligible to continue as depository and a successor depository is not appointed by the Company within 90 days or an Event of Default under the Indenture has occurred and is continuing, the Company will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange for each Global Security. In addition, the Company may at any time determine not to have Securities represented by a Global Security and, in such event, will issue Securities in certificated form in exchange in whole for the Global Security representing such Security. In any such instance, an owner of a beneficial interest in a Global Security will be entitled to physical delivery in certificated form of Securities equal in principal amount to such beneficial interest and to have such Securities registered in its name. Securities so issued in certificated form will be issued in denominations of $2,000 or any amount in excess thereof which is an integral multiple of $1,000 and will be issued in registered form only, without coupons.
This Note is a Global Security
                    No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
                    Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Holder as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.]
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    . This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
                    Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
                    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
Dated: March 24, 2011
                    This is one of the Notes of the series designated and referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture, as such is supplemented by the within-mentioned Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture.
Dated: March 24, 2011
                    FOR VALUE RECEIVED, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors (as such term is defined in the Indenture, as amended by the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, the Fifth Supplemental Indenture, the Sixth Supplemental Indenture, the Seventh Supplemental Indenture, the Eighth Supplemental Indenture, the Ninth Supplemental Indenture, the Tenth Supplemental Indenture, the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture, the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, the Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture and the Fourteenth Supplemental Indenture), hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to the Holder of the Note upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed (the "Note") and to the Trustee on behalf of the Holder, the prompt payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest (including, in case of default, interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on overdue interest and including any additional interest required to be paid according to the terms of the Notes) on the Note, when due (whether at Stated Maturity, upon Redemption, upon acceleration, upon tender for repayment at the option of the Company), according to the terms hereof and the terms of the Indenture (the "Guarantor Obligations"). This Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection and is a continuing guarantee and shall apply to all Guarantor Obligations whenever arising.
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder are absolute and unconditional irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Indenture or this Note, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors agrees that this Guarantee may be enforced by the Holder of this Note without the necessity at any time of proceeding against the Company or any other Person (including a co-guarantor) or to pursue any other remedy or enforce any other right. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Holder of this Note from suing on this Note or the Indenture or from exercising any other rights available under this Note and the Indenture, and the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights and shall not constitute a discharge of any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder and under the Indenture; it being the purpose and the intent of each Subsidiary Guarantor that its obligations under this Note and under the Indenture shall be absolute, independent and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Neither any Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under this Guarantee nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Company or by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. Each Subsidiary Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Guarantor Obligations or acceptance of this Guarantee. The Guarantor Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guarantee.
Obligations Unconditional and Absolute
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of the Note against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by such Subsidiary Guarantor on account of the Note or the Indenture; , , that such Subsidiary Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any payments arising out of, or
Subrogation
provided
however
based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of (or premium, if any, on) and interest on all Notes of this series shall have been indefeasibly paid in full.
                    . Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that (a) the time or place of payment of the Guarantor Obligations may be changed or extended, in whole or in part, to a time certain or otherwise, and may be renewed or accelerated, in whole or in part; (b) the Company and any other party liable for payment under the Indenture or under the Note may be granted indulgences generally; (c) any of the provisions of this Note or the Indenture may be modified, amended or waived; and (d) any party (including any Subsidiary Guarantor) liable for the payment under this Note or under the Indenture may be granted indulgences or be released; all without notice to or further assent by such Subsidiary Guarantor, which shall remain bound thereon, notwithstanding any such exchange, compromise, surrender, extension, renewal, acceleration, modification, indulgence or release.
Modifications
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby waives to the fullest extent permitted by law: (a) notice of acceptance of this Guarantee by the Holder of this Note; (b) presentment and demand for payment or performance of any of the Guarantor Obligations; (c) protest and notice of dishonor or default with respect to the Guarantor Obligations; (d) all other notices to which such Subsidiary Guarantor might otherwise be entitled.
Waiver of Rights
                    . The obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and under Article Sixteen shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Guarantor Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder of the Notes of this series, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise.
Reinstatement
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that as between each such Subsidiary Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holder and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extant under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
Remedies
                    . The Subsidiary Guarantors, in connection with payments made hereunder, shall have contribution rights against the other Subsidiary Guarantors as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and no Subsidiary Guarantor shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Guarantor Obligations have been paid in full.
Rights of Contribution
                    . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in the Indenture, to the extent the obligations of any Subsidiary Guarantor shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers) then the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state or otherwise and including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).
Limitation of Guaranty
                    . Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors hereby covenants that its Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of its obligations contained in the Note, this Subsidiary Guarantee and pursuant to the Indenture;, , that if (a) an Subsidiary Guarantor does not guarantee any Indebtedness of the Company the amount of which, when added together with any other outstanding Indebtedness of the Company guaranteed by its Subsidiaries that are not Subsidiary Guarantors, would exceed $50 million in the aggregate, excluding the Notes of this series, and all outstanding Indebtedness of such Subsidiary Guarantor would have been permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 1011 of the Indenture measured at the time of the release and discharge as described in this paragraph, (b) the Notes of this series are defeased and discharged pursuant to Article Fourteen of the Indenture, or (c) all or substantially all of the assets of such Subsidiary Guarantor or all of the capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor is sold (including by issuance, merger, consolidation or otherwise) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, then in each case of (a), (b) or (c) above, such Subsidiary Guarantor or the corporation acquiring such assets (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor) shall be automatically and without any further action on the part of any party to the Indenture, and upon notice to the Trustee, be fully released and discharged from all its liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Indenture and this Subsidiary Guarantee of the Note, and promptly upon the request of the Company and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall execute such documents and take such other action as is reasonably requested by the Company to evidence the release and discharge of such Guarantor from all such liabilities and obligations and shall, if applicable, certify to the Company that such Subsidiary Guarantor has no liabilities or obligations resulting from a demand on such Subsidiary Guarantor's Guarantee.
Release of Guarantors
provided
however
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    
. This Subsidiary Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
                    Subject to the next following paragraph, each Subsidiary Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened precedent to the creation and issuance of this Subsidiary Guarantee and to constitute the same valid obligation of each Subsidiary Guarantor have been done and performed and have happened in due compliance with all applicable laws.
Dated: March 24, 2011
EXHIBIT D
                    FOR VALUE RECEIVED, each of the Subsidiary Guarantors executing this additional Subsidiary Guarantee (the "Additional Subsidiary Guarantors"), hereby fully and unconditionally guarantees, jointly and severally, together with the existing Subsidiary Guarantors (as such term is defined in the Indenture) of the Note, to the Holder of the Note upon which this additional Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed (the "Note") and to the Trustee on behalf of the Holder, the prompt payment of the principal of (and premium, if any, on) and interest (including, in case of default, interest on principal and, to the extent permitted by applicable law, on overdue interest and including any additional interest required to be paid according to the terms of the Notes) on the Note, when due (whether at Stated Maturity, upon Redemption, upon acceleration, upon tender for repayment at the option of the Company), according to the terms hereof and the terms of the Indenture (the "Guarantor Obligations"). This Guarantee is a guarantee of payment and not of collection and is a continuing guarantee and shall apply to all Guarantor Obligations whenever arising.
                    . The obligations of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder are absolute and unconditional irrespective of the value, genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Indenture or this Note, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, irrespective of any circumstance whatsoever which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a surety or guarantor. Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors agrees that this Guarantee may be enforced by the Holder of this Note without the necessity at any time of proceeding against the Company or any other Person (including a co-guarantor) or to pursue any other remedy or enforce any other right. Each of the Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees that nothing contained herein shall prevent the Holder of this Note from suing on this Note or the Indenture or from exercising any other rights available under this Note and the Indenture, and the exercise of any of the aforesaid rights and shall not constitute a discharge of any Additional Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations hereunder and under the Indenture; it being the purpose and the intent of each Additional Subsidiary Guarantor that its obligations under this Note and under the Indenture shall be absolute, independent and unconditional under any and all circumstances. Neither any Additional Subsidiary Guarantor's obligations under this Subsidiary Guarantee nor any remedy for the enforcement thereof shall be impaired, modified, changed or released in any manner whatsoever by an impairment, modification, change, release or limitation of the liability of the Company or by reason of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the Company. Each Additional Subsidiary Guarantor waives any and all notice of the creation, renewal, extension or accrual of any of the Guarantor Obligations or acceptance of this Subsidiary Guarantee. The Guarantor Obligations, and any of them, shall conclusively be deemed to have been created, contracted or incurred, or renewed, extended, amended or waived, in reliance upon this Guarantee.
Obligations Unconditional and Absolute
                    . Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors shall be subrogated to all rights of the Holder of the Note against the Company in respect of any amounts paid by such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor on account of the Note or the Indenture; ,, that such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce or to receive any
Subrogation
provided
however
payments arising out of, or based upon, such right of subrogation until the principal of (or premium, if any, on) and interest on all Notes of this series shall have been indefeasibly paid in full.
                    . Each Subsidiary Guarantor agrees that (a) the time or place of payment of the Guarantor Obligations may be changed or extended, in whole or in part, to a time certain or otherwise, and may be renewed or accelerated, in whole or in part; (b) the Company and any other party liable for payment under the Indenture or under the Note may be granted indulgences generally; (c) any of the provisions of this Note or the Indenture may be modified, amended or waived; and (d) any party (including any Subsidiary Guarantor) liable for the payment under this Note or under the Indenture may be granted indulgences or be released; all without notice to or further assent by such Subsidiary Guarantor, which shall remain bound thereon, notwithstanding any such exchange, compromise, surrender, extension, renewal, acceleration, modification, indulgence or release.
Modifications
                    . Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors hereby waives to the fullest extent permitted by law: (a) notice of acceptance of this Guarantee by the Holder of this Note; (b) presentment and demand for payment or performance of any of the Guarantor Obligations; (c) protest and notice of dishonor or default with respect to the Guarantor Obligations; (d) all other notices to which such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor might otherwise be entitled.
Waiver of Rights
                    . The obligations of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and under Article Sixteen shall be automatically reinstated if and to the extent that for any reason any payment by or on behalf of any Person in respect of the Guarantor Obligations is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder of the Notes of this series, whether as a result of any proceedings in bankruptcy or reorganization or otherwise.
Reinstatement
                    . Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors further agrees, to the fullest extent that it may lawfully do so, that as between each such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor, on the one hand, and the Holder and the Trustee, on the other hand, the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article Five of the Indenture for the purposes of this guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition extant under any applicable bankruptcy law preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby.
Remedies
                    . The Additional Guarantors, in connection with payments made hereunder, shall have contribution rights against the other Subsidiary Guarantors as permitted under applicable law. Such contribution rights shall be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the obligations of the Subsidiary Guarantors under this Note and no Additional Subsidiary Guarantor shall exercise such rights of contribution until all Guarantor Obligations have been paid in full.
Rights of Contribution
                    . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained herein or in the Indenture, to the extent the obligations of any Additional Subsidiary Guarantor shall be adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable for any reason (including, without limitation, because of any applicable state or federal law relating to fraudulent conveyances or transfers)
Limitation of Guaranty
then the obligations of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors hereunder shall be limited to the maximum amount that is permissible under applicable law (whether federal or state or otherwise and including, without limitation, the Bankruptcy Code).
                    . Each of the Additional Subsidiary Guarantors hereby covenants that its Subsidiary Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of its obligations contained in the Note, this Subsidiary Guarantee and pursuant to the Indenture;, , that if (a) an Additional Subsidiary Guarantor does not guarantee any Indebtedness of the Company the amount of which, when added together with any other outstanding Indebtedness of the Company guaranteed by its Subsidiaries that are not Subsidiary Guarantors, would exceed $50 million in the aggregate, excluding the Notes of this series, and all outstanding Indebtedness of such Subsidiary Guarantor would have been permitted to be incurred pursuant to Section 1011 of the Indenture measured at the time of the release and discharge as described in this paragraph, (b) the Notes of this series are defeased and discharged pursuant to Article Fourteen of the Indenture, or (c) all or substantially all of the assets of such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor or all of the capital stock of such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor is sold (including by issuance, merger, consolidation or otherwise) by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, then in each case of (a), (b) or (c) above, such Subsidiary Guarantor or the corporation acquiring such assets (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets or capital stock of such Subsidiary Guarantor) shall be automatically and without any further action on the part of any party to the Indenture, and upon notice to the Trustee, be fully released and discharged from all its liabilities and obligations under or in respect of the Indenture and this Subsidiary Guarantee of the Note, and promptly upon the request of the Company and at the expense of the Company, the Trustee shall execute such documents and take such other action as is reasonably requested by the Company to evidence the release and discharge of such Guarantor from all such liabilities and obligations and shall, if applicable, certify to the Company that such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor has no liabilities or obligations resulting from a demand on such Additional Subsidiary Guarantor's Guarantee.
Release of Guarantors
provided
however
                    . All terms used in this Note, which are defined in the Indenture and are not otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
Defined Terms
                    . This Subsidiary Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law
                    This Subsidiary Guarantee shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, without regard to principles of conflicts of laws.
                    Subject to the next following paragraph, each Additional Subsidiary Guarantor hereby certifies and warrants that all acts, conditions and things required to be done and performed and to have happened precedent to the creation and issuance of this Subsidiary Guarantee and to constitute the same valid obligation of each Additional Subsidiary Guarantor have been done and performed and have happened in due compliance with all applicable laws.
                    This Subsidiary Guarantee shall not be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until the certificate of authentication on the Note upon which this Subsidiary Guarantee is endorsed has been signed by the Trustee under the Indenture referred to in this Note.

Exhibit 5.1
March 25, 2011
The Board of Directors Quest Diagnostics Incorporated 3 Giralda Farms Madison, New Jersey 07940
Ladies and Gentlemen:
                    We have acted as counsel to Quest Diagnostics Incorporated, a Delaware corporation (the ""), in connection with the (i) purchase and sale of $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 3.200% Senior Notes due 2016, $550,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.700% Senior Notes due 2021, $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.750% Senior Notes due 2040 and $200,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's Floating Rate Senior Notes due 2014 (collectively, the "") and the guarantees of the Notes (collectively, the ") by the Guarantors (""), pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated as of March 21, 2011 (the ""), among the Company, the Guarantors and you; (ii) the preparation and filing by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "") of the automatic registration statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-167603) filed by the Company under the Securities Act with the Commission on June 17, 2010, as amended by post-effective amendment no. 1 thereto filed with the Commission on January 31, 2011, and as further amended by post-effective amendment No. 2 thereto filed with the Commission on February 7, 2011 (such automatic registration statement, as amended, including the information deemed to be a part thereof at the time of effectiveness pursuant to Rule 430B under the Securities Act and documents incorporated by reference therein at the time such post-effective amendment no. 2 became effective upon filing, being hereinafter referred to as the ""); (iii) the preparation and filing with the Commission of the prospectus, dated February 7, 2011, relating to the debt securities and guarantees of debt securities generally contained in the Registration Statement (the prospectus, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, being hereinafter referred to as the ""), the preliminary prospectus, dated March 21, 2011, with respect to the Notes, including the Base Prospectus, the preliminary prospectus supplement and all documents incorporated or deemed incorporated therein by reference (in the form in which it was filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b), the ""), the pricing term sheet, dated March 21, 2011, relating to the Notes in the form filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 433 under the Securities Act (the "") and the final prospectus, dated March 21, 2011, with respect to the Notes including the Base Prospectus, the final prospectus supplement and all documents incorporated or deemed incorporated therein by reference (in the form in which it was filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, the "").
Company
Notes
Guarantees
Guarantors
Underwriting Agreement
Commission
Securities Act
Registration Statement
Base Prospectus
Preliminary Prospectus
Pricing Term Sheet
Final Prospectus
                    The Notes have been issued in one or more series pursuant to an indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001 (the ""), among the Company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly, "The Bank of New York"), as trustee (the ""), as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture, dated as of June 27, 2001, among the Company, the Initial Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) party thereto as guarantors, and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a second supplemental indenture, dated as of November 26, 2001, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a third supplemental indenture, dated as of April 4, 2002, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a fourth supplemental indenture, dated as of March 19, 2003, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a fifth supplemental indenture, dated as of April 16, 2004, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantor (as defined therein) party thereto and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a sixth supplemental indenture, dated as of October 31, 2005, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a seventh supplemental indenture, dated as of November 21, 2005, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by an eighth supplemental indenture, dated as of July 31, 2006, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a ninth supplemental indenture, dated as of September 30, 2006, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a tenth supplemental indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007, among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by an eleventh supplemental indenture, dated as of June 22, 2007, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a twelfth supplemental indenture dated as of June 25, 2007, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, as further supplemented by a thirteenth supplemental indenture, dated as of November 17, 2009, among the Company, the additional Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee, and as further supplemented by a fourteenth supplemental indenture, dated as of March 24, 2011 among the Company, the Subsidiary Guarantors (as defined therein) and the Trustee (collectively, the "").
Base Indenture
Trustee
Indenture
                    In that connection, we have reviewed originals or copies of the following documents:
                    The documents described in the foregoing clauses (a) through (c) of this paragraph are collectively referred to herein as the "".
Opinion Documents
                    We have also reviewed the following:
                    "" means the federal law of the United States of America, and the law of the State of New York (including the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder or pursuant thereto), that a New York lawyer exercising customary professional diligence would reasonably be expected to recognize as being applicable to the Company or the Guarantors, the Opinion Documents or the transactions governed by the Opinion Documents, the term "Generally Applicable Law" does not include any law, rule or regulation that is applicable to the Company and the Guarantors, the Opinion Documents or such transactions solely because such law, rule or regulation is part of a regulatory regime applicable to the specific assets or business of any party to any of the Opinion Documents or any of its affiliates.
Generally Applicable Law
                    Based upon the foregoing and upon such other investigation as we have deemed necessary and subject to the qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that:
                    This opinion letter is rendered to you in connection with the filing of the Registration Statement. This opinion letter may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose without our prior written consent.
                    This opinion letter speaks only as of the date hereof. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to advise you of any development or circumstance of any kind, including any change of law or fact, that may occur after the date of this opinion letter that might affect the opinions expressed herein.
                    We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as an exhibit to your Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 21, 2011.

Exhibit 12.1

Exhibit 99.1
Quest Diagnostics Incorporated Announces Proposed Senior Notes Offering
MADISON, N.J., March 21, 2011 /PRNewswire via COMTEX/ - -- Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the Company) (NYSE: DGX), the worlds leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services, announced today that it intends to offer $1,250,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of four series of senior notes in a public offering made under a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, subject to market and other conditions. The notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior, unsecured basis by certain of the Companys domestic, wholly owned subsidiaries.
The issuance of the notes will be subject to customary closing conditions. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to fund the purchase price and related transaction costs of its acquisition of Athena Diagnostics, Inc. and to repay outstanding indebtedness under its senior unsecured revolving credit facility and secured receivables credit facility. Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Goldman, Sachs & Co., RBS Securities Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC will be joint book-running managers for the debt offering. When available, copies of the preliminary prospectus supplement and the accompanying base prospectus for the offering can be obtained from Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated toll-free at (866) 718-1649, Goldman, Sachs & Co. toll-free at (866) 471-2526, RBS Securities Inc. toll-free at (866) 884-2071, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC at (212) 834-4533 and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC toll-free at (800) 326-5897.
This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase any of these securities and shall not constitute an offer, solicitation or sale in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. This offering may be made only by means of a prospectus supplement and accompanying base prospectus.
About Quest Diagnostics
Quest Diagnostics is the worlds leading provider of diagnostic testing, information and services that patients and doctors need to make better healthcare decisions. The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic testing services through its network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff. Quest Diagnostics is a pioneer in developing innovative diagnostic tests and advanced healthcare information technology solutions that help improve patient care.
The statements in this press release which are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date that they are made and which reflect managements current estimates, projections, expectations or beliefs and which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and outcomes to be materially different. Risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the company include, but are not limited to, adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions, the competitive environment, changes in government regulations, changing relationships with customers, payers, suppliers and strategic partners and other factors discussed in Business, Risk Factors, Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results, Legal Proceedings, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk in the Companys 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Companys 2011 Current Reports on Form 8-K.
CONTACTS Kathleen Valentine, Investors, 973-520-2900 Wendy Bost, Media, 973-520-2800
SOURCE Quest Diagnostics Incorporated
 


