FILE:DGX/DGX-8K-20121116083959.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction a.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 16, 2012, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (the Company) hosted an investor meeting (Investor Day) at which management presented its views regarding, among other things, the industry and the Companys strategy and plans to drive shareholder value.  The Investor Day presentation materials are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1  99.6 and are incorporated by reference herein. 
The information in Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1  99.6, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that section, nor shall it be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act, except as otherwise stated in such filing.
Item 8.01.  Other Events
On November 16, 2012, the Company announced that it now expects to exit 2014 with run-rate savings of $600 million from the Invigorate initiative, increased from the previously announced goal of $500 million.  The Company also announced that it is seeking ways to increase the savings from the Invigorate initiative, to as much as $1 billion, and to accelerate the savings from the initiative.
In addition, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had increased its quarterly dividend to $0.30 per share from $0.17 per share, commencing with the dividend payable January 28, 2013 to holders of record of the Companys common stock on January 11, 2013. This 76% increase raises the annual dividend rate to $1.20 per share from $0.68 per share.
The Company also reiterated its expectations for 2012 results from continuing operations, before special items and before the anticipated impact of Hurricane Sandy.  The Company continues to assess the impact of Hurricane Sandy, but anticipates that the hurricane will materially impact fourth quarter results.
The Company issued a press release on November 16, 2012, discussing, among other things, the Invigorate initiative, the dividend increase and the Companys expectations for 2012 results.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.7 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
 
 
News From Quest Diagnostics
Contacts:
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
MADISON, N.J., November 16, 2012  As previously announced, Quest Diagnostics Incorporated (NYSE: DGX), the worlds leading provider of diagnostic information services, will host its Investor Day today, November 16, 2012 in New York City.
During the event, Quest Diagnostics executives will share their views of the industry and the companys strategy and plans to drive shareholder value.  Speakers will include Stephen Rusckowski, President and Chief Executive Officer; Robert Hagemann, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and several members of the companys senior management team.
As part of the program for Investor Day, Quest Diagnostics will discuss the companys refreshed vision, goals, strategy and organizational structure.  Additionally, management will discuss the companys new five-point strategic plan:
Consistent with managements previously announced intent to deliver greater cost savings in a shorter time frame, the company plans to announce it has now increased its cost savings commitment related to its Invigorate initiative by $100 million. It will indicate that it now expects to exit 2014 with run-rate savings of $600 million, increased from the previously announced goal of $500 million. Management also is now committing to deliver $500 million of savings in 2014.
In addition, Quest Diagnostics Board of Directors authorized a 76% increase in its quarterly dividend to $0.30 per share, or $1.20 per share annually, payable on January 28, 2013, to shareholders of record of Quest Diagnostics common stock on January 11, 2013. 
 
 
 
      
This dividend increase is consistent with our previously stated commitment to return the majority of our free cash flow to shareholders, underscoring confidence in our continued ability to generate strong cash flow in the future, said Mr. Rusckowski.
We are refocusing on our core diagnostic information services business and on driving operational excellence and restoring growth, continued Mr. Rusckowski.  In addition, we are pleased with progress we are making simplifying the organization, based upon the reorganization announced in October.
In addition, Quest Diagnostics reiterated its expectations for 2012 results from continuing operations, before special items and before the anticipated impact of Hurricane Sandy.  More specifically, the company expects:
Webcast Attendance
A live webcast of the event will be broadcast simultaneously on the Investor Relations page of the Quest Diagnostics website for all interested parties. To access the webcast or a replay of the event, visit: . The webcast will begin promptly at 9:00 am and conclude at 12:30 pm.  A replay will be available following the meeting.
www.QuestDiagnostics.com/investor
About Quest Diagnostics
Quest Diagnostics is the worlds leading provider of diagnostic information services that patients and doctors need to make better healthcare decisions. The company offers the broadest access to diagnostic information services through its network of laboratories and patient service centers, and provides interpretive consultation through its extensive medical and scientific staff. Quest Diagnostics is a pioneer in developing innovative diagnostic tests and advanced healthcare information technology solutions that help improve patient care. Additional company information is available at QuestDiagnostics.com.
The statements in this press release which are not historical facts may be forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date that they are made and which reflect managements current estimates, projections, expectations or beliefs and which involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results and outcomes to be materially different. Risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of the company include, but are not limited to, adverse results from pending or future government investigations, lawsuits or private actions, the competitive environment, changes in government regulations, changing relationships with customers, payers, suppliers and strategic partners and other factors discussed in Business, Risk Factors, Cautionary Factors that May Affect Future Results, Legal Proceedings, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk in the companys 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk, and Risk Factors in the companys Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and other items throughout the Form 10-K and the companys 2012 Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K.


