FILE:PAYX/PAYX-8K-20051221171657.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     Paychex, Inc.'s press release dated December 21, 2005, which reports its financial results for the three and six months ended November 30, 2005, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 7.01. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     Paychex, Inc. has furnished in Exhibit 99.2 to this Form 8-K, historical information on revenue of its Professional Employer Organization. This information is also accessible at www.paychex.com at the Investor Relations page.
EXHIBIT INDEX
     The following exhibits are furnished with this Form 8-K:
          Exhibit 99.1: Press Release of Paychex, Inc. Dated December 21, 2005.
          Exhibit 99.2: Schedule of Revenue of Professional Employer Organization.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
PAYCHEX, INC. REPORTS RECORD SECOND QUARTER RESULTS
December 21, 2005
Second Quarter Fiscal 2006 Highlights:
     ROCHESTER, NY, December 21, 2005  Paychex, Inc. (the "Company" or "Paychex") (NASDAQ:PAYX) today announced record net income of $112.6 million, or $0.30 diluted earnings per share, for the three months ended November 30, 2005 ("the second quarter"), a 30% increase over net income of $86.9 million, or $0.23 diluted earnings per share, for the same period last year. Total revenues were $399.8 million, a 15% increase over $347.3 million for the same period last year.
     "We are very pleased with the positive results achieved in our second quarter. They were in line with our expectations and position us very well to achieve our full year guidance. Client base growth and increased ancillary penetration were the key drivers for our 9% increase in second quarter Payroll service revenue. This, coupled with Major Market Services second quarter revenue growth of 26%, leaves us very optimistic about the year," commented Jonathan J. Judge, President and Chief Executive Officer of Paychex.
     Human Resource Services revenue increased 32% to $75.1 million for the second quarter. This increase reflects growth in our clients for Retirement Services and growth in client employees served by our Paychex Premier Human Resources (previously referred to as Paychex Administrative Services or "PAS") and Professional Employer Organization ("PEO") services. Retirement Services revenue increased 15% for the second quarter to $25.8 million. Administrative fee revenue from Paychex Premier increased 66% for the second quarter to $12.8 million. Revenue from our PEO products increased 37% in the second quarter to $14.3 million.
(SM)
(SM)
     We continue to leverage our business as demonstrated by a drop in total expenses in the second quarter as a percentage of total service revenues to 64%, down from 66% in the same period last year. Our investments to support revenue growth contributed to a moderate increase in total operating and selling, general and administrative expenses. For the second quarter, our operating income was $158.6 million, an increase of 25% over the same period last year.
     Increases in interest on funds held for clients and corporate investment income were attributable to average interest rate and average investment balance comparisons as follows:
 
Year-to-Date Fiscal 2006 Highlights:
     The highlights for the six months ended November 30, 2005 are as follows:
Outlook:
     Our current outlook for the full fiscal year ended May 31, 2006 is the same as provided in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2005, except for the inclusion of the effect of the Federal Funds rate increases on November 1, 2005 and December 13, 2005.
CONFERENCE CALL
     Access the webcast of the Paychex, Inc. Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call, scheduled for December 22, 2005 at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time, at www.paychex.com at the Investor Relations page. Paychex, Inc.'s news releases, current financial information, SEC filings, and investor presentations are also accessible at www.paychex.com. For more information, contact:
ABOUT PAYCHEX
     Paychex, Inc. is a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. The company offers comprehensive payroll services, including payroll processing, payroll tax administration, time and attendance solutions and employee pay services, including direct deposit, check signing, and Readychex. Human Resource Services include 401(k) plan recordkeeping, workers' compensation administration, section 125 plans, a professional employer organization, and other administrative services for business. Paychex was founded in 1971. With headquarters in Rochester, New York, the company has more than 100 offices and serves approximately 522,000 payroll clients nationwide. For more information about Paychex and our products, visit .
www.paychex.com
 
     Certain written and oral statements made by management of Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Paychex") may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "we expect," "expected to," "estimates," "estimated," "current outlook," "we look forward to," "would equate to," "projects," "projections," "projected to be," "anticipates," "anticipated," "we believe," "could be," and other similar phrases. All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will occur in the future, including statements relating to revenue growth, earnings, earnings-per-share growth, or similar projections, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. Because they are forward-looking, they should be evaluated in light of important risk factors. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following or those that are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed on July 22, 2005: changes in demand for the Company's products and services, ability to develop and market new products and services effectively, pricing changes and impact of competition, and the availability of skilled workforce; general market and economic conditions, including, among others, changes in United States employment and wage levels, changes in new hiring trends, changes in short- and long-term interest rates, and changes in the market value and the credit rating of securities held by the Company; changes in the laws regulating collection and payment of payroll taxes, professional employer organizations, and employee benefits, including 401(k) plans, workers' compensation, state unemployment, and section 125 plans; changes in technology, including use of the Internet; the possibility of failure of the Company's operating facilities, computer systems, and communication systems during a catastrophic event; the possibility of third-party service providers failing to perform their functions; the possibility of penalties and losses resulting from errors and omissions in performing services; the possible inability of clients to meet payroll obligations; the possibility of failure in internal controls or the inability to implement business processing improvements; and potentially unfavorable outcomes related to pending legal matters. All of these factors could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from its anticipated results. The information provided in this document is based upon the facts and circumstances known at this time. The Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of issuance of this release, or to reflect occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2: SCHEDULE OF REVENUE OF PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYER ORGANIZATION
In millions
PEO Revenues


