FILE:PAYX/PAYX-8K-20060328164409.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Paychex, Inc.'s press release dated March 28, 2006, which reports its financial results for the three and nine months ended February 28, 2006, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
EXHIBIT INDEX
The following exhibit is furnished with this Form 8-K:
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
PAYCHEX, INC. REPORTS RECORD THIRD QUARTER RESULTS
March 28, 2006
Third Quarter Fiscal 2006 Highlights:
     ROCHESTER, NY, March 28, 2006  Paychex, Inc. (the "Company" or "Paychex") (NASDAQ:PAYX) today announced record net income of $114.5 million, or $0.30 diluted earnings per share, for the three months ended February 28, 2006 ("the third quarter"), a 23% increase over net income of $92.8 million, or $0.24 diluted earnings per share, for the same period last year. Total revenues were $430.6 million, a 15% increase over $373.9 million for the same period last year.
     "We are very pleased with our results for the third quarter, which once again, produced record revenues and earnings. They were in line with our expectations and position us very well to achieve our full year guidance. The third quarter includes our most important selling season when we add approximately one-third of our new payroll clients for the year. We just completed an outstanding selling season and client year end which will position us for a good start in fiscal 2007," commented Jonathan J. Judge, President and Chief Executive Officer of Paychex.
     Human Resource Services revenue increased 24% to $81.9 million for the third quarter. The increase for the third quarter reflects growth in the following services: Retirement Services increased 15% to $27.6 million, administrative fee revenue from Paychex PremierHuman Resources increased 54% to $13.0 million, Professional Employer Organization services increased 9% to $17.2 million, and revenues from other Human Resource Services increased 35% to $24.1 million.
(SM)
     Growth in total expenses was 13% for the third quarter and 11% for the nine months ended February 28, 2006. The third quarter was impacted by higher commissions and bonus expenses as we exceeded our year-to-date sales targets. We also incurred higher expenses in the third quarter through our commitment to continuously improve client service by reducing the number of clients per payroll specialist. For the third quarter, our operating income was $160.6 million, an increase of 19% over the same period last year.
     Increases in interest on funds held for clients and corporate investment income were attributable to higher average interest rates and higher average investment balances, as summarized below:
 
Year-to-Date Fiscal 2006 Highlights:
     The highlights for the nine months ended February 28, 2006 are as follows:
Outlook:
     Our guidance for the full fiscal year ended May 31, 2006 is provided in our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2006 and has been updated including the effect of the Federal Funds rate increase on January 31, 2006. Total revenue growth is estimated to be in the range of 14% to 16% with net income growth expected to be in the range of 24% to 26%.
CONFERENCE CALL
     Access the webcast of the Paychex, Inc. Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call, scheduled for March 29, 2006 at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time, at at the Investor Relations page. Paychex, Inc.'s news releases, current financial information, SEC filings, and investor presentations are also accessible at . For more information, contact:
www.paychex.com
www.paychex.com
ABOUT PAYCHEX
     Paychex, Inc. is a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. The company offers comprehensive payroll services, including payroll processing, payroll tax administration and employee pay services, including direct deposit, check signing, and Readychex. Human Resource Services include 401(k) plan recordkeeping, workers' compensation administration, section 125 plans, a professional employer organization, time and attendance solutions and other administrative services for business. Paychex was founded in 1971. With headquarters in Rochester, New York, the company has more than 100 offices and serves approximately 522,000 payroll clients nationwide. For more information about Paychex and our products, visit .
www.paychex.com
Page 2 of 5
 
     Certain written and oral statements made by management of Paychex, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Paychex") may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "we expect," "expected to," "estimates," "estimated," "current outlook," "we look forward to," "would equate to," "projects," "projections," "projected to be," "anticipates," "anticipated," "we believe," "could be," and other similar phrases. All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that the Company expects or anticipates will occur in the future, including statements relating to revenue growth, earnings, earnings-per-share growth, or similar projections, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. Because they are forward-looking, they should be evaluated in light of important risk factors. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following risks, as well as those that are described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's most recent Form 10-K filed on July 22, 2005: changes in demand for the Company's products and services, ability to develop and market new products and services effectively, pricing changes and impact of competition, and the availability of skilled workforce; general market and economic conditions, including, among others, changes in United States employment and wage levels, changes in new hiring trends, changes in short- and long-term interest rates, and changes in the market value and the credit rating of securities held by the Company; changes in the laws regulating collection and payment of payroll taxes, professional employer organizations, and employee benefits, including 401(k) plans, workers' compensation, state unemployment, and section 125 plans; changes in Professional Employer Organization direct costs, including, but not limited to, workers' compensation rates and underlying claims trends; changes in technology, including use of the Internet; the possibility of failure of the Company's operating facilities, computer systems, and communication systems during a catastrophic event; the possibility of third-party service providers failing to perform their functions; the possibility of penalties and losses resulting from errors and omissions in performing services; the possible inability of clients to meet payroll obligations; the possibility of failure in internal controls or the inability to implement business processing improvements; and potentially unfavorable outcomes related to pending legal matters. All of these factors could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially from its anticipated results. The information provided in this document is based upon the facts and circumstances known at this time. The Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of issuance of this release, or to reflect occurrence of unanticipated events.
Page 3 of 5
 
Note: Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, as more fully described in our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended February 28, 2006.
Page 4 of 5
 
Note: Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation, as more fully described in our Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended February 28, 2006.
Page 5 of 5


