FILE:PAYX/PAYX-8K-20060719163038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On July 13, 2006, Paychex, Inc.'s (the "Company") Board of Directors approved the below arrangements for certain officers, as identified.
Further Information
Additional information regarding compensation awarded to certain of the Company's executive officers for the year ended May 31, 2006 will be provided in the Company's proxy statement for its 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about August 31, 2006.
     (b) On July 13, 2006, the Company's Board of Directors accepted J. Robert Sebo's resignation from the Board of Directors effective on October 4, 2006, the day prior to the expected date of Paychex, Inc.'s Annual Meeting of Stockholders. There were no disagreements between Mr. Sebo and the Company relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices involved in Mr. Sebo's decision not to stand for re-election as a Director.
     Mr. Sebo has been invaluable to Paychex, Inc. during his more than 30 year association with the Company. The Board of Directors thanks Mr. Sebo for his contributions and wishes him much success in his future endeavors.
EXHIBIT INDEX
The following exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 10.1 Master Restricted Stock Award Agreement
     1. . This 2007 Master Restricted Stock Award Agreement (this "Award Agreement") sets forth the terms and conditions of the Restricted Stock (the "Award") granted to you by the Governance and Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Paychex, Inc. (the "Company") under the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective October 12, 2005 (the "Plan"), as described on your Award Notice. The Award is subject to all of the provisions of the Plan, which is hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this Award Agreement. The capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement are defined in the Plan.
Grant of Restricted Stock
     2. .
Restriction and Vesting
          (a) Subject to the terms set forth in this Award Agreement and the Plan, unless earlier vested under Section 2(b) of this Award Agreement, provided you are still a full-time employee of the Company at that time, all of the Shares represented by the Award will vest on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant set forth on your Award Notice (a "Vesting Date").
          (b) Notwithstanding Section 2(a) of this Award Agreement, for each of the following fiscal years of the Company, if the Company's operating income, excluding interest on funds held for clients and excluding stock-based compensation expense, ("Operating Income"), for such fiscal year equals or exceeds the following target for such fiscal year, then, provided you are still a full-time employee of the Company at that time, one-third of the total number of Shares represented by the Award shall vest upon the confirmation by the Company of such fiscal year's Operating Income (also a "Vesting Date"):
          (c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if your employment terminates for any reason, including, but not limited to, death, Disability or Retirement, before all of the Shares represented by the Award have vested, then the unvested Shares underlying the Award shall be forfeited and cancelled immediately.
     3. . The Award initially will be evidenced by book-entry registration only, without the issuance of a certificate representing the Shares underlying the Award.
Book-Entry Registration
     4. . The Company shall, when that the conditions to vesting specified in Section 2 of this Award Agreement are satisfied, issue a certificate or certificates representing the Shares underlying the Award that have vested as promptly as practicable following the Vesting Date of such Shares.
Issuance of Shares
 
     5. . Except as otherwise provided by this Section, you will have the rights of a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying the Award, including, but not limited to, the right to receive such cash dividends, if any, as may be declared on such Shares from time to time and the right to vote (in person or by proxy) such Shares at any meeting of stockholders of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the dividends paid on any unvested Shares shall be retained by the Company and held in escrow, trust or similar manner, and shall only be paid to you upon the vesting of the underlying Shares to which the dividends relate; upon the forfeiture of any Shares represented by the Award, your right to the dividends paid on the underlying Shares which are forfeited shall also be forfeited.
Rights as a Stockholder
     6. . The Award, and the right to vote the Shares underlying the Award and to receive dividends thereon, may not, except as otherwise provided in the Plan, be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or encumbered in any way prior to the vesting of such Shares, whether by operation of law or otherwise, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. After a Vesting Date, the vested Shares may be issued during your lifetime only to you, or after your death to your designated beneficiary, or, in the absence of such beneficiary, to your duly qualified personal representative.
Restrictions on Transfer of Shares
     7. . The grant and the vesting of the Award is conditioned upon your making arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment to the Company of the amount of all taxes required by any governmental authority to be withheld and paid over by the Company or any Affiliate to the governmental authority on account of such grant or vesting. The payment of such withholding taxes to the Company may be made (i) by you in cash or by check, or (ii) by the Company or any Affiliate withholding such taxes from any other compensation owed to you by the Company or any Affiliate. Withholding of Shares for payment of tax withholdings is not permitted for any reason.
Withholding
     8. . Neither the Plan, the granting of the Award, the Award Notice nor this Award Agreement gives you any right to remain in the employment of the Company or any Affiliate.
Limitation of Rights
     9. . This Award Agreement does not affect the right of the Company or any Affiliate to take any corporate action whatsoever, including without limitation its right to recapitalize, reorganize or make other changes in its capital structure or business, merge or consolidate, issue bonds, notes, Shares or other securities, including preferred stock, or options therefor, dissolve or liquidate, or sell or transfer any part of its assets or business.
Rights of Company and Affiliates
     10. . In the event of any conflict among the provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, the provisions of the Plan will be controlling and determinative.
Plan Controls
     11. . Except as otherwise provided by the Plan, the Company may only alter, amend or terminate the Award with your consent.
Amendment
     12. . This Award Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York, except as superseded by applicable federal law, without giving effect to its conflicts of law provisions.
Governing Law


