FILE:PAYX/PAYX-8K-20090505163446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On May 4, 2009, Paychex, Inc. ("Paychex") issued a press release announcing the appointment of Jennifer R. Vossler as Vice President and Controller effective May 4, 2009. The press release is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K ("Form 8-K").
Ms. Vossler, age 46, is a senior executive with 25 years of experience in corporate finance and public accounting. Most recently she served as Vice President and Corporate Controller of Bausch & Lomb Incorporated ("Bausch & Lomb"), a world leader in the development, manufacture, and marketing of eye health products, since January 2009. From 2006 through 2008, she served as Vice President of Corporate Audit and Financial Compliance for Bausch & Lomb and from 2004 through 2006 she served as Vice President of Americas Finance. Prior to this, she held various other senior management positions at Bausch & Lomb during her tenure with the company. She also held leadership roles with a global facilities management outsourcing company and a public accounting firm.
Ms. Vossler will participate in the same compensation and benefit arrangements available to other officers of Paychex. On May 4, 2009, the Board of Directors of Paychex approved a grant of 12,000 shares of non-qualified stock options and 3,000 shares of restricted stock for Ms. Vossler under the Paychex, Inc. 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (as amended and restated effective October 12, 2005). The stock options have an exercise price of $27.27 and will vest 20% per year over five years. The terms of the restricted stock grant are detailed in the Restricted Stock Award Agreement, herein incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 16, 2008.
In connection with her employment, Ms. Vossler also signed a standard confidentiality, non-solicitation, and non-compete agreement. The agreement precludes Ms. Vossler from:
The following exhibit is filed with this Form 8-K.
          Exhibit 99.1: Press Release of Paychex, Inc. dated May 4, 2009.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
Rochester, NY (May 4, 2009)  Paychex, Inc. today announced that Jennifer R. Vossler has been named the company's vice president and controller. The Paychex Board of Directors also appointed Vossler an officer of the company. Most recently, Vossler was vice president and corporate controller for Bausch & Lomb Incorporated. She is a senior executive with 25 years of experience in corporate finance and public accounting.
"We are pleased to have someone with Jennifer's expertise and qualifications join Paychex," said John Morphy, Paychex senior vice president and chief financial officer. "Her leadership abilities and the experience she brings to this role will certainly be beneficial to Paychex."
During her 14 years with Bausch & Lomb, Vossler held various executive and senior management positions with responsibilities including management of external reporting, the company's Sarbanes-Oxley efforts, international finance functions, and corporate accounting and planning. Previously in her career, Vossler held leadership roles with a global facilities management outsourcing company and a public accounting firm.
Vossler, a native of upstate New York, is a certified public accountant. She holds a Bachelor of Science degree in accounting and management information systems (MIS) from Syracuse University.
About Paychex
Paychex, Inc. (NASDAQ:) is a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. The company offers comprehensive payroll services, including payroll processing, payroll tax administration, and employee pay services, including direct deposit, check signing, and Readychex. Human resource services include 401(k) plan recordkeeping, health insurance, workers' compensation administration, section 125 plans, a professional employer organization, time and attendance solutions, and other administrative services for business. Paychex was founded in 1971. With headquarters in Rochester, New York, the company has more than 100 offices serving approximately 572,000 payroll clients nationwide as of May 31, 2008. For more information about Paychex and our products, visit .
PAYX
www.paychex.com
Laura Saxby Lynch Director, Corporate Communications 585-383-3074 lsaxbylynch@paychex.com
Media Contact


