FILE:PAYX/PAYX-8K-20100712090800.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On July 12, 2010, Paychex, Inc. (the "Company") announced the resignation of its President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), Jonathan J. Judge. Mr. Judge's resignation is effective July 31, 2010. The Board of Directors (the "Board") has commenced a search for a new CEO. In the interim, the Board has established an executive committee comprised of Delbert M. Humenik, Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing, John M. Morphy, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and Martin Mucci, Senior Vice President, Operations. Chairman of the Board B. Thomas Golisano and the Board will provide oversight for the executive committee.
In connection with his resignation, Mr. Judge has signed a separation agreement. The following is a summary of terms and conditions of that agreement.
The summary of the terms of the foregoing agreement is qualified in their entirety by reference to the text of the agreement.
Mr. Judge is expected to continue to serve as a director of the Company through the end of his term of service to the Board. On July 12, 2010, Mr. Judge informed the Board that he does not intend to stand for re-election. There were no disagreements between Mr. Judge and the Company relating to the Company's operations, policies, or practices involved in Mr. Judge's decision not to stand for re-election as a director.
COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
On July 7, 2010, the Company's Board approved the following arrangements for the Company's executive officers:
The summary of the terms of the foregoing agreement is qualified in their entirety by reference to the text of the agreement.
Additional information regarding compensation awarded to certain of the Company's executive officers for the year ended May 31, 2010 will be provided in the Company's proxy statement for its 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which is expected to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in September 2010.
Further Information
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


