FILE:PAYX/PAYX-8K-20101220162534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Paychex, Inc.'s press release dated December 20, 2010, which reports its financial results for the three and six months ended November 30, 2010, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
The following exhibit relating to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is furnished herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
December 20, 2010
SECOND QUARTER FISCAL 2011 HIGHLIGHTS
     ROCHESTER, NY, December 20, 2010 - Paychex, Inc. ("Paychex," "we," "our," or "us") (NASDAQ:PAYX) today announced total revenue of $512.0 million for the three months ended November 30, 2010 (the "second quarter"), a 3% increase from $496.6 million for the same period last year. Net income and diluted earnings per share increased 6% to $133.9 million and $0.37 per share, respectively.
     Martin Mucci, President and Chief Executive Officer, commented, "We are pleased with our second quarter results. Checks per client, revenue per check, and client retention have all continued to improve. Our favorable second quarter results were a continuation of the first quarter and our outlook for fiscal 2011 has improved accordingly."
     Payroll service revenue increased 1% to $354.8 million for the second quarter from the same period last year. Positively contributing to payroll service revenue was an increase in checks per client of 2.5% for the second quarter and our annual price increase. Our payroll client base as of November 30, 2010 is 2.2% lower than November 30, 2009, with all of the decrease occurring in the last half of the fiscal year ended May 31, 2010.
     Human Resource Services revenue increased 10% to $145.2 million for the second quarter compared to the same period last year. Human Resource Services revenue growth was impacted by the sale of Stromberg time and attendance operations ("Stromberg") in October 2009. Excluding Stromberg, Human Resource Services revenue would have increased 11% for the second quarter. This growth was generated from the following:
 
     Human Resource Services revenue growth reflects modest improvements in economic conditions, the client growth noted above, and our annual price increase. Our Paychex HR Solutions revenue has been positively impacted by increases in both clients and client employees and the related checks per client for the second quarter compared to the same period last year. This was largely attributable to the nationwide expansion of our professional employer organization ("PEO"). Health and benefits services revenue increased 29% to $10.1 million for the second quarter, driven primarily by a 29% increase in the number of applicants as of November 30, 2010 compared to November 30, 2009. In addition, growth in certain products that primarily support our Major Market Services clients has positively contributed to Human Resource Services revenue growth. The revenue growth from these factors was offset somewhat by fluctuations in PEO workers' compensation, which have negatively impacted PEO net service revenue.
 
     Total expenses increased 1% to $308.1 million for the second quarter compared to the same period last year. This increase was primarily due to costs related to continued investment in our sales force, customer service, and technological infrastructure. Improvements in productivity within operations with related lower headcount have somewhat offset this increase. Sales representative headcount is at the level expected going into our main selling season. We continue to closely manage expenses, allowing our operating income, net of certain items (see Note 1 on page 4 for further description of this non-GAAP measure), to increase 7% for the second quarter compared to the same period last year. It is anticipated that expenses will be higher in the second half of the fiscal year ending May 31, 2011 ("fiscal 2011"). Contributing to that increase will be the reinstatement of an employer match on our 401(k) Incentive Retirement Plan beginning in January 2011.
     For the second quarter, our operating income was $203.9 million, an increase of 6% from the same period last year. Operating income, net of certain items, increased 7% to $191.9 million for the second quarter as compared to $179.5 million for the same period last year.
     For the second quarter, interest on funds held for clients decreased 12% to $12.0 million due to lower average interest rates earned, offset somewhat by a 3% increase in average investment balances. The increase in average investment balances was due to an increase in state unemployment insurance rates for the 2010 calendar year and the increase in checks per client, offset somewhat by lingering effects of the difficult economic conditions on our client base. Investment income, net increased 34% to $1.5 million for the second quarter. This increase was primarily the result of higher average investment balances resulting from the investment of cash generated from operations.
     Average investment balances and interest rates are summarized below:
Page 2 of 8
 
     We continue to follow our conservative investment strategy of optimizing liquidity and protecting principal. Yields on high quality instruments remain low, negatively impacting our income earned on funds held for clients and corporate investments. We invest primarily in high credit quality securities with AAA and AA ratings and short-term securities with A-1/P-1 ratings, with more than 95% of our portfolio rated AA or better. We limit the amounts that can be invested in any single issuer. We invest predominantly in municipal bonds - general obligation bonds; pre-refunded bonds, which are secured by a United States ("U.S.") government escrow; and essential services revenue bonds. Starting in November 2009, we began to invest in select A-1/P-1-rated variable rate demand notes ("VRDNs") and we have gradually increased our investment in VRDNs to $700.0 million as of November 30, 2010, up from $226.3 million as of May 31, 2010. During the second quarter, we earned an after-tax rate of approximately 0.25% on VRDNs compared to approximately 0.08% on U.S. agency discount notes, which are our primary short-term investment vehicle.
     The available-for-sale securities within the funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios reflected a net unrealized gain of $61.4 million as of November 30, 2010, compared with a net unrealized gain of $66.6 million as of May 31, 2010. During the six months ended November 30, 2010, the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $56.6 million to $86.2 million. The net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately $49.1 million as of December 15, 2010.
YEAR-TO-DATE FISCAL 2011 HIGHLIGHTS
     The highlights for the six months ended November 30, 2010 are as follows:
OUTLOOK
     Our outlook for fiscal 2011 is based upon current economic and interest rate conditions continuing with no significant changes. Consistent with our policy regarding guidance, our projections do not anticipate or speculate on future changes to interest rates. Our guidance is consistent with the net income trends for the years ending May 31, 2007 through 2010, when net income for the second half of the fiscal year was slightly less than the first half of the fiscal year. This relates primarily to the timing of price increases and additions to our sales force, the year end payroll processing occurring in our third fiscal quarter, and higher levels of selling expense in the second half of the fiscal year. On December 9, 2010, we announced that we entered into an agreement to acquire SurePayroll, Inc. ("SurePayroll") for approximately $115.0 million. Revenue for SurePayroll for calendar year 2010 is expected to be approximately $23.0 million. Our fiscal 2011 guidance does not reflect any anticipated results from SurePayroll as the anticipated revenue impact is less than 1% and the anticipated earnings dilution is expected to be approximately $.01 per share due to amortization on acquired intangible assets and one-time acquisition costs. Our fiscal 2011 guidance is as follows:
Page 3 of 8
 
     Interest on funds held for clients and investment income for fiscal 2011 are expected to be impacted by the low interest rate environment. As investments in our long-term portfolio mature, the proceeds are being reinvested at lower average interest rates. Investment income is expected to benefit from ongoing investment of cash generated from operations.
     Operating income, net of certain items, is expected to increase at a rate similar to the first half of fiscal 2011. Operating income, net of certain items, as a percentage of total service revenue is expected to be approximately 36% for fiscal 2011. The effective income tax rate is expected to approximate 35% for fiscal 2011.
: In addition to reporting operating income, a U.S. generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measure, we present operating income, net of certain items, which is a non-GAAP measure. We believe operating income, net of certain items, is an appropriate additional measure, as it is an indicator of our core business operations performance period over period. It is also the basis of the measure used internally for establishing the following year's targets and measuring management's performance in connection with certain performance-based compensation payments and awards. Operating income, net of certain items, excludes interest on funds held for clients. Interest on funds held for clients is an adjustment to operating income due to the volatility of interest rates, which are not within the control of management. Operating income, net of certain items, is not calculated through the application of GAAP and is not the required form of disclosure by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). As such, it should not be considered as a substitute for the GAAP measure of operating income and, therefore, should not be used in isolation of, but in conjunction with, the GAAP measure. The use of any non-GAAP measure may produce results that vary from the GAAP measure and may not be comparable to a similarly defined non-GAAP measure used by other companies.
Note 1
QUARTERLY REPORT ON FORM 10-Q
     Our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q ("Form 10-Q") is normally filed by the close of business on the same day as this press release is issued, and is available at . This press release should be read in conjunction with the Form 10-Q and the related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in that Form 10-Q.
www.paychex.com
CONFERENCE CALL
     Interested parties may access the webcast of our Earnings Release Conference Call, scheduled for December 21, 2010 at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time, at on the Investor Relations page. The webcast will also be archived on the Investor Relations page for approximately one month. Our news releases, current financial information, SEC filings, and investor presentation are also accessible at . For more information, contact:
www.paychex.com
www.paychex.com
ABOUT PAYCHEX
     Paychex, Inc. is a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. The company offers comprehensive payroll services, including payroll processing, payroll tax administration, and employee pay services, including direct deposit, check signing, and Readychex. Human Resource Services include 401(k) plan recordkeeping, section 125 plans, a professional employer organization, time and attendance solutions, and other administrative services for business. A variety of business insurance products, including group health and workers compensation, are made available through Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc. Paychex, Inc. was founded in 1971. With headquarters in Rochester, New York, the company has more than 100 offices and serves approximately 536,000 payroll clients nationwide as of May 31, 2010. For more information about Paychex, Inc. and our products, visit .
www.paychex.com
Page 4 of 8
 
"SAFE HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
     Certain written and oral statements made by us may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "we expect," "expected to," "estimates," "estimated," "current outlook," "we look forward to," "would equate to," "projects," "projections," "projected to be," "anticipates," "anticipated," "we believe," "could be," and other similar phrases. All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, including statements relating to revenue growth, earnings, earnings-per-share growth, or similar projections, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. Because they are forward-looking, they should be evaluated in light of important risk factors. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following risks, as well as those that are described in our periodic filings with the SEC:
     Any of these factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results. The information provided in this document is based upon the facts and circumstances known at this time. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements after the date of issuance of this release to reflect events or circumstances after such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
Page 5 of 8
 
 
Page 6 of 8
 
Page 7 of 8
 
Page 8 of 8


