FILE:PAYX/PAYX-8K-20101015170921.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On October 14, 2010, Paychex, Inc. (the "Company") announced that the Board of Directors (the "Board") appointed two new members. They are Martin Mucci, who was named President and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of the Company on September 30, 2010, and Joseph G. Doody, President of Staples North American Delivery. The Company's press release dated October 14, 2010 announcing the appointment of the two new Board members is furnished as exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K ("Form 8-K").
Mr. Doody will also serve as a member of the Audit Committee of the Board. The Board has also appointed Mr. Mucci to serve on the Executive Committee.
On October 13, 2010, Mr. Doody received a grant of options to purchase 5,765 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $27.63. These options vest on the one year anniversary of the date of grant. He also received an award of 1,442 shares of restricted stock which lapse on the one year anniversary of the date of the grant.
Effective October 12, 2010, the Company's Board approved the following compensation arrangements for Martin Mucci, President and CEO:
Effective October 15, 2010, Delbert M. Humenik has resigned from his position with the Company as Senior Vice President of Sales and Marketing. Mr. Humenik will receive a lump-sum payment equal to six months of base salary and health insurance premiums, subject to the execution of his separation agreement and release.
 
ITEM 5.07 SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
The Annual Meeting of Stockholders was held on October 13, 2010. There were present at the meeting, either in person or by proxy, holders of 320,649,863 common shares. Stockholders elected the six directors nominated in the September 3, 2010 Proxy Statement, constituting our entire Board, to hold office until the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders; approved amendments to the Company's 2002 Stock Incentive Plan; and ratified the selection of our independent registered public accounting firm.
Results of stockholder voting are as follows:
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
The following exhibit relating to Item 5.02 of this Form 8-K is furnished herewith:
     Exhibit 99.1: Press Release of Paychex, Inc. Dated October 14, 2010
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 99.1
Rochester, NY (October 14, 2010) - Paychex, Inc., a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses, today announced that the Paychex Board of Directors has appointed two new members. They are Martin Mucci, who was named Paychex president and chief executive officer September 30, 2010, and Joseph Doody, president of Staples North American Delivery, one of Staples' three business segments. Staples is the world's largest office products company.
Joseph Doody
In his role as president of Staples North American Delivery, Mr. Doody, 58, is responsible for Staples Advantage, Staples' business-to-business division serving medium-sized to Fortune 1000 companies; Staples Business Delivery, a sales channel that serves small businesses through staples.com and catalogs; and Quill Corporation, a direct marketer of office supplies to small and medium-sized businesses. Mr. Doody is also chairman of Staples China.
"We are delighted to have Joe as a member of the Paychex Board of Directors," said B. Thomas Golisano, Paychex chairman and founder. "He has a very strong understanding of small business through his experience at Staples, something demonstrated by the growth he has created for that organization."
Before joining Staples in 1998, Mr. Doody was president of Danka Office Imaging in North America, formerly Kodak Office Imaging. Prior to that, Mr. Doody spent 23 years with Eastman Kodak Company in various roles of increasing responsibility, culminating with his position as general manager and vice president, North America, Office Imaging.
Mr. Doody holds a bachelor's degree in economics from the State University of New York at Brockport, and he has a Masters of Business Administration in marketing from the Simon Graduate School of Business at the University of Rochester. In addition to his appointment to the Paychex Board of Directors, Mr. Doody will serve as a member of the audit committee of the Board.
Martin Mucci
Mr. Mucci is the third president and CEO in Paychex's nearly 40-year history. He was unanimously selected for this role by the Paychex Board of Directors, succeeding Jonathan J. Judge, who resigned in July 2010. The Board of Directors appointed Mr. Mucci to the Board and to the executive committee of the Board.
 
Mucci and Doody - Paychex Board Members Page 2 of 2 October 14, 2010
"We are pleased to have Marty as a voting member of the Board," Mr. Golisano said.
Mr. Mucci, 50, joined Paychex in 2002 as the company's senior vice president of operations. Prior to joining Paychex, Mr. Mucci was CEO of Frontier Telephone of Rochester, Inc. and president of telephone operations for Frontier Communications, with responsibility for sales, operations, customer service, and financial performance of Frontier's 34 local telephone companies.
Mr. Mucci holds a bachelor's degree in accounting from St. John Fisher College in Rochester, New York and received a master's degree in business administration through the Executive Development Program at the University of Rochester's Simon Graduate School of Business.
About Paychex
Paychex, Inc. (NASDAQ:PAYX) is a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. The company offers comprehensive payroll services, including payroll processing, payroll tax administration, and employee pay services, including direct deposit, check signing, and Readychex. Human resource services include 401(k) plan recordkeeping, section 125 plans, a professional employer organization, time and attendance solutions, and other administrative services for business. A variety of business insurance products, including group health and workers' compensation, are made available through Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc. Paychex was founded in 1971. With headquarters in Rochester, New York, the company has more than 100 offices serving approximately 536,000 payroll clients nationwide as of May 31, 2010. For more information about Paychex and our products, visit .
www.paychex.com
Laura Saxby Lynch Director, Corporate Communications Paychex, Inc. (585) 383-3074
Media Contact
lsaxbylynch@paychex.com


