FILE:PAYX/PAYX-8K-20110916162042.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 15, 2011, Paychex, Inc. ("Paychex") issued a press release announcing the appointment of Mark A. Bottini as Senior Vice President of Sales starting in mid-October. The press release is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K ("Form 8-K").
Mr. Bottini, age 51, is a senior sales executive with experience leading Fortune 500 sales organizations specializing in business outsourcing. Most recently, he served as Vice President of Sales for Ricoh, North America, a provider of advanced office technology and innovative document imaging products, services, and software. In previous leadership roles with Ricoh and its predecessors, Mr. Bottini has had responsibility for service and operations as well as sales. He assumed his most recent position with Ricoh in 2008 when Ricoh acquired IKON Office Solutions, Inc. During his nearly 20 years with IKON, Mr. Bottini served in a variety of sales leadership and field management roles.
In addition to an initial cash payment, Mr. Bottini will participate in the same compensation and benefit arrangements available to other officers of Paychex.
In connection with his employment, Mr. Bottini also signed a standard confidentiality, non-solicitation, and non-compete agreement. The agreement precludes Mr. Bottini from:
 
 
 
 
The following exhibit is filed with this Form 8-K.
Exhibit 99.1: Press Release of Paychex, Inc. dated September 15, 2011.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Rochester, NY (September 15, 2011)  Paychex, Inc., a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses, today named Mark A. Bottini the company's new senior vice president of sales. The Paychex Board of Directors also appointed him an officer of the company. Most recently, Bottini was vice president of sales for Ricoh, North America, a leading provider of advanced office technology and innovative document imaging products, services, and software with more than $4.7 billion in revenue.
"Mark is an excellent addition to the Paychex executive team. He brings a strong record of sales success and demonstrated leadership," said Martin Mucci, Paychex president and chief executive officer. "Mark has significant experience leading a direct sales team targeting the small- to medium-sized business market, something that makes him uniquely qualified for this role and is very beneficial to Paychex. I am very pleased to have Mark on board."
As vice president of sales for Ricoh, North America, part of Ricoh Americas Corporation, Bottini was responsible for a sales organization of more than 3,500 members. In previous leadership roles with the company, Bottini had responsibility for service and operations as well as sales. He assumed his most recent position with Ricoh in 2008 when Ricoh acquired IKON Office Solutions, Inc. During his nearly 20 years with IKON, Bottini served in a variety of sales leadership and field management roles.
Bottini, a native of Stockton, California, will begin his new role with Paychex in mid-October.
About Paychex
Paychex, Inc. (NASDAQ: ) is a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. The company offers comprehensive payroll services, including payroll processing, payroll tax administration, and employee pay services, including direct deposit, check signing, and Readychex. Human resource services include 401(k) plan recordkeeping, section 125 plans, a professional employer organization, time and attendance solutions, and other administrative services for business. A variety of business insurance products, including group health and workers' compensation, are made available through Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc. Paychex was founded in 1971. With headquarters in Rochester, New York, the company has more than 100 offices serving approximately 564,000 payroll clients nationwide as of May 31, 2011. For more information about Paychex and our products, visit .
PAYX
www.paychex.com
Stay Connected with Paychex
Twitter:
www.twitter.com/paychex
Facebook:
www.facebook.com/paychex
LinkedIn:
http://www.linkedin.com/company/paychex/products
Media Contact
Laura Saxby Lynch
Director, Corporate Communications
Phone: (585) 383-3074
Email:
lsaxbylynch@paychex.com
Twitter:
@PaychexNews


