FILE:PAYX/PAYX-8K-20120328164041.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Paychex, Inc.'s press release dated March 28, 2012, which reports its financial results for the three and nine months ended February 29, 2012, is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The following exhibit relating to Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is furnished herewith:
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release of Paychex, Inc. dated March 28, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
March 28, 2012
THIRD QUARTER FISCAL 2012 HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROCHESTER, NY, March 28, 2012  Paychex, Inc. ("Paychex," "we," "our," or "us") (NASDAQ:PAYX) today reported total revenue of $569.5 million for the three months ended February 29, 2012 (the "third quarter"), a 7% increase from $531.3 million for the three months ended February 28, 2011 (the "prior year quarter"). Net income increased 4% to $135.4 million and diluted earnings per share increased 3% to $0.37 per share. The inclusion of SurePayroll, Inc. ("SurePayroll") and ePlan Services, Inc. ("ePlan"), which were acquired in the second half of our fiscal year ended May 31, 2011 ("fiscal 2011"), contributed approximately 2% in total revenue growth for the third quarter.
Martin Mucci, President and Chief Executive Officer, commented, "We made good progress in many areas in the third quarter. New payroll sales, excluding SurePayroll, grew moderately compared to the prior year quarter and our Human Resource Services revenue advanced at a double digit rate during the quarter. Growth in checks per payroll improved for the eighth straight quarter and at a rate comparable to the second quarter. We believe that checks per payroll growth will moderate in the remainder of the fiscal year. We continued our product innovation with our new Android application, maintained the highest levels of client satisfaction, and have reiterated our guidance for fiscal 2012."
Payroll service revenue increased 5% to $386.5 million for the third quarter from the prior year quarter. Payroll service revenue growth, excluding revenue from SurePayroll, was 4% for the third quarter, driven by an increase in checks per payroll and a modest increase in revenue per check. Revenue per check was impacted by price increases offset by discounting.
Human Resource Services revenue increased 12% to $172.0 million for the third quarter compared to the prior year quarter. Excluding ePlan, Human Resource Services revenue growth for the third quarter would have been 10%, reflecting client growth and price increases. The following factors contributed to this growth:
 
 
 
Human Resources Services statistics were as follows:
 
 
Total expenses increased 8% to $359.1 million for the third quarter compared to the prior year quarter. A portion of this increase is attributable to the inclusion of SurePayroll and ePlan in the third quarter. In addition, continued investment in product development and supporting technology contributed to the increase in total expenses.
For the third quarter, our operating income was $210.4 million, an increase of 6% from the prior year quarter. Operating income, net of certain items (see Note 1 on page 4 for further description of this non-GAAP measure) increased 7% to $199.4 million for the third quarter compared to $187.2 million for the prior year quarter.
 
Interest on funds held for clients decreased 7% to $11.0 million for the third quarter, compared to the prior year quarter, due to lower average interest rates earned, offset by a 7% increase in average investment balances. The decrease in average interest rates earned resulted from market conditions that produced low interest rates on high credit quality financial securities. The increase in average investment balances was primarily due to the addition of SurePayroll client funds, wage inflation, state unemployment insurance rate increases for calendar 2012, and the increase in checks per payroll. Investment income, net, increased 5% to $1.6 million for the third quarter, but the rate of growth was negatively impacted by lower growth in average investment balances due to cash outflows for business acquisitions during the second half of fiscal 2011.
 
Average investment balances and interest rates are summarized below:
 
Our investment strategy focuses on protecting principal and optimizing liquidity. Yields on high quality instruments remain low, negatively impacting our income earned on funds held for clients and corporate investments. A substantial portion of our portfolios is invested in high credit quality securities with AAA and AA ratings and A-1/P-1 ratings on short-term securities.
The available-for-sale securities within the funds held for clients and corporate investment portfolios reflected a net unrealized gain of $68.1 million as of February 29, 2012, compared with a net unrealized gain of $59.3 million as of May 31, 2011. During the nine months ended February 29, 2012, the net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios ranged from $46.4 million to $72.5 million. The net unrealized gain on our investment portfolios was approximately $52.8 million as of March 23, 2012.
YEAR-TO-DATE FISCAL 2012 HIGHLIGHTS
The highlights for the nine months ended February 29, 2012 are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OUTLOOK
Our outlook for the fiscal year ending May 31, 2012 ("fiscal 2012") is based upon current market, economic, and interest rate conditions continuing with no significant changes. Consistent with our policy regarding guidance, our projections do not anticipate or speculate on future changes to interest rates. We expect fiscal 2012 results to be consistent with the expectations set forth in our guidance issued in June 2011, and subsequently reaffirmed. Our expectation is that growth in checks per payroll will continue to moderate through the remainder of fiscal 2012, impacting quarterly comparisons for both payroll revenue and Human Resource Services revenue. Our guidance reflects our planned spending, impacting the full year operating income, net of certain items, as a percent of total service revenue.
 
Our reaffirmed guidance is as follows:
 
Operating income, net of certain items, as a percentage of total service revenue is expected to be in the range of 36% to 37% for fiscal 2012. The effective income tax rate for fiscal 2012 is expected to approximate the rate experienced for the nine months ended February 29, 2012.
Interest on funds held for clients and investment income for fiscal 2012 are expected to continue to be impacted by the low interest rate environment. As investments in our long-term portfolio mature, the proceeds are being reinvested at lower average interest rates. Investment income is expected to benefit from ongoing investment of cash generated from operations.
: In addition to reporting operating income, a United States ("U.S."). generally accepted accounting principle ("GAAP") measure, we present operating income, net of certain items, which is a non-GAAP measure. We believe operating income, net of certain items, is an appropriate additional measure, as it is an indicator of our core business operations performance period over period. It is also the basis of the measure used internally for establishing the following year's targets and measuring management's performance in connection with certain performance-based compensation payments and awards. Operating income, net of certain items, excludes interest on funds held for clients. Interest on funds held for clients is an adjustment to operating income due to the volatility of interest rates, which are not within the control of management. Operating income, net of certain items, is not calculated through the application of GAAP and is not the required form of disclosure by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). As such, it should not be considered as a substitute for the GAAP measure of operating income and, therefore, should not be used in isolation of, but in conjunction with, the GAAP measure. The use of any non-GAAP measure may produce results that vary from the GAAP measure and may not be comparable to a similarly defined non-GAAP measure used by other companies.
Note 1
QUARTERLY REPORT ON FORM 10-Q
Our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q ("Form 10-Q") is normally filed by the close of business on the same day as this press release is issued, and is available at . This press release should be read in conjunction with the Form 10-Q and the related Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in that Form 10-Q.
www.paychex.com
CONFERENCE CALL
Interested parties may access the webcast of our Earnings Release Conference Call, scheduled for March 29, 2012 at 10:30 a.m. Eastern Time, at on the Investor Relations page. The webcast will also be archived on the Investor Relations page for approximately one month. Our news releases, current financial information, SEC filings, and investor presentation are also accessible at .
www.paychex.com
www.paychex.com
 
 
 
 
ABOUT PAYCHEX
Paychex, Inc. is a leading provider of payroll, human resource, and benefits outsourcing solutions for small- to medium-sized businesses. The company offers comprehensive payroll services, including payroll processing, payroll tax administration, and employee pay services, including direct deposit, check signing, and Readychex. Human Resource Services include 401(k) plan recordkeeping, section 125 plans, a professional employer organization, time and attendance solutions, and other administrative services for business. A variety of business insurance products, including group health and workers' compensation, are made available through Paychex Insurance Agency, Inc. Paychex, Inc. was founded in 1971. With headquarters in Rochester, New York, the company has more than 100 offices and serves approximately 564,000 payroll clients nationwide as of May 31, 2011. For more information about Paychex, Inc. and our products, visit .
www.paychex.com
"SAFE HARBOR" STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
Certain written and oral statements made by us may constitute "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are identified by such words and phrases as "we expect," "expected to," "estimates," "estimated," "current outlook," "we look forward to," "would equate to," "projects," "projections," "projected to be," "anticipates," "anticipated," "we believe," "could be," and other similar phrases. All statements addressing operating performance, events, or developments that we expect or anticipate will occur in the future, including statements relating to revenue growth, earnings, earnings-per-share growth, or similar projections, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act. Because these statements are forward-looking, they should be evaluated in light of important risk factors. These risk factors include, but are not limited to, the following risks, as well as those that are described in our periodic filings with the SEC:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any of these factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from our anticipated results. The information provided in this document is based upon the facts and circumstances known at this time. We undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements after the date of issuance of this release to reflect events or circumstances after such date, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


