FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20060516194436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
(b) Departure of Director
On May 16, 2006, Oracle Corporation ("Oracle") announced that Joseph A. Grundfest is resigning from the Oracle Board of Directors effective June 2, 2006. A copy of the press release and Mr. Grundfest's letter of resignation are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., May 16, 2006  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced that Joseph A. Grundfest is resigning from Oracle's Board of Directors on June 2, 2006, following the close of Oracle's current fiscal year.
Grundfest, the William A. Franke Professor of Law and Business at Stanford Law School, has assumed a new role as the co-director of the newly launched Arthur and Toni Rembe Rock Center for Corporate Governance at Stanford Law School. He has served as an Oracle director since October 2001 and has been the Chairman of the Compensation Committee and a member of the Finance & Audit Committee of the Board.
Oracle Chairman Jeff Henley said, "Joe has been a very diligent and dedicated member of the Board and its committees and has brought valuable insights and perspective to the Board. We thank him for his service to Oracle."
Oracle Corporation is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, please visit Oracle on the web at or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
www.oracle.com/investor

Exhibit 99.2
Daniel Cooperman, Esq.
Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and
Corporate Secretary
Oracle Corporation
500 Oracle Parkway, M/S 5op7
Redwood Shores, CA 94065
Dear Dan:
As you are aware, I have been asked to consider resigning from the board of directors of Oracle Corporation because of a perception that my new position as co-director of the Rock Center on Corporate Governance at Stanford University has the potential to raise issues that were unanticipated as of the time I initially joined the board.
While I am of the view that these concerns are misplaced, I have decided to resign my position as director effective as of June 2, 2006.
 
 
Lawrence J. Ellison, Chief Executive Officer and Director
Safra Catz, President and Director
Charles Phillips, President and Director
Jeffrey Berg, Director
H. Raymond Bingham, Director
Michael J. Boskin, Director
Hector Garcia-Molina, Director
Jack F. Kemp, Director
Donald L. Lucas, Director
Naomi Seligman, Director


