FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20060320161611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On March 20, 2006, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended February 28, 2006. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., March 20, 2006  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced that in Q3 fiscal 2006 GAAP earnings per share were $0.14, up 40% compared to the same quarter last year. Third quarter GAAP revenues were up 18% to $3.5 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was up 42% to $765 million. Total GAAP software revenues were up 20% to $2.8 billion with GAAP database and middleware new license revenues up 5% and GAAP applications new license revenues up 77%. GAAP services revenues were up 9% to $671 million compared to the same quarter last year.
 
Non-GAAP earnings per share were $0.19 in Q3, up 21% compared to the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP net income was up 23% to $1 billion compared to Q3 last year.
 
"We reported record revenues for the quarter and delivered non-GAAP EPS of 19 cents," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "Our non-GAAP operating margins reached record levels for the quarter as well, exceeding all previous third quarter results."
 
"SAP's strongest geographical region is Europe," said Oracle President, Charles Phillips. "So we are especially pleased that in Europe our applications new license revenue grew in excess of 100% year-over-year. It's very satisfying to be doing well right in SAP's backyard."
 
"Oracle's product strategy is based on a combination of innovations and acquisitions," said CEO, Larry Ellison. "Over the last several weeks we announced our internally developed Secure Enterprise Search technology, and the completion of the Siebel acquisition. As a result, Oracle now has strong product offerings in both Search and Software as a Service. These two markets are red hot and will be engines for growth for Oracle and the entire software industry for years to come."
 
Oracle Corporation is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, including supplemental financial information, please visit Oracle on the web at or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
www.oracle.com/investor
 
Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or new versions of existing products. (4) We have an active acquisition program (including our recent acquisition of Siebel Systems, Inc.), and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K, as amended, and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Stock." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on on Oracle's Investor Relations website at . All information set forth in this release is current as of March 20, 2006. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
SEC Filings
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
 
 
 
Due to a series of acquisitions, our results of operations have undergone significant change. To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the table, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions and other significant expenses that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures, and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures.
 
Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effect:
 
 
 


