FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20061012134031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrant's Business and Operations
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Approval of Fiscal Year 2007 Executive Bonus Plan
At Oracle Corporation's 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 9, 2006 (the "2006 Annual Meeting"), our stockholders approved Oracle's Fiscal Year 2007 Executive Bonus Plan (the "Bonus Plan"). The Bonus Plan provides for the payment of cash bonuses to eligible senior officers based upon the attainment of certain performance criteria established by the Compensation Committee.
A description of the Bonus Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.28 to this report.
Approval of the Amended and Restated 1993 Directors' Stock Plan
At Oracle's 2006 Annual Meeting, our stockholders approved amendments to Oracle's Amended and Restated 1993 Directors' Stock Plan (as amended, the "Amended Directors' Stock Plan"). The amendments include:
 
 
 
 
The descriptions above are summaries of the amendments that were approved by stockholders, and are qualified in their entirety by the Amended Directors' Stock Plan which is filed as Exhibit 10.29 to this report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.28
Description of the Fiscal Year 2007 Executive Bonus Plan
Participants in the Bonus Plan are chosen solely at the discretion of the Compensation Committee. Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, our Presidents, all of our Executive Vice Presidents and certain of our Senior Vice Presidents are eligible to be considered for participation in the Bonus Plan. As of August 15, 2006, there were 12 persons chosen to participate for fiscal year 2007. No person is automatically entitled to participate in the Bonus Plan in any Bonus Plan year. We may also pay discretionary bonuses, or other types of compensation, outside the Bonus Plan which may or may not be deductible. However, no employee has a guaranteed right to such discretionary compensation as a substitute for a performance award in the event that performance targets are not met or that stockholders fail to approve the material terms of the Bonus Plan.
Eligibility.
The Compensation Committee approved the adoption of the Bonus Plan, which is part of the overall compensation program for our executives, at a meeting held on August 15, 2006.
History.
The purpose of the Bonus Plan is to motivate the participants to achieve our financial performance objectives and to reward them when those objectives are met with bonuses that are intended to be deductible to the maximum extent possible as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
Purpose.
The Bonus Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee, consisting of no fewer than two members of the Board, each of whom qualifies as an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Administration.
Under the Bonus Plan, participants will be eligible to receive awards based upon the attainment, in fiscal year 2007, and certification of certain performance criteria established by the Compensation Committee. For fiscal year 2007:
Determination of Awards.
 
 
 
The Compensation Committee adopted the performance criteria on August 15, 2006, within 90 days after the start of fiscal year 2007. Each Sales and Consulting Participant's total bonus under the Bonus Plan is calculated by summing the applicable bonus for each target. For all participants, the applicable bonus for their target or targets is related to the amount by which each target is exceeded or missed. If the target bonus calculation results in a negative number, the bonus for such target is zero. The details of each of the formulas with respect to the criteria have not been included in this proxy statement in order to maintain the confidentiality of our revenue, profit and margin expectations, which we believe are confidential commercial or business information, the disclosure of which would adversely affect Oracle. In the event of the termination or resignation of a participant during fiscal year 2007, we intend to have the person who assumes the responsibilities of that participant assume the same bonus structure as that participant, but adjusted, as determined by the Compensation Committee, to take into account that such person did not serve in that capacity for the entire fiscal year.
All awards will be paid by August 15, 2007, unless a participant has requested to defer receipt of an award in accordance with the Oracle's Deferred Compensation Plan.
Payment of Awards.
The amounts that will be paid pursuant to the Bonus Plan are not currently determinable. The maximum bonus payment that our Chief Executive Officer may receive under the Bonus Plan for fiscal year 2007 would be $11,269,000. The maximum bonus payment that any other participant may receive under the Bonus Plan for fiscal year 2007 is based on a fixed multiple of a target bonus for such participant and would be less than the maximum bonus payment that our Chief Executive Officer may receive under the Bonus Plan.
Maximum Award.
The Compensation Committee may terminate the Bonus Plan, in whole or in part, suspend the Bonus Plan, in whole or in part from time to time, and amend the Bonus Plan, from time to time, including the adoption of amendments deemed necessary or desirable to correct any defect or supply omitted data or reconcile any inconsistency in the Bonus Plan or in any award granted thereunder, so long as stockholder approval has been obtained, if required in order for awards under the Bonus Plan to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. The Compensation Committee may amend or modify the Bonus Plan in any respect, or terminate the Bonus Plan, without the consent of any affected participant. However, in no event may such amendment or modification result in an increase in the amount of compensation payable pursuant to any award.
Amendment and Termination.
In order to be eligible for an award under the Bonus Plan, a participant must be actively employed by us through the date of payment. Should a participant's employment with us terminate for any reason prior to the date of payment, the participant shall not be eligible for any award under the Bonus Plan.
Termination of Employment.
Under present federal income tax law, participants will realize ordinary income equal to the amount of the award received in the year of receipt. That income will be subject to applicable income and employment tax withholding by Oracle. We will receive a deduction for the amount constituting ordinary income to the participant, provided that the Bonus Plan satisfies the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, which limits the deductibility of nonperformance-related compensation paid to certain corporate executives, and otherwise satisfies the requirements for deductibility under federal income tax law.
Federal Income Tax Consequences.

Exhibit 10.29
 
 
 
 
As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 12 of the Plan, the maximum number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan after July 14, 2003 (including pursuant to the exercise of Options outstanding as of such date) is 8,000,000 shares of Common Stock, of which not more than an aggregate of 1,800,000 Shares shall be available for Awards granted pursuant to Section 5(d) of the Plan. If an Award granted hereunder expires, terminates, becomes unexercisable or is forfeited for any reason, the underlying Shares shall become available for future grant under the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7. Awards hereunder may be granted only to Outside Directors. The Plan shall not confer upon any Outside Director any right with respect to continuation of service as a Director or nomination to serve as a Director, nor shall it interfere in any way with any rights which the Director or the Company may have to terminate his or her directorship at any time.
Eligibility.
8. Payment of the exercise price of any Award shall be made (i) by cash or check; (ii) to the extent not prohibited by the Board or by applicable law, and provided that a public market for the Company's stock exists, through a "same day sale" commitment from the Participant and a broker-dealer that is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers (an "NASD Dealer") whereby Participant irrevocably elects to exercise the Award and to sell a portion of the Shares so purchased to pay for the exercise price and whereby the NASD Dealer irrevocably commits upon receipt of such Shares to forward the exercise price directly to the Company; or (iii) as otherwise determined by the Board and as permitted by applicable law or regulation.
Payment Upon Exercise.
9. Whenever, under the Plan, Shares are to be issued pursuant to any Award granted hereunder, the Company shall have the right to require the recipient to remit to the Company an amount of cash sufficient to satisfy any applicable federal, state or local income and employment tax withholding requirements prior to the delivery of any certificate or certificates for such Shares.
Withholding Taxes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11. Awards granted under this Plan, and any interest therein, shall not be transferable or assignable by the Participant, and may not be made subject to execution, attachment or similar process, otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the Participant only by the Participant; provided, however; that Awards held by a Participant may be transferred to such family members, trusts and charitable institutions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall approve, unless otherwise restricted from such transfer under the terms of the Award. The designation of a beneficiary by a Participant does not constitute a transfer.
Nontransferability of Awards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14. Shares shall not be issued pursuant to any Award hereunder unless the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with all relevant provisions of law, including, without limitation, the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, state securities laws, and the requirements of any stock exchange upon which the Shares may then be listed, and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares.
As a condition to the issuance of Shares pursuant to any Award, the Company may require the Participant to represent and warrant that the Shares are being acquired only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares, if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required by any of the relevant provisions of the law.
Inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdictional authority deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary for the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability for failure to issue or sell such Shares.
15. The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Reservation of Shares.
16. The grant of Awards hereunder to persons subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act shall comply with the applicable provisions of Rule 16b-3. The Company intends this Plan to be a "formula plan" under Rule 16b-3 with respect to Awards granted hereunder.
Rule 16b-3.


