FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20060622163551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On June 22, 2006, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and year ended May 31, 2006. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
 
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., June 22, 2006  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2006 Q4 GAAP earnings per share of $0.24, up 24% compared to the same quarter last year. Fourth quarter GAAP revenues were up 25% to $4.9 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was up 27% to $1.3 billion. Total GAAP software revenues were up 28% to $4.0 billion with GAAP database and middleware new license revenues up 18% and GAAP applications new license revenues up 83%. GAAP services revenues were $857 million, up 13% compared to the same quarter last year.
Non-GAAP earnings per share were $0.29 in Q4, up 11% compared to the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP net income was up 13% to $1.5 billion compared to Q4 last year.
Fiscal year 2006 GAAP earnings per share were $0.64, up 16% compared to the prior year. Fiscal year 2006 GAAP revenues were up 22% to $14.4 billion, while annual GAAP net income was up 17% to $3.4 billion. Total GAAP software revenues for the full year were up 23% to $11.5 billion with annual GAAP database and middleware new license revenues up 9% and annual GAAP applications new license revenues up 66%. Annual GAAP services revenues were $2.8 billion, up 19% compared to the year ago period.
Fiscal year 2006 non-GAAP earnings per share were $0.80, up 19% year over year. Annual non-GAAP net income was up 20% to $4.2 billion compared to fiscal year 2005.
"We reported record revenues and earnings for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2006," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "In two years, our non-GAAP EPS is up 56%. That is well above our stated goal of a 20% average annual growth rate."
"In Q4 Oracle delivered accelerating revenue growth across virtually all product lines and geographies," said Oracle President, Charles Phillips. "Our applications business was especially strong with new license sales growing 83% including acquisitions, and 56% growth on an organic basis. At these very high growth rates, Oracle is rapidly increasing its share of the applications market."
"Oracle's database and middleware business grew 18% in the quarter and 9% for the full year," said CEO, Larry Ellison. "We are growing faster than the overall database market because we are winning share from our competitors. The latest Gartner and IDC reports confirm that Oracle is increasing its lead over the number two database, IBM's DB2, as more and more companies move their applications off of mainframes and onto Oracle Database Grids."
Oracle Corporation is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, including supplemental financial information, please visit Oracle on the web at or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
www.oracle.com/investor
Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's results and future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or new versions of existing products. (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
operations. (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K, as amended, and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Factors That May Affect Our Future Results or the Market Price of Our Stock." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC at or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this release is current as of June 22, 2006. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
www.sec.gov
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
Due to a series of acquisitions, our results of operations have undergone significant change. To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the table, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries, and expenses related to acquisitions and other significant expenses, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures, and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effect:
 
 
 
 


