FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20060919162219.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On September 19, 2006, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended August 31, 2006. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 
 
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., Sept. 19, 2006  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ-GS: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2007 Q1 GAAP earnings per share were up 28% to $0.13, compared to the same quarter last year. First quarter total GAAP revenues were up 30% to $3.6 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was up 29% to $670 million. Total GAAP software revenues were up 29% to $2.7 billion with database and middleware new license revenues up 15% and applications new license revenues up 80%. Services revenues were up 33% to $846 million, compared to the same quarter last year.
 
First quarter non-GAAP earnings per share were up 24% to $0.18, and non-GAAP net income was up 26% to $931 million, compared to the same quarter last year.
 
"We reported record revenues and earnings for the first quarter," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "We exceeded our guidance on every metric and delivered strong revenue growth across all product lines and geographies. We are now in year three of our five year plan targeting EPS growth at 20% per year. We continue to deliver results comfortably ahead of target."
 
"We're rapidly taking applications market share from SAP," said Oracle President, Charles Phillips. "Q1 was the second consecutive quarter that Oracle's applications new license sales growth was 80% or more. That's ten times SAP's 8% new license sales growth rate in their most recently completed quarter."
 
"SAP appears to be rethinking their strategy as they lose application market share to Oracle and confront the difficulties of moving their application software to a modern
Service Oriented Architecture (SOA)," said CEO, Larry Ellison. "They've just announced that they are delaying the next version of SAP applications until 2010. That's a full two years behind Oracle's scheduled delivery of our SOA Fusion applications. And now Kagermann is talking about an acquisition strategy to augment SAP's slowing organic growth. These are major changes in direction for SAP."
 
 
Oracle Corporation is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, including supplemental financial information, please visit Oracle on the web at or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
www.oracle.com/investor
 
Statements in this presentation relating to Oracle's future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or new versions of existing products. (4) We have an active acquisition program, and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this release is current as of the date of this presentation. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2007 is recognized at fair value under FASB Statement 123R. Stock-based compensation expense in the first quarter of fiscal 2006 is recognized at intrinsic value under APB Opinion 25 and pertains only to unvested stock-options assumed from acquisitions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
 
 
 
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the table, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures, and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effect:
 
 
 
 


