FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20060815214845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events
          On August 14, 2006, Oracle agreed to invest approximately US$125 million in i-flex solutions limited ("i-flex") (Bombay Stock Exchange: IFLX.BO and National Stock Exchange of India: IFLX.NS) to fund growth initiatives, including i-flex's pending acquisition of Mantas, Inc.
          i-flex will issue approximately 4.45 million equity shares to Oracle under a preferential allotment at a purchase price of Rs. 1,307.50 per share. Upon completion of the preferential allotment, Oracle's ownership in i-flex is expected to increase from the current 52.5% to 55.1%. The preferential allotment is subject to approval by an Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) of i-flex shareholders to be held on Tuesday, September 12, 2006.
          As required by Indian law, following the preferential allotment, Oracle will be required to make a mandatory open offer to purchase up to an additional 20 percent of the shares outstanding from the remaining i-flex shareholders at a price of Rs. 1,475.00 per share. If the open offer is fully subscribed, the aggregate consideration for the open offer would be approximately $515 million.
          On August 14, 2006, Oracle issued a press release announcing its agreement to invest further in i-flex, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced that it has agreed to invest US$125 million (approximately Rs. 5,815 million) in i-flex solutions (Bombay Stock Exchange: IFLX.BO and National Stock Exchange of India: IFLX.NS) to fund growth initiatives, including its pending acquisition of Mantas, Inc.
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif. August 14, 2006
i-flex will issue approximately 4.45 million equity shares to Oracle under a preferential allotment. The price of the shares under the preferential allotment will be Rs. 1,307.50 per share, which is the floor price established by the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) formula for a preferential allotment as of the reference date of August 13, 2006. Upon completion of the preferential allotment, Oracle's ownership in i-flex is expected to increase from the current 52.5% to 55.1%. An Extraordinary General Meeting (EGM) of i-flex shareholders will be held on Tuesday, September 12 to approve the preferential allotment.
As required by Indian law, Oracle will make a mandatory open offer to purchase up to an additional 20 percent of the shares outstanding from the remaining i-flex shareholders at a price of Rs 1,475.00 per share in accordance with SEBI Regulations. The open offer price is based on the SEBI formula for the minimum price of the mandatory open offer.
DSP Merrill Lynch is acting as a manager of the open offer.
Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL) is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, visit Oracle's Web site at http://www.oracle.com.
About Oracle
i-flex solutions (Reuters: IFLX.BO and IFLX.NS) is a world leader in providing IT solutions to the financial services industry. For more information about i-flex, visit the i-flex web site at http://www.iflexsolutions.com.
About i-flex solutions
Oracle, JD Edwards, PeopleSoft and Siebel are registered trademarks of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Trademarks
This press release is for information purposes and not an offer to buy or the solicitation of an offer to sell any shares. The details of the open offer to the public shareholders of i-flex will be made pursuant to a Letter of Offer addressed to each of the shareholders of i-flex. Shareholders of i-flex should read these materials carefully because they contain important information, including the terms and conditions of the offer.


