FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20071219162352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (650) 506-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On December 19, 2007, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended November 30, 2007. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
     REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., December 19, 2007  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2008 Q2 GAAP earnings per share were up 36% to $0.25, compared to the same quarter last year. Second quarter total GAAP revenues were up 28% to $5.3 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was up 35% to $1.3 billion. Total GAAP software revenues were up 29% to $4.2 billion with GAAP new software license revenues up 38% to $1.7 billion. Database and middleware new license revenues were up 28% and applications new license revenues were up 63%. Services revenues were up 22% to $1.2 billion, compared to the same quarter last year.
     Second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share were up 40% to $0.31, and non-GAAP net income was up 38% to $1.6 billion, compared to the same quarter last year.
     "In Q1 we reported new software license revenues up 35%, the strongest growth of any quarter in ten years," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "In Q2 we did even better with new software license sales up 38%. GAAP EPS were up 36%; non-GAAP EPS were up 40%. We exceeded our guidance and our best case forecast with strong revenue growth across all product lines and geographies."
     "In Q2 Oracle's applications new license sales grew 63% compared to SAP's new license sales growth rate of 15% in their most recently completed quarter," said Oracle President, Charles Phillips. "We like our growth strategy of expanding beyond ERP into high-end industry specific vertical software in contrast to SAP's strategy of moving down market to sell ERP systems to small companies."
     "Our database and middleware new license sales grew 28% in Q2," said CEO, Larry Ellison. "We continue to take market share from IBM in both product categories."
 
Q2 Earnings Announcement
Oracle will hold a conference call and web broadcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. (PST) / 5:00 p.m. (EST). To access the live web broadcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. Please hold down your control key while pressing refresh to ensure that the weblink is visible.
About Oracle
Oracle is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, including supplemental financial information, please visit http://www.oracle.com/investor or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
Trademarks
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or new versions of existing or acquired products. (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this release is current as of December 19, 2007. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the table, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures, and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:
 -  : Business combination accounting rules require us to account for the fair value of support contracts assumed in connection with our acquisitions. Because these are typically one-year contracts, our GAAP revenues for the one-year period subsequent to our acquisitions do not reflect the full amount of software license updates and product support revenues on assumed support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired entities. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenues. We believe this adjustment is useful to investors as a measure of the ongoing performance of our business because we have historically experienced high renewal rates on support contracts, although we cannot be certain that customers will renew these contracts.
Support deferred revenue
 -  : We have excluded the effect of stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees, and we believe such compensation contributed to the revenues earned during the periods presented and also believe it will contribute to the generation of future period revenues, we continue to evaluate our business performance excluding stock-based compensation expenses. Stock-based compensation expenses will recur in future periods.
Stock-based compensation expenses
 -  : We have excluded the effect of amortization of intangibles from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income. Amortization of intangible assets expense is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to future period revenues as well. Amortization expenses will recur in future periods.
Amortization of intangible assets expenses
 -  : We incurred significant expenses in connection with acquisitions, which we would not have otherwise incurred in the periods presented. Acquisition related charges primarily consist of in-process research and development expenses, integration-related professional services, stock-based compensation expenses (in addition to the stock-based compensation expenses described above) and personnel related expenses for transitional employees. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related charges primarily resulted from unvested options assumed in acquisitions whose vesting was fully accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of the options. Restructuring expenses consist of Oracle employee severance and other exit costs, generally in connection with our acquisitions. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effect of these expenses on our cost structure. Although acquisition related charges and restructuring costs are not recurring with respect to past acquisitions, we will incur these expenses in connection with future acquisitions.
Acquisition related charges and restructuring expenses
For the three and six months ended November 30, 2006, acquisition related charges also included a benefit related to the settlement of a lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft, Inc. on behalf of the U.S. government. This lawsuit was filed in October 2003, prior to our acquisition of PeopleSoft and represented a pre-acquisition contingency that we identified and assumed in connection with our acquisition of PeopleSoft. In October 2006, we agreed to pay the U.S. government $98 million to settle this lawsuit. Business combination accounting standards require that after the end of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment that results from a pre-acquisition contingency should be included as an element of net income in the period of settlement, versus an adjustment to the original purchase price allocation. Since the purchase price allocation period for PeopleSoft ended in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the favorable difference of $52 million between the estimated exposure recorded for this lawsuit during the purchase price allocation period and the actual settlement amount has been included in our consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended November 30, 2006 as a component of acquisition related charges.


