FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20070320161152.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2Financial Information
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On March 20, 2007, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended February 28, 2007. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
 
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
 
 
 
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., March 20, 2007  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ-GS: ORCL) today announced that fiscal 2007 Q3 GAAP earnings per share were up 36% to $0.20, compared with the same quarter last year. Third quarter GAAP revenues were up 27% to $4.4 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was up 35% to $1.03 billion. Total GAAP software revenues were up 25% to $3.5 billion with GAAP database and middleware new license revenues up 17% and GAAP applications new license revenues up 57%. GAAP services revenues were $916 million, up 36% compared to the same quarter last year.
 
Third quarter non-GAAP earnings per share were up 31% to $0.25, and non-GAAP net income was up 30% to $1.3 billion compared to Q3 last year.
 
"Both revenue and earnings growth accelerated sharply in the third quarter," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "We exceeded guidance on every metric with strong revenue growth across all product lines and in all geographies. We've now completed eleven quarters of our five year EPS growth plan of 20% per year, and we are delivering earnings growth comfortably ahead of that target."
 
"Our middleware new license sales grew 82% in the third quarter and 62% over the last twelve months," said CEO, Larry Ellison. "This compares to BEA's growth rate of 8% in their most recently reported quarter and 12% over their last year. Not only are we growing faster than BEA, we're now larger than they are in the middleware business."
 
"Our applications new license sales grew 57% in the third quarter and 61% over the last twelve months," said President, Charles Phillips. "This compares to SAP's growth rate of 7% in their most recently reported quarter and 10% over their last year. Although SAP is still larger than Oracle in the applications business, we are closing the gap consistently and rapidly."
 
Q3 Earnings Announcement
 
Oracle will hold a conference call and web broadcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. (PDT) / 5:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the live web broadcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at . Please hold down your control key while pressing refresh to ensure that the weblink is visible.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
Oracle Corporation is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, including supplemental financial information, please visit Oracle on the web at or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or new versions of existing products. (4) We have an active acquisition program (including our recently announced proposed acquisition of Hyperion Solutions Corporation) and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on on Oracle's Investor Relations website at . All information set forth in this release is current as of March 20, 2007. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
SEC Filings
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
 
 
 
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the table, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures, and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effect:
 
 
 
 
 
For the nine months ended February 28, 2007, acquisition related charges also included a benefit related to the settlement of a lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft, Inc. on behalf of the U.S. government. This lawsuit was filed in October 2003, prior to our acquisition of PeopleSoft. The lawsuit alleged PeopleSoft made defective pricing disclosures to the General Services Administration. This lawsuit represented a pre-acquisition contingency that we identified and assumed in connection with the PeopleSoft acquisition. On October 10, 2006, we agreed to pay the U.S. government $98.5 million to settle this lawsuit. Business combination accounting standards require that after the end of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment that results from a pre-acquisition contingency should be included as an element of net income in the period of settlement, versus an adjustment to the original purchase price allocation. Since the purchase price allocation period for PeopleSoft ended in the third quarter of our fiscal year 2006, the favorable difference of $51.5 million between the estimated exposure recorded for this lawsuit during the purchase price allocation period and the actual settlement amount has been included in our consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended February 28, 2007 as a component of acquisition related charges.


