FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20070626161208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (650) 506-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On June 26, 2007, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended May 31, 2007. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
               
For Immediate Release
     REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., June 26, 2007Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced that fiscal 2007 Q4 GAAP earnings per share were up 27% to $0.31, compared to the same quarter last year. Fourth quarter GAAP revenues were up 20% to $5.8 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was up 23% to $1.6 billion. Total GAAP software revenues were up 19% to $4.8 billion. GAAP new license revenues were up 17% with GAAP database and middleware new license revenues up 18% and GAAP applications new license revenues up 13%. GAAP services revenues were up 26% to $1.1 billion compared to the same quarter last year.
     Fourth quarter non-GAAP earnings per share were up 28% to $0.37, and non-GAAP net income was up 24% to $1.9 billion compared to Q4 last year.
     For fiscal year 2007, GAAP earnings per share were up 27% to $0.81. Fiscal year 2007 GAAP revenues were up 25% to $18.0 billion, while annual GAAP net income was up 26% to $4.3 billion. Total GAAP software revenues for the year were up 23% to $14.2 billion with GAAP database and middleware new license revenues up 16% and GAAP applications new license revenues up 32%. Annual GAAP services revenues were $3.8 billion, up 33% compared to the year ago period.
     Fiscal year 2007 non-GAAP earnings per share were up 25% year over year to $1.01. Annual non-GAAP net income was up 25% to $5.3 billion compared to fiscal year 2006.
     "If you have the right strategy and the best technology it will show up in your results", said Oracle President and CFO Safra Catz. "The numbers speak for themselves. Annual revenue
 
increased $3.6 billion to $18 billion, operating income increased $1.2 billion to $6 billion, and cash flow from operations increased $1 billion to $5.5 billion. It was a great year."
     "Over the last twelve months Oracle's application new software license revenues grew at a rate of 32% while SAP's growth slowed to 10% in their most recent fiscal year", said Oracle President Charles Phillips. "Our strategy of combining innovation with acquisitions is clearly beating SAP's strategy of trying to build everything themselves using a 1970s-era proprietary programming language."
     "Oracle's unique database grid architecture has enabled us to take market share from IBM", said Oracle CEO Larry Ellison. "Gartner's just published database research report confirms that Oracle's database market share has now increased to 47% while IBM's share declined to 21%. IBM has been unable to match the performance and reliability of Oracle database grids."
     
Q4 Earnings Announcement
     Oracle will hold a conference call and web broadcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. (PDT) / 5:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the live web broadcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at . Please hold down your control key while pressing refresh to ensure that the weblink is visible.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
     
About Oracle
     Oracle is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, including supplemental financial information, please visit or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
     
Trademarks
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
     Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
 
materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or new versions of existing or acquired products. (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at . All information set forth in this release is current as of June 26, 2007. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the table, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures, and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:
: Business combination accounting rules require us to account for the fair value of support contracts assumed in connection with our acquisitions. Because these are typically one-year contracts, our GAAP revenues for the one-year period subsequent to our acquisitions do not reflect the full amount of software license updates and product support revenues on assumed support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired entities. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenues. We believe this adjustment is useful to investors as a measure of the ongoing performance of our business because we have historically experienced high renewal rates on support contracts, although we cannot be certain that customers will renew these contracts.
 - 
Support deferred revenue
: We adopted FASB Statement No. 123R, , on June 1, 2006 under the modified prospective method. Statement 123R requires us to record non-cash operating expenses associated with stock option awards at their estimated fair values. Prior to our Statement 123R adoption, we were required to record stock-based compensation expenses at intrinsic values, which were substantially related to options assumed from acquisitions. In accordance with the modified prospective method, our financial statements for prior periods have not been restated to reflect, and do not include, the changes in methodology to expense options at fair values in accordance with Statement 123R. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees, and we believe such compensation contributed to the revenues earned during the periods presented and also believe it will contribute to the generation of future period revenues, we continue to evaluate our business performance excluding stock-based compensation expenses. Stock-based compensation expenses will recur in future periods.
 - 
Stock-based compensation expenses
Share-Based Payments
: We have excluded the effect of amortization of intangibles from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income. Amortization of intangible assets expense is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to future period revenues as well. Amortization expenses will recur in future periods.
 - 
Amortization of intangible assets expenses
: We incurred significant expenses in connection with acquisitions, which we would not have otherwise incurred in the periods presented. Acquisition related charges primarily consist of in-process research and development expenses, integration-related professional services, stock-based compensation expenses (in addition to the stock-based compensation expenses described above) and personnel related expenses for transitional employees. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related charges resulted from unvested options assumed in acquisitions whose vesting was fully accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of the options. Restructuring expenses consist of Oracle employee severance and Oracle duplicate facility closures in connection with acquisitions. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effect of these expenses on our cost structure. Although acquisition related charges and restructuring costs are not recurring with respect to past acquisitions, we will incur these expenses in connection with future acquisitions.
 - 
Acquisition related charges and restructuring expenses
For the year ended May 31, 2007, acquisition related charges also included a benefit related to the settlement of a lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft, Inc. on behalf of the U.S. government. This lawsuit was filed in October 2003, prior to our acquisition of PeopleSoft. The lawsuit alleged PeopleSoft made defective pricing disclosures to the General Services Administration. This lawsuit represented a pre-acquisition contingency that we identified and assumed in connection with the PeopleSoft acquisition. On October 10, 2006, we agreed to pay the U.S. government $98.5 million to settle this lawsuit. Business combination accounting standards require that after the end of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment that results from a pre-acquisition contingency should be included as an element of net income in the period of settlement, versus an adjustment to the original purchase price allocation. Since the purchase price allocation period for PeopleSoft ended in the third quarter of our fiscal year 2006, the favorable difference of $51.5 million between the estimated exposure recorded for this lawsuit during the purchase price allocation period and the actual settlement amount has been included in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended May 31, 2007 as a component of acquisition related charges.


