FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20080604154704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o 
This Form 8-K/A is filed as an amendment (Amendment No. 1) to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Oracle Corporation under Items 2.01, 8.01 and 9.01 on April 29, 2008. Amendment No. 1 is being filed to include the financial information required under Item 9.01.
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 23.1
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 Nos. 333-142776, 333-142225, 333-139901, 333-139875, 333-138694, 333-136275, 333-131988, 333-131427, 333-145162, 333-147400, and 333-151045 and Form S-3 No. 333-142796) of Oracle Corporation of our report dated March 26, 2008, related to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of BEA Systems, Inc. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of BEA Systems, Inc. appearing in BEA Systems Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 31, 2008 and incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A of Oracle Corporation.
/s/ Ernst & Young LLP
San Jose, California May 30, 2008

Exhibit 99.2
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are based on the historical financial statements of Oracle Corporation and BEA Systems, Inc. after giving effect to Oracle's acquisition of BEA on April 29, 2008, debt issued to finance the BEA acquisition and for general corporate purposes (the Debt Issuance), and the assumptions, reclassifications and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of February 29, 2008 is presented as if our acquisition of BEA and the Debt Issuance had occurred on February 29, 2008.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the nine months ended February 29, 2008, and year ended May 31, 2007, are presented as if the BEA acquisition and the Debt Issuance had occurred on June 1, 2006 and were carried forward through each of the aforementioned respective periods.
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price used in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements is based upon preliminary estimates. These preliminary estimates and assumptions are subject to change during the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date) as we finalize the valuations of the net tangible assets, intangible assets and in-process research and development acquired.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not include the effects of any future restructuring activities that pertain to our Oracle-based operations pursuant to our Fiscal 2008 Oracle Restructuring Plan. These future restructuring expenses may be material and may include costs for severance, costs of vacating facilities and costs to exit or terminate other duplicative activities. Future restructuring expenses pertaining to our Oracle-based operations are expected to be incurred over the remainder of calendar 2008 and are recorded to our operating expenses in the period that these expenses are incurred.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of our consolidated results of operations or financial position that we would have reported had the BEA acquisition and the Debt Issuance been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as a representation of our future consolidated results of operations or financial position. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect any operating efficiencies and/or cost savings that we may achieve with respect to the combined companies.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes of Oracle and BEA included in the respective annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
 
     See notes to unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
 
     See notes to unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
 
     See notes to unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
 
1. BASIS OF PRO FORMA PRESENTATION
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of February 29, 2008, and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations for the nine months ended February 29, 2008, and for the year ended May 31, 2007, are based on the historical financial statements of Oracle Corporation and BEA Systems, Inc. after giving effect to Oracle's acquisition of BEA on April 29, 2008, the Debt Issuance, and the assumptions, reclassifications and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
We account for business combinations pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 141, . In accordance with Statement 141, we allocate the purchase price of an acquired company to the net tangible assets and intangible assets, as well as to in-process research and development, acquired based upon their estimated fair values. We have made significant assumptions and estimates in determining the preliminary estimated purchase price and the preliminary allocation of the estimated purchase price in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements. These preliminary estimates and assumptions are subject to change during the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date) as we finalize the valuations of the net tangible assets, intangible assets and in-process research and development acquired. In particular, the final valuations of identifiable intangible assets, restructuring activities and property values and associated tax effects may change significantly from our preliminary estimates. These changes could result in material variances between our future financial results and the amounts presented in these unaudited condensed combined financial statements, including variances in fair values recorded, as well as expenses and cash flows associated with these items.
Business Combinations
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not include the effects of any future restructuring activities that pertain to our Oracle-based operations pursuant to our Fiscal 2008 Oracle Restructuring Plan. These future restructuring expenses may be material and may include costs for severance, costs of vacating facilities and costs to exit or terminate other duplicative activities. Future restructuring expenses pertaining to our Oracle-based operations are expected to be incurred over the remainder of calendar 2008 and are recorded to our operating expenses in the period that these expenses are incurred.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of our consolidated results of operations or financial position that would have been reported had the BEA acquisition and the Debt Issuance been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as a representation of our future consolidated results of operations or financial position. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements do not reflect any operating efficiencies and associated cost savings that we may achieve with respect to the combined companies.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with Oracle's and BEA's historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in each company's respective annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q.
Accounting Periods Presented
BEA's historical fiscal year ended on January 31 and, for purposes of these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements, its historical results have been aligned to more closely conform to Oracle's May 31 fiscal year end as explained below. No pro forma adjustments were made to conform BEA's accounting policies to Oracle's accounting policies as the impact of policy differences on the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements was not significant.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of February 29, 2008 is presented as if the BEA acquisition and the Debt Issuance had occurred on February 29, 2008, and due to different fiscal period ends, combines the historical balance sheet of Oracle at February 29, 2008 and the historical balance sheet of BEA at January 31, 2008.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations of Oracle and BEA for the nine months ended February 29, 2008 and year ended May 31, 2007 are presented as if the BEA acquisition and the Debt Issuance had taken place on June 1, 2006. Due to different fiscal period ends, the pro forma statement of operations for the nine months ended February 29, 2008 combines the historical results of Oracle for the nine months ended February 29, 2008 and the historical results of BEA for the nine months ended January 31, 2008. The historical results of BEA for the nine months ended January 31, 2008 were derived by taking the historical results of operations of BEA for the year ended January 31, 2008 and subtracting BEA's results of operations for the three months ended April 30, 2007.
The pro forma statement of operations of Oracle and BEA for the year ended May 31, 2007, due to different fiscal period ends, combines the historical results of Oracle for the year ended May 31, 2007 and the historical results of BEA for the year ended April 30, 2007. The historical results of BEA for the year ended April 30, 2007 were derived by taking the historical results of operations of BEA for the year ended January 31, 2007, subtracting BEA's results of operations for the three months ended April 30, 2006 and adding BEA's results of operations for the three months ended April 30, 2007.
Reclassifications
The following reclassifications have been made to the presentation of BEA's historical statements of operations in order to conform to Oracle's presentation:
We acquired BEA Systems, Inc. on April 29, 2008, by means of a merger of a wholly owned subsidiary with and into BEA such that BEA became a wholly owned subsidiary of Oracle. We acquired BEA to, among other things, expand our offering of middleware products.
The estimated purchase price of and purchase price allocation for BEA, as presented below, represents our best estimates. These estimates are preliminary as we are still in the process of finalizing the majority of the amounts presented.
Preliminary Purchase Price
The total preliminary purchase price was $8.6 billion, including estimated fair values of vested BEA stock awards assumed as well as acquisition related transaction costs, and was comprised of:
 
Fair Value Estimate of Stock Awards Assumed
As of April 29, 2008, BEA had approximately 39 million stock awards outstanding. In accordance with the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated January 16, 2008 (Merger Agreement), the conversion ratio of the number of shares to be issued for each stock award assumed was based upon a conversion ratio of 0.8904, which was calculated as the consideration price of $19.375 paid by Oracle for each BEA share of common stock outstanding divided by the average Oracle stock price for five trading days prior to the closing date of April 29, 2008.
The fair values of stock awards assumed were determined using a Black-Scholes valuation model with the following assumptions: weighted average expected life of 3.68 years, weighted average risk-free interest rate of 2.82%, expected volatility of 36% and no dividend yield. The fair values of unvested BEA stock awards will be recorded as operating expenses on a straight-line basis over the remaining service periods, while the fair values of vested options are included in the total purchase price.
Acquisition Related Transaction Costs
Acquisition related transaction costs include estimated legal and accounting fees and other external costs directly related to the acquisition.
Preliminary Purchase Price Allocation
Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, the total purchase price for BEA was allocated to the net tangible assets, intangible assets and in-process research and development acquired based upon their estimated fair values as of April 29, 2008, as set forth below. The excess of the purchase price over the net tangible assets, intangible assets, and in-process research and development acquired was recorded as goodwill. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price was based upon a preliminary valuation and our estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date). The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized relate to restructuring costs, property values, the valuation of intangible assets acquired, certain legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill. Our preliminary purchase price allocation for BEA is as follows:
Intangible Assets
In performing our preliminary purchase price allocation, we considered, among other factors, our intention for future use of acquired assets, analyses of historical financial performance and estimates of future performance of BEA's products. The fair values of intangible assets were calculated using an income approach and estimates and assumptions provided by both BEA and Oracle management. The rates utilized to discount net cash flows to their present values were based on our weighted average cost of capital of 9%. This discount rate was determined after consideration of our rate of return on debt capital and equity and the weighted average return on invested capital. The following table sets forth the preliminary components of intangible assets associated with the BEA acquisition:
 
Customer relationships and software support agreements and related relationships represent the underlying relationships and agreements with BEA's customers. Developed technology is comprised of products that have reached technological feasibility and are a part of BEA's product lines. Core technology represents a combination of BEA processes, patents and trade secrets related to the design and development of BEA's software products. This proprietary know-how can be leveraged to develop new technology and improve our existing software products. Trademarks represent the fair value of brand and name recognition associated with the marketing of BEA's products and services.
In-Process Research and Development
We expense in-process research and development (IPR&D) upon acquisition as it represents incomplete BEA research and development projects that had not reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use as of the date of our acquisition. Technological feasibility is established when an enterprise has completed all planning, designing, coding, and testing activities that are necessary to establish that a product can be produced to meet its design specifications including functions, features, and technical performance requirements. The value assigned to IPR&D of $17 million was determined by considering the importance of each project to our overall development plan, estimating costs to develop the purchased IPR&D into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects when completed and discounting the net cash flows to their present values based on the percentage of completion of the IPR&D projects.
Deferred Revenues
In connection with the preliminary purchase price allocation, we have estimated the fair value of the support obligations assumed from BEA in connection with the acquisition. The estimated fair value of the support obligations was determined using a cost build-up approach. The cost build-up approach determines fair value by estimating the costs relating to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to assume the support obligations. The estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations were based on the historical direct costs related to providing the support services and to correct any errors in BEA software products. We did not include any costs associated with selling efforts or research and development or the related fulfillment margins on these costs. Profit associated with selling efforts was excluded because BEA had concluded the selling efforts on the support contracts prior to the date of our acquisition. The estimated research and development costs have not been included in the fair value determination, as these costs were not deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of acquisition. As a result, in allocating the purchase price we recorded an adjustment to reduce the carrying value of BEA's April 29, 2008 deferred support revenue by $252 million to reflect our estimate of the fair value of BEA's support obligations assumed.
Pre-Acquisition Contingencies
We have evaluated and continue to evaluate pre-acquisition contingencies relating to BEA that existed as of the acquisition date. If these pre-acquisition contingencies that existed as of the acquisition date become probable in nature and estimable during the remainder of the purchase price allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition date), amounts recorded for such matters will be made in the purchase price allocation period and, subsequent to the purchase price allocation period, in our results of operations.
Short-Term Borrowings
Commercial Paper Program
In March 2008, we increased our commercial paper program to $5.0 billion from $3.0 billion (the CP Program). The original dealer agreements entered into in February 2006 with each of Banc of America Securities LLC, JP Morgan Securities Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc. and Merrill Lynch Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement entered into in February 2006 with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, remain in effect and were not changed. Under the CP Program, we may issue and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes (Commercial Paper Notes) pursuant to a private placement exemption from the registration requirements under federal and state securities laws. In connection with the BEA acquisition, we originally issued $1.2 billion of Commercial Paper Notes.
 
As of the original issuance date, the maturities of the Commercial Paper Notes ranged between 7 days and 32 days and the weighted average yield of the Commercial Paper Notes was 2.25%.
Long-Term Borrowings
Senior Notes
In April 2008, we issued $5.0 billion of fixed rate senior notes, of which $1.25 billion of 4.95% senior notes are due April 2013 (2013 Notes), $2.5 billion of 5.75% senior notes are due April 2018 (2018 Notes), and $1.25 billion of 6.50% senior notes are due April 2038 (2038 Notes). We issued these senior notes to finance the acquisition of BEA and for general corporate purposes. Some or all of the 2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes may be redeemed at any time, subject to payment of a make-whole premium. The 2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes pay interest semi-annually.
The effective interest yields of the 2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes (collectively, the Senior Notes) at the date of issuance were 4.96%, 5.76% and 6.52%, respectively. The Senior Notes rank pari passu with the Commercial Paper Notes and all existing and future senior indebtedness of Oracle Corporation.
The following pro forma adjustments are included in our unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share amounts presented in our unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations are based upon the weighted average number of our common shares outstanding and are adjusted for additional stock awards assumed from BEA stock award plans pursuant to the treasury stock method as if those awards had been assumed as they stood at the acquisition date as of the beginning of each period presented without consideration for any subsequent award activity such as exercises and cancellations. Our acquisition of BEA had no impact to our basic weighted average common shares outstanding calculations for the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of operations periods presented.


