FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20081218165026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2Financial Information
     
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On December 18, 2008, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal second quarter ended November 30, 2008. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., December 18, 2008  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2009 Q2 GAAP earnings per share were $0.25, in line with GAAP earnings per share in Q2 of last year. Second quarter GAAP total revenues were up 6% to $5.6 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was down 1% to $1.3 billion. GAAP software revenues were up 8% to $4.5 billion with new software license revenues down 3% to $1.6 billion. GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 14% to $2.9 billion. GAAP services revenues were down 2% to $1.1 billion. GAAP operating income was up 11% to $2.0 billion and GAAP operating margin was up 166 basis points to 35%. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve month basis was $8.1 billion, up 16%.
     Without the $0.04 per share impact of the US dollar strengthening compared to foreign currencies, Oracle's reported Q2 GAAP earnings per share would have been up 11% to $0.29, with total GAAP revenues up 12%, quarterly GAAP net income up 10%, GAAP software revenues up 14%, GAAP new software license revenues up 5%, GAAP software license updates and product support revenues up 20%, GAAP services revenues up 5%, and GAAP operating income up 20%.
     Second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share were up 9% to $0.34, and non-GAAP net income was up 8% to $1.7 billion, compared to the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP total revenues were up 6% to $5.7 billion. Non-GAAP software revenues were up 8% to $4.6 billion and non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 15% to $2.9 billion.
      Without the $0.03 per share impact of the US dollar strengthening compared to foreign currencies, Oracle's reported Q2 non-GAAP earnings per share would have been up 18% to $0.37, with non-GAAP net income up 17%, non-GAAP total revenues up 13%, non-GAAP total software revenues up 15%, and non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues up 21%.
     "Our non-GAAP operating income grew 25% in constant currency to $2.6 billion in Q2, resulting in operating margins of 46%," said Oracle Executive Vice President and CFO, Jeff Epstein. "In addition, Oracle generated $7.6 billion in free cash flow in the past twelve months, up 15% over the same period last year."
 
     "We signed our largest on-demand sales force automation contract this quarter," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "This was just one of several recent wins over salesforce.com. We also sold our first database machine, launching an all new and important business for Oracle."
Q2 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Oracle will hold a conference call and web broadcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. (PST) / 5:00 p.m. (EST). To access the live web broadcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at . Please hold down your control key while pressing refresh to ensure that the web link is visible.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
Supplemental Financial Tables
Supplemental financial materials regarding these results are available on our Investor Relations website at: . To receive these supplemental financial tables and other Investor Relations alerts directly, please subscribe to Oracle's RSS feeds via the RSS link on our website.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
About Oracle
Oracle Corporation is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, please visit our Web site at oracle.com or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
 
Trademarks
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
  Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially.  We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions (including the global economic crisis) could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures.  (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support.  (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or services or new versions of existing or acquired products or services.  (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing operations.  (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales.  (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices or cause us to lose customers.   A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at .  All information set forth in this release is current as of December 18, 2008. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
     
 
 
     
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the tables, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:


