FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20081016060121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Approval of Fiscal Year 2009 Executive Bonus Plan
At Oracle Corporation's 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on October 10, 2008, our stockholders approved Oracle's Fiscal Year 2009 Executive Bonus Plan (the "Bonus Plan"). The Bonus Plan provides for the payment of annual cash bonuses to eligible senior officers based upon the attainment of certain performance criteria established by the Compensation Committee such as improvement in Oracle's pre-tax profit on a non-GAAP basis and revenue related goals linked to a particular area of responsibility. The maximum bonus payment that our Chief Executive Officer may receive under the Bonus Plan for fiscal 2009 would be $13,623,000, although the actual bonus amount will be based on achievement of the performance goals. The maximum bonus payment that any other participant may receive under the Bonus Plan for fiscal 2009 is based on a fixed multiple of a target bonus for the participant and would be less than the maximum bonus payment that our Chief Executive Officer may receive under the Bonus Plan.
A description of the Bonus Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.24 to this report.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 10.24
Description of the Fiscal Year 2009 Executive Bonus Plan
Participants in the Fiscal Year 2009 Executive Bonus Plan (the "Bonus Plan") are chosen solely at the discretion of the Compensation Committee. Our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, our Presidents and all of our Executive Vice Presidents are eligible to be considered for participation in the Bonus Plan. As of August 14, 2008, there were 10 persons chosen to participate for fiscal 2009. No person is automatically entitled to participate in the Bonus Plan in any bonus plan year. We may however pay discretionary bonuses, or other types of compensation, outside the Bonus Plan which may or may not be deductible. However, no employee has a guaranteed right to such discretionary compensation as a substitute for a performance award in the event that performance targets are not met or that stockholders fail to approve the material terms of the Bonus Plan.
Eligibility.
The Compensation Committee approved the adoption of the Bonus Plan, which is part of the overall compensation program for our executives, on August 14, 2008.
History.
The purpose of the Bonus Plan is to motivate the participants to achieve our financial performance objectives and to reward them when those objectives are met with bonuses that are intended to be deductible by us to the maximum extent possible as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code").
Purpose.
The Bonus Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee, consisting of no fewer than two members of the Board, each of whom qualifies as an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Administration.
Under the Bonus Plan, participants will be eligible to receive awards based upon the attainment, in fiscal 2009, and certification of, certain performance criteria established by the Compensation Committee. For fiscal 2009:
Determination of Awards.
The Compensation Committee adopted the performance measures on August 14, 2008, within 90 days after the start of fiscal 2009. Each Sales and Consulting Participant's total bonus amount under the Bonus Plan is calculated by summing the applicable individual bonuses for each performance measure. For all participants, the applicable individual bonus for their performance measure or measures is related to the amount by which the target for each performance measure is exceeded or missed. If the individual performance target bonus calculation results in a negative number, the individual bonus for such performance measure is zero. The details of each of the formulas with respect to the criteria have not been included in this proxy statement in order to maintain the confidentiality of our revenue, profit, expense and/or margin expectations, which we believe are confidential commercial or business information, the disclosure of which would adversely affect Oracle. In the event of the termination or resignation of a participant during fiscal 2009, we may have the person who assumes the responsibilities of that participant assume the same bonus structure as that participant, but adjusted, as determined by the Compensation Committee, to take into account that such person did not serve in that capacity for the entire fiscal year.
All awards will be paid by August 15, 2009, unless a participant has requested to defer receipt of an award in accordance with the Oracle's Deferred Compensation Plan.
Payment of Awards.
 
The amounts that will be paid pursuant to the Bonus Plan are not currently determinable. The maximum bonus payment that our Chief Executive Officer may receive under the Bonus Plan for fiscal 2009 would be $13,623,000. The maximum bonus payment that any other participant may receive under the Bonus Plan for fiscal 2009 is based on a fixed multiple of a target bonus for such participant and would be less than the maximum bonus payment that our Chief Executive Officer may receive under the Bonus Plan.
Maximum Award.
The Compensation Committee may terminate the Bonus Plan, in whole or in part, suspend the Bonus Plan, in whole or in part from time to time, and amend the Bonus Plan, from time to time, including the adoption of amendments deemed necessary or desirable to correct any defect or supply omitted data or to reconcile any inconsistency in the Bonus Plan or in any award granted thereunder, so long as stockholder approval has been obtained, if required in order for awards under the Bonus Plan to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. The Compensation Committee may amend or modify the Bonus Plan in any respect, or terminate the Bonus Plan, without the consent of any affected participant. However, in no event may such amendment or modification result in an increase in the amount of compensation payable pursuant to any award.
Amendment and Termination.
In order to be eligible for an award under the Bonus Plan, a participant must be actively employed by us through the date of payment. If a participant's employment with us terminates for any reason prior to such date of payment, the participant will not be eligible for any award under the Bonus Plan, and no award under the Bonus Plan will be paid to the participant (determined without regard to any election by a participant to defer receipt of an award).
Termination of Employment.
Under present federal income tax law, participants will realize ordinary income equal to the amount of the award received in the year of receipt. That income will be subject to applicable income and employment tax withholding by Oracle. In the event that a participant has requested to defer receipt of an award, FICA taxes will be applied in the year the award is deferred, and income tax withholding will be collected in the year of ultimate payment. We will receive a deduction for the amount constituting ordinary income to the participant, provided that the Bonus Plan satisfies the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, which limits the deductibility of nonperformance-related compensation paid to certain corporate executives, and otherwise satisfies the requirements for deductibility under federal income tax law.
Federal Income Tax Consequences.


