FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20080118111411.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On January 16, 2008, Oracle Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Oracle"), BEA Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("BEA") and Bronco Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle ("Merger Subsidiary") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") pursuant to which Merger Subsidiary will, subject to the satisfaction or waiver of the conditions therein, merge with and into BEA, the separate corporate existence of Merger Subsidiary shall cease and BEA shall be the successor or surviving corporation of the merger (the "Merger").
Upon the consummation of the Merger, (i) BEA will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Oracle and (ii) each share of BEA common stock will be converted into the right to receive $19.375 in cash, without interest. In addition, options to acquire BEA common stock, BEA restricted stock unit awards, BEA restricted stock awards and other equity-based awards denominated in shares of BEA common stock outstanding immediately prior to the consummation of the Merger will be converted into options, restricted stock unit award, restricted stock awards or other equity-based award, as the case may be, denominated in shares of Oracle common stock based on formulas contained in the Merger Agreement, except for equity-based awards held by a person who is not an employee of, or a consultant to, BEA or any of its subsidiaries, which equity-based awards shall be converted into the right to receive cash based on formulas contained in the Merger Agreement.
The transaction is subject to BEA stockholder approval, regulatory clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 and the applicable merger control laws of the European Commission and other jurisdictions, and other customary closing conditions.
The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both BEA and Oracle and further provides that, upon termination of the Merger Agreement under certain circumstances, (i) BEA may be obligated to pay Oracle a termination fee of $250,000,000 and (ii) Oracle may be obligated to pay to BEA a reverse termination fee of $500,000,000.
In connection with the Merger, Oracle entered into voting agreements with Alfred Chuang, the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of BEA and certain stockholders of BEA affiliated with Carl C. Icahn that beneficially own approximately 13% of BEA's common stock, pursuant to which they have agreed to vote their shares of BEA stock in favor of the Merger (the "Voting Agreements").
The Merger Agreement and the Voting Agreements have been filed as exhibits to this Form 8-K to provide information regarding the terms of the agreements and are not intended to modify or supplement any factual disclosures about Oracle or BEA in Oracle's public reports filed with the SEC. In particular, the Merger Agreement and the Voting Agreements are not intended to be, and should not be relied upon as, disclosures regarding any facts and circumstances relating to Oracle and BEA.
The representations and warranties may also be subject to a contractual standard of materiality different from those generally applicable to stockholders. The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the Voting Agreements does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by reference to such agreements. A copy of the Merger Agreement is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto, and the Voting Agreements with the stockholders affiliated with Carl C. Icahn and Alfred Chuang are filed, respectively, as Exhibit 2.2 and 2.3, hereto, each of which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events
On January 16, 2008, Oracle and BEA issued a joint press release announcing that they had entered into the Merger Agreement.
A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements about Oracle and BEA including statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning Oracle's proposed acquisition of BEA. Actual events or results may differ materially from those described, expressed or implied in this press release due to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of Oracle or BEA. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the possibility that the transaction will not close or that the closing may be delayed, general economic conditions, industry specific conditions and the possibility that Oracle or BEA may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. In addition, please refer to the documents that Oracle and BEA, respectively, file with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. These filings identify and address other important factors that could cause Oracle's and BEA's respective financial and operational results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements set forth in this document. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on the results of operations or financial condition of Oracle or BEA. Oracle and BEA are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this document to conform to actual results.
Additional Information about the Merger and Where to Find it
In connection with the proposed merger, BEA will file a proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") Additionally, BEA and Oracle will file other relevant materials in connection with the proposed acquisition of BEA by Oracle pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Oracle, Bronco Acquisition Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle, and BEA. The materials to be filed by BEA with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Investors and security holders of BEA are urged to read the proxy statement and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger.
Oracle, BEA and their respective directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees, under SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies of BEA stockholders in connection with the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Oracle's executive officers and directors in Oracle's most recent Form 10-K and in other relevant materials filed with the SEC when they become available. Information concerning the interests of BEA's participants in the solicitation, which may, in some cases, be different than those of BEA stockholders generally, is set forth in the materials filed with the SEC on Form 10-K and will be set forth in the proxy statement relating to the merger when it becomes available.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: January 18, 2008
 
Exhibit
 

Exhibit 2.3
This VOTING AGREEMENT (this ""), dated as of January 16, 2008, is entered into by and among each of the individuals listed as "Stockholder" on the signature pages hereof (" and, collectively, the "") and Oracle Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
Stockholder
Stockholders
Parent
WHEREAS, contemporaneously with the execution of this Agreement, Parent, Bronco Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and BEA Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), are entering into an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of the date hereof (the ""), providing, among other things, for the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company (the ""); and
Merger Sub
Company
Merger Agreement
Merger
WHEREAS, Parent and Merger Sub, as a condition to its willingness to enter into the Merger Agreement, have required assurances from the Stockholders regarding such Stockholder's support for the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and agreement as to the other matters set forth in this Agreement, and the Stockholders have agreed to provide such assurances by entering into this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, the Company has approved the entry by Parent, Merger Sub and Stockholders into this Agreement for purposes of Section 203 of the Delaware Law and has amended its Company Rights Agreement so that this Agreement does not cause a "Shares Acquisition Date" or "Distribution Date" to occur under the Company Rights Agreement.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the respective representations, warranties, covenants and agreements set forth in this Agreement and in the Merger Agreement, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1. . For the purposes of this Agreement, capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section 1. Other capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Merger Agreement.
Certain Definitions
"" means all shares of Company Common Stock and any other equity securities of the Company which are Beneficially Owned by such Stockholder or any of its Affiliates and are acquired after the date hereof and prior to the termination of this Agreement.
Additional Owned Shares
"" has the meaning set forth in the Merger Agreement; , , that the Company shall be deemed not to be an Affiliate of Stockholder.
Affiliate
provided
however
"," "" and "" have the meanings set forth in Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Beneficially Owned
Beneficial Owner
Beneficial Ownership
"" means the Owned Shares and Additional Owned Shares.
Covered Shares
"" means all shares of Company Common Stock and any other equity securities of the Company which are Beneficially Owned by such Stockholder or any of its Affiliates as of the date hereof.
Owned Shares
"" has the meaning assigned thereto in hereof.
Term
Section 6
"" means the earlier of (x) the date of the Stockholder Meeting to approve the Merger or the Merger Agreement and (y) May 30, 2008.
Termination Date
"" means, with respect to a security, the transfer, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, assignment or other disposition (whether by sale, merger, consolidation, liquidation, dissolution, dividend, distribution or otherwise) of such security or the Beneficial Ownership thereof, the offer to make such a transfer or other disposition, and each option, agreement, arrangement or understanding, whether or not in writing, to effect any of the foregoing; , that "Transfer" shall not include the holding or transfer by the Stockholder of Covered Shares in or to margin accounts or its prime brokerage accounts or holdings or transfers to its other brokerage accounts or custody arrangements. As a verb, "" shall have a correlative meaning.
Transfer
provided
Transfer
2. .
Stockholder Vote
(a) . The parties understand that the Company will call a stockholders meeting to be held on or after April 4, 2008, and the Stockholders agree that at any meeting of the stockholders of the Company held on or after April 4, 2008, however called, or at any adjournment thereof, or in any other circumstance in which the vote, consent or other approval of the stockholders of the Company is sought with respect to the Merger Agreement or any Acquisition Proposal or any proposal relating to the Merger Agreement or any Acquisition Proposal, each Stockholder shall, and shall cause any other holder of record of any Covered Shares to (i) appear at each such meeting or otherwise cause all Covered Shares to be counted as present thereat for purposes of calculating a quorum and (ii) vote (or cause to be voted), or execute and deliver a written consent (or cause a written consent to be executed and delivered) covering, all Covered Shares (A) in favor of the Merger, the execution and delivery by the Company of the Merger Agreement and the adoption and approval of the Merger Agreement and the terms thereof, in favor of each of the other actions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and in favor of any action in furtherance of any of the foregoing; (B) against (i) any Acquisition Proposal or any proposal relating to an Acquisition Proposal, (ii) any merger agreement or merger (other than the Merger Agreement and the Merger), consolidation, combination, sale of substantial assets, reorganization, recapitalization, dissolution, liquidation or winding up of or by the Company, or (iii) any amendment of the Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws that, in the case of each of the foregoing clauses (i) through (iii) would (1) impede, frustrate, prevent or nullify any provision of this Agreement, the Merger Agreement or the Merger, (2) result in a breach in any respect of any covenant, representation, warranty or any other obligation or agreement of the Company under the Merger Agreement, or (3) change in any manner the voting rights of the Covered Shares. No Stockholder shall commit or agree to take any action inconsistent with the foregoing.
Voting Agreement
 
(b) . Concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, each Stockholder agrees to deliver to Parent an irrevocable proxy in the form attached as hereto (the ""), which shall be irrevocable to the extent permitted by applicable law, covering all Covered Shares. Each Stockholder hereby represents to Parent that any proxies heretofore given in respect of the Covered Shares are not irrevocable and that any such proxies are hereby revoked, and each Stockholder agrees to promptly notify the Company of such revocation. Each Stockholder hereby affirms that the Proxy is given in connection with the execution of the Merger Agreement and that such irrevocable proxy is given to secure the performance of the duties of Stockholder under this Agreement. Each Stockholder hereby further affirms that the Proxy is coupled with an interest and may under no circumstances be revoked. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such irrevocable proxy is executed and intended to be irrevocable in accordance with the provisions of Section 212 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. If for any reason the proxy granted herein is not irrevocable, each Stockholder agrees to vote the Covered Shares in accordance with hereof.
Irrevocable Proxy
Exhibit A
Proxy
Section 2(a)
3. . Each Stockholder hereby covenants and agrees that between the date hereof and earlier of: (x) the first record date (the "Record Date") established (in compliance with Section 6.02 of the Merger Agreement) after the date hereof by the Company with respect to the Stockholder Meeting to approve the Merger or the Merger Agreement and (y) the Termination Date, except as contemplated by this Agreement and the Merger Agreement, such Stockholder shall not (a) offer to Transfer, Transfer or consent to any Transfer of any or all of the Covered Shares or any interest therein without the prior written consent of Parent and (b) enter into any contract, option or other agreement or understanding with respect to any Transfer of any or all Covered Shares or any interest therein. Each Stockholder hereby covenants and agrees that from the date hereof until the date of the Stockholder Meeting, such Stockholder shall not (a) grant any proxy, power-of-attorney or other authorization or consent in or with respect to any or all of the Covered Shares, (b) deposit any or all of the Covered Shares into a voting trust or enter into a voting agreement or arrangement with respect to any or all of the Covered Shares or (c) take any other action that would make any representation or warranty of such Stockholder contained herein untrue or incorrect in any material respect or in any way restrict, limit or interfere in any material respect with the performance of such Stockholder's obligations hereunder or the transactions contemplated hereby or by the Merger Agreement. Any attempted Transfer of Covered Shares or any interest therein in violation of this Section 3 shall be null and void. This Section 3 shall not prohibit a Transfer of the Covered Shares by Stockholder (A) if such Stockholder is an individual (i) to any member of such Stockholder's immediate family, or to a trust for the benefit of such Stockholder or any member of such Stockholder's immediate family, or (ii) upon the death of such Stockholder, or (B) if such Stockholder is a partnership or limited liability company, to one or more partners or members of such Stockholder or to an affiliated entity under common control with such Stockholder; providedthat a Transfer referred to in this sentence shall be permitted only if, as a precondition to such Transfer, the transferee agrees in a writing, reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Parent, to be bound by all of the terms of this Agreement.
No Disposition
,
4. .
Additional Agreements
(a) . In the event of any stock split, stock dividend, merger, reorganization, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company affecting
Certain Events
 
the Covered Shares or the acquisition of Additional Owned Shares or other securities or rights of the Company by Stockholder or any of its Affiliates, (i) the type and number of Covered Shares shall be adjusted appropriately and (ii) this Agreement and the obligations hereunder shall automatically attach to any additional Covered Shares or other securities or rights of the Company issued to or acquired by Stockholder or any of its Affiliates.
(b) . Each Stockholder hereby (i) waives and agrees not to exercise any rights of appraisal or rights to dissent from the Merger that such Stockholder may have and (ii) agrees not to commence or participate in, and to take all actions necessary to opt out of any class in any class action with respect to, any claim, derivative or otherwise, against Parent, Merger Sub, the Company or any of their respective successors relating to the negotiation, execution or delivery of this Agreement or the Merger Agreement or the consummation of the Merger, including any claim (x) challenging the validity of, seeking to enjoin the operation of, any provision of this Agreement or (y) alleging a breach of any fiduciary duty of the Board of Directors of the Company in connection with the Merger Agreement or the transactions contemplated thereby.
Waiver of Appraisal and Dissenters' Rights and Actions
(c) . Unless required by applicable law, each Stockholder shall not, and shall cause its Representatives not to, make any press release, public announcement or other public communication that criticizes or disparages this Agreement and the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, without the prior written consent of Parent. Each Stockholder hereby (i) consents to and authorizes the publication and disclosure by Parent of such Stockholder's identity and holding of Covered Shares, and the nature of such Stockholder's commitments, arrangements and understandings under this Agreement, and any other information that Parent reasonably determines to be necessary in any SEC disclosure document in connection with the Merger or any other transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement and (ii) agrees as promptly as practicable to notify Parent of any required corrections with respect to any written information supplied by it specifically for use in any such disclosure document.
Communications
(d) . Each Stockholder hereby agrees, while this Agreement is in effect, to notify Parent promptly in writing of the number and description of any Additional Owned Shares.
Additional Owned Shares
5. . Each Stockholder hereby represents and warrants to Parent as follows:
Representations and Warranties of Stockholder
(a) . Subject to normal margin and prime brokerage accounts, such Stockholder is the Beneficial Owner of the shares of Company Common Stock set forth on (the ""). The Disclosed Owned Shares constitute all of the capital stock and any other equity securities of the Company Beneficially Owned by such Stockholder and its Affiliates on the date hereof and neither such Stockholder nor any of its Affiliates is the Beneficial Owner of, or has any right to acquire (whether currently, upon lapse of time, following the satisfaction of any conditions, upon the occurrence of any event or any combination of the foregoing) any shares of Company Common Stock or any other equity securities of the Company or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of Company Common Stock or such other equity securities, in each case other than the
Title
Schedule I
Disclosed Owned Shares
 
Disclosed Owned Shares. Such Stockholder has all necessary voting power, power of disposition and power to issue instructions with respect to the matters set forth in and hereof and all other the matters set forth in this Agreement, in each case with respect to all of the Owned Shares with no limitations, qualifications or restrictions on such rights, subject to applicable securities laws and the terms of this Agreement.
Sections 3
4
(b) . Such Stockholder has all necessary power and authority and legal capacity to execute, deliver and perform all of such Stockholder's obligations under this Agreement, and consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, and no other proceedings or actions on the part of such Stockholder are necessary to authorize the execution, delivery or performance of this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.
Authority
(c) . This Agreement has been duly and validly executed and delivered by such Stockholder and, assuming due authorization, execution and delivery hereof by Parent, constitutes a legal, valid and binding agreement of Stockholder, enforceable against such Stockholder in accordance with its terms. If Stockholder is married, and any of the Covered Shares constitute community property or spousal approval is otherwise necessary for this Agreement to be legal, binding and enforceable, this Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by, and constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of, Stockholder's spouse, enforceable in accordance with its terms. None of the Covered Shares is subject to any voting trust or other agreement or arrangement with respect to the voting of such Covered Shares.
Due Execution and Delivery
(d) . None of the execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Stockholder, the consummation by such Stockholder of the transactions contemplated hereby or compliance by such Stockholder with any of the provisions hereof will conflict with or result in a breach, or constitute a default (with or without notice of lapse of time or both) under any provision of, any trust agreement, loan or credit agreement, note, bond, mortgage, indenture, lease or other agreement, instrument, permit, concession, franchise, license, judgment, order, notice, decree, statute, law, ordinance, rule or regulation applicable to such Stockholder or to such Stockholder's property or assets.
No Conflict or Default
(e) . There is no suit, claim, action, investigation or proceeding pending or, to the knowledge of such Stockholder, threatened against such Stockholder at law or in equity before or by any Governmental Entity that could reasonably be expected to impair the ability of such Stockholder to perform its obligations hereunder or consummate the transactions contemplated hereby.
No Litigation
6. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the term (the "") of this Agreement, the Proxy granted pursuant hereto and the obligations of the parties hereto shall commence on the date hereof and shall terminate upon the earliest of (i) the mutual agreement of Parent and Stockholder, (ii) the Effective Time; (iii) the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms; and (iv) any decrease in the Merger Consideration, change in the form of such consideration or any other change in the Merger Agreement that is material and adverse to the Stockholder; that nothing herein shall relieve any party hereto from liability for any breach of this Agreement occurring during the Term of this Agreement.
Termination
Term
provided
 
7. . Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prohibit any Stockholder who is an officer or member of the Board of Directors of the Company from taking any action solely in his or her capacity as an officer or member of the Board of Directors of the Company or from taking any action with respect to any Acquisition Proposal as an officer or member of such Board of Directors.
No Limitation
8. .
Miscellaneous
(a) . This Agreement (together with and ) and the Proxy constitutes the entire agreement among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all other prior agreements and understandings, both written and oral, among the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
Schedule I
Exhibit A
(b) . Each Stockholder agrees to take any other actions reasonably requested by Parent in order to vest, perfect, confirm or record the rights granted to Parent hereunder.
Further Assurances
(c) . This Agreement shall not be assigned by operation of law or otherwise without the prior written consent of the Stockholders (in the case of any assignment by Parent) or Parent (in the case of an assignment by a Stockholder); that Parent may assign its rights and obligations hereunder to Merger Sub or any other Subsidiary of Parent, but no such assignment shall relieve Parent of its obligations hereunder.
No Assignment
provided
(d) . The parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Binding Successors
(i) subject to Section 8(d)(iii), prior to the Record Date, each Stockholder agrees that this Agreement and the Proxy and the obligations hereunder and thereunder shall attach to the Covered Shares Beneficially Owned by such Stockholder and its Affiliates and shall be binding upon any person to which legal or Beneficial Ownership of such Covered Shares shall pass prior to the Record Date, whether by operation of law or otherwise, including, without limitation, Stockholder's heirs, guardians, administrators or successors;
(ii) between the Record Date and the Termination Date, each Stockholder agrees that this Agreement and the Proxy and the obligations hereunder and thereunder shall attach to the Covered Shares Beneficially Owned by such Stockholder and its Affiliates. In the event that any Stockholder shall Transfer any Covered Shares between the Record Date and the Termination Date, which Transfers are made through privately negotiated transaction, by operation of law or otherwise (including, without limitation, Transfers to such Stockholder's heirs, guardians, administrators or successors), it shall be a condition of such Transfer that such person agrees to be a party to this Agreement and shall be bound by the terms of this Agreement; provided, however, that any Transfer occurring through the NASDAQ shall be free and clear of this Agreement and the obligations arising hereunder (and the transferee thereof shall take such Covered Shares free and clear of all such obligations arising hereunder) and that Parent shall have no right with regard to such Covered Shares; and
(iii) anything to the contrary in this Agreement notwithstanding, following the Termination Date, each Stockholder may Transfer Covered Shares by any means and such Transfers shall be free and clear of this Agreement and the Proxy and the obligations arising
 
hereunder and thereunder (and the transferee thereof shall take such Covered Shares free and clear of this Agreement and the Proxy and the obligations arising hereunder and thereunder) and that Parent shall have no right with regard to such Covered Shares.
(e) . This Agreement may not be amended, changed, supplemented or otherwise modified except by an instrument in writing signed on behalf of Parent and Stockholder.
Amendments
(f) . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be given (and shall be deemed to have been duly received) (i) upon receipt, if delivered personally or by first class mail, postage pre-paid, (ii) on the date of transmission, if sent by facsimile transmission (with confirmation of receipt), or (iii) on the Business Day after dispatch, if sent by nationally recognized, documented overnight delivery service, as follows:
Notice
:
If to Stockholder
At the address and facsimile number set forth on hereto.
Schedule I
:
Copy to
Icahn Enterprises Limited Partnership
Icahn Associates Corp. and Affiliated Companies
767 5th Avenue
New York, NY 10153
Attention: Keith L. Schaitkin, Deputy General Counsel
Facsimile: (212) 688-1158
:
If to Parent
Oracle Corporation
500 Oracle Parkway
Redwood City, CA 94065
Attention: General Counsel
Facsimile No.: (650) 633-1813
:
Copy to
Latham & Watkins LLP
505 Montgomery Street Suite #2000
San Francisco, CA 94111
Attention: John M. Newell, Esq.
Facsimile No.: (415) 395-8095
or to such other address or facsimile number as the person to whom notice is given may have previously furnished to the other parties hereto in writing in the manner set forth above.
 
(g) . This Agreement shall be deemed severable; the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of the balance of this Agreement or of any other term hereof, which shall remain in full force and effect. If any of the provisions hereof are determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the parties hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible.
Severability
(h) . All rights, powers and remedies provided under this Agreement or otherwise available in respect hereof at law or in equity shall be cumulative and not alternative, and the exercise of any such right, power or remedy by any party hereto shall not preclude the simultaneous or later exercise of any other such right, power or remedy by such party.
Remedies
(i) . The failure of any party hereto to exercise any right, power or remedy provided under this Agreement or otherwise available in respect hereof at law or in equity, or to insist upon compliance by any other party hereto with such party's obligations hereunder, and any custom or practice of the parties at variance with the terms hereof, shall not constitute a waiver by such party of such party's right to exercise any such or other right, power or remedy or to demand such compliance.
No Waiver
(j) . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure solely to the benefit of each party hereto, and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to confer upon any other person any rights or remedies of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.
No Third Party Beneficiaries
(k) . This Agreement, and all matters arising hereunder or in connection herewith, shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the internal laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws.
Governing Law
(l) . Each party to this Agreement hereby irrevocably and unconditionally (i) consents to the submission to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware sitting in Wilmington, Delaware for any actions, suits or proceedings arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transaction contemplated hereby, (ii) agrees not to commence any action, suit or proceeding relating thereto except in such court and in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, (iii) agrees that service of any process, summons, notice or document by U.S. registered mail, or otherwise in the manner provided for notices in hereof, shall be effective service of process for any such action, suit or proceeding brought against it in any such court, (iv) waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any such action, suit or proceeding in such courts and (v) agrees not to plead or claim in any court that any such action, suit or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
Submission to Jurisdiction
Section 8(f)
(m) . EACH PARTY HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN
Waiver of Jury Trial
 
RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT AND ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY. EACH PARTY CERTIFIES AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT (A) NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE EITHER OF SUCH WAIVERS, (B) IT UNDERSTANDS AND HAS CONSIDERED THE IMPLICATIONS OF SUCH WAIVERS, (C) IT MAKES SUCH WAIVERS VOLUNTARILY AND (D) IT HAS BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS .
SECTION 8(M)
(n) . The parties hereto hereby agree that irreparable damage to Parent would occur, damages would be difficult to determine and would be an insufficient remedy and no other adequate remedy would exist at law or in equity, in each case in the event that any provision of this Agreement were not fully performed by each Stockholder in accordance with its specific terms or were otherwise breached. Each Stockholder hereby waives any defenses based on the adequacy of any other remedy, whether at law or in equity, that might be asserted as a bar to the remedy of specific performance of any of the terms or provisions hereof or injunctive relief in any action brought therefor by Parent. Accordingly, the parties hereto acknowledge and hereby agree that in the event of any breach or threatened breach by a Stockholder of any of its covenants or obligations set forth in this Agreement, Parent shall be entitled (in addition to any other remedy that may be available at law or in equity, including monetary damages) to seek and obtain (i) a decree or order of specific performance to enforce the observance and performance of such covenant or obligation, and (ii) an injunction restraining such breach or threatened breach.
Specific Performance
(o) . The descriptive headings used herein are inserted for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. The words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by "without limitation" whether or not they are in fact followed by such words or words of like import. The parties hereto have participated jointly in the negotiation and drafting of this Agreement. No provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted for or against any party hereto because that party or its legal representatives drafted the provision. The words "hereof," "hereto," "hereby," "herein," "hereunder" and words of similar import, when used in this Agreement, shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not any particular section in which such words appear.
Interpretation
(p) . This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all of which, taken together, shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
(q) . Except as otherwise provided herein, each party hereto shall pay such party's own expenses incurred in connection with this Agreement.
Expenses
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Parent and the Stockholders have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The undersigned stockholder ("") of BEA Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), hereby (i) irrevocably grants to, and appoints, Oracle Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and any person designated in writing by Parent, and each of them individually, Stockholder's proxy and attorney-in-fact (with full power of substitution), for and in the name, place and stead of Stockholder, to vote all of the Covered Shares or grant a consent or approval in respect of the Covered Shares, in accordance with the terms of this Proxy and (ii) revokes any and all proxies heretofore given in respect of the Covered Shares.
Stockholder
Company
Parent
This Proxy is granted pursuant to that certain Voting Agreement, dated as of January 16, 2008, by and between Parent and Stockholder (the ""). For the purposes of this Proxy, "" has the meaning set forth in the Voting Agreement.
Voting Agreement
Covered Shares
Stockholder hereby affirms that the irrevocable proxy set forth in this Proxy is given in connection with the execution of that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger (the ""), dated as of the date hereof, by and among Parent, Bronco Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), and the Company, providing, among other things, for the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company, and that such irrevocable proxy is given to secure the performance of the duties of Stockholder under the Voting Agreement. Stockholder hereby further affirms that the irrevocable proxy set forth in this Proxy is coupled with an interest and may under no circumstances be revoked. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, this Proxy is executed and intended to be irrevocable in accordance with the provisions of Section 212 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Merger Agreement
Merger Sub
The attorneys-in-fact and proxies named above are hereby authorized and empowered by the undersigned at any time after the date hereof and prior to the termination of the Voting Agreement to act as the undersigned's attorney-in-fact and proxy to vote the Covered Shares, and to exercise all voting, consent and similar rights of the undersigned with respect to the Covered Shares (including, without limitation, the power to execute and deliver written consents), at every annual, special, adjourned or postponed meeting of the stockholders of the Company and in every written consent in lieu of such a meeting, solely in the manner set forth in Section 2(a) of the Voting Agreement. No Stockholder shall commit or agree to take any action inconsistent with the foregoing.
Any obligation of the undersigned hereunder shall be binding upon the successors and assigns of the undersigned, except as set forth in Section 8(d) of the Voting Agreement.
This Proxy will terminate and become null and void and of no further effect upon the termination of the Voting Agreement pursuant to Section 6 thereof.
Dated: January 16, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 


