FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20080625161416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2Financial Information
     
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On June 25, 2008, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended May 31, 2008. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

     
Exhibit 99.1
     
For Immediate Release
     REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., June 25, 2008  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced that fiscal 2008 Q4 GAAP earnings per share were up 27% to $0.39, compared to the same quarter last year. Fourth quarter GAAP revenues were up 24% to $7.2 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was up 27% to $2.0 billion. Total GAAP software revenues were up 26% to $6.0 billion. GAAP new software license revenues were up 27% with database and middleware new license revenues up 23% and applications new license revenues up 36%. GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 25% to $2.8 billion. GAAP service revenues were up 18% to $1.3 billion.
     Fourth quarter non-GAAP earnings per share were up 27% to $0.47, and non-GAAP net income was up 27% to $2.4 billion.
     For fiscal year 2008, GAAP earnings per share were up 30% to $1.06. Fiscal year 2008 GAAP revenues were up 25% to $22.4 billion, while annual GAAP net income was up 29% to $5.5 billion. Total GAAP new software license revenues for the year were up 28% to $7.5 billion with database and middleware new license revenues up 24% and applications new license revenues up 38%. For the year, GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 24% to $10.3 billion. Annual GAAP service revenues were up 21% to $4.6 billion. GAAP operating margins were up nearly 200 basis points to 35% in FY08.
 
     Fiscal year 2008 non-GAAP earnings per share were up 29% year over year to $1.30. Annual non-GAAP net income was up 28% to $6.8 billion compared to fiscal year 2007.
     "Non-GAAP operating margins were up 200 basis points in FY08 to a record 43.0%," said President and CFO Safra Catz. "Non-GAAP earnings per share were up 29% for the year and non-GAAP EPS has tripled over the last five years. Oracle has delivered solid results year-after-year."
     "Oracle's application new software license revenues grew 38% in FY08, while SAP's new software license revenues grew only 13% in their most recent fiscal year," said President Charles Phillips. "This is the third consecutive year we've taken applications market share from SAP."
     "Four years ago we publicly announced a five year plan to deliver non-GAAP earnings per share at a compound annual growth rate of 20%," said Oracle CEO Larry Ellison. "During the past four years we exceeded our plan and delivered a non-GAAP EPS CAGR of over 26%."
     
Q4 Earnings Announcement
     Oracle will hold a conference call and web broadcast today, June 25, to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. (PDT) / 5:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the live web broadcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at . Please hold down your control key while pressing refresh to ensure that the weblink is visible.
th
http://www.oracle.com/investor
     
About Oracle
     Oracle is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, including supplemental financial information, please visit or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
     
Trademarks
     Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
 
     Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or services or new versions of existing or acquired products or services. (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices or cause us to lose customers. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at . All information set forth in this release is current as of June 25, 2008. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the tables, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:
: Business combination accounting rules require us to account for the fair value of support contracts assumed in connection with our acquisitions. Because these are typically one-year contracts, our GAAP revenues for the one year period subsequent to our acquisition of a business do not reflect the full amount of software license updates and product support revenues on assumed support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired entity. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenues. We believe this adjustment is useful to investors as a measure of the ongoing performance of our business because we have historically experienced high renewal rates on support contracts, although we cannot be certain that customers will renew these contracts.
 - 
Support deferred revenue
: We have excluded the effect of stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measures. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees, and we believe such compensation contributed to the revenues earned during the periods presented and also believe it will contribute to the generation of future period revenues, we continue to evaluate our business performance excluding stock-based compensation expenses. Stock-based compensation expenses will recur in future periods.
 - 
Stock-based compensation expenses
: We have excluded the effect of amortization of intangibles expenses from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income measures. Amortization of intangible assets expenses is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to future period revenues as well. Amortization expenses will recur in future periods.
 - 
Amortization of intangible assets expenses
: We incurred significant expenses in connection with our acquisitions and also incurred certain other operating expenses or income, which we generally would not have otherwise incurred in the periods presented as a part of our continuing operations. Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of in-process research and development expenses, personnel related costs for transitional employees, stock-based compensation expenses (in addition to the stock-based compensation expenses described above), integration related professional services, certain business combination contingency adjustments after the purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other operating expenses or income, net. Substantially all of the stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses primarily resulted from unvested options assumed in acquisitions whose vesting was fully accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the original terms of those options. Restructuring expenses consist of Oracle employee severance and other exit costs. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effect of these items on our total operating expenses. Although acquisition related expenses and restructuring expenses are not recurring with respect to past acquisitions, we will incur these expenses in connection with any future acquisitions.
 - 
Acquisition related and other expenses, and restructuring expenses
For the year ended May 31, 2008, acquisition related and other expenses include a gain on property sale of $57 million. For the year ended May 31, 2007, acquisition related and other expenses included a $52 million benefit related to the settlement of a lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft, Inc. on behalf of the U.S. government. This lawsuit was filed in October 2003, prior to our acquisition of PeopleSoft and represented a pre-acquisition contingency that we identified and assumed in connection with our acquisition of PeopleSoft. In October 2006, we agreed to pay the U.S. government $98 million to settle this lawsuit. Since the purchase price allocation period for PeopleSoft ended in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the favorable difference of $52 million between the estimated exposure recorded for this lawsuit during the purchase price allocation period and the actual settlement amount has been included in our consolidated statement of operations for the year ended May 31, 2007 as a component of acquisition related and other expenses.


