FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20080326163602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code (650) 506-7000
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On March 26, 2008, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended February 29, 2008. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
     REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., March 26, 2008  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2008 Q3 GAAP earnings per share were up 30% to $0.26, compared to the same quarter last year. Third quarter total GAAP revenues were up 21% to $5.3 billion, while quarterly GAAP operating income was up 35% to $1.9 billion and GAAP net income was up 30% to $1.3 billion. Total GAAP software revenues were up 21% to $4.2 billion with GAAP new software license revenues up 16% to $1.6 billion. Database and middleware new license revenues were up 20% and applications new license revenues were up 7%. GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 25% to $2.6 billion. Service revenues were up 21% to $1.1 billion, compared to the same quarter last year.
     Third quarter non-GAAP earnings per share were up 23% to $0.30, and non-GAAP net income was up 22% to $1.6 billion, compared to the same quarter last year.
     "Oracle delivered another quarter of strong financial results and earnings growth. In Q3, we once again exceeded our non-GAAP EPS growth target of 20%," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "For the first three quarters of this year we have grown our operating cash flow 55%, 3 times faster than at this point in the past five years."
     "Database and middleware new software license revenues growth accelerated to 20% in the third quarter," said Oracle President, Charles Phillips. "We continue to grow faster and take market share from IBM."
     "Software license updates and product support revenues were up 23% on a non-GAAP basis to $2.6 billion. By next quarter we will pass $10 billion for the year," said
 
Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "Our non-GAAP operating income grew to $2.2 billion with our margins increasing nearly 200 basis points to 41% up from 39% in Q3 of last year. Our operating margins are now substantially higher than our competitors, including Microsoft, reflecting the unique leverage in our business."
Q3 Earnings Announcement
Oracle will hold a conference call and web broadcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. (PDT) / 5:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the live web broadcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at . Please hold down your control key while pressing refresh to ensure that the weblink is visible.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
About Oracle
Oracle is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, including supplemental financial information, please visit or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
Trademarks
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or new versions of existing or acquired products. (4) We have an active acquisition program (including our recently announced proposed acquisition of BEA
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
 
Systems, Inc.) and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at . All information set forth in this release is current as of March 26, 2008. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the table, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures, and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:
: Business combination accounting rules require us to account for the fair value of support contracts assumed in connection with our acquisitions. Because these are typically one-year contracts, our GAAP revenues for the one-year period subsequent to our acquisitions do not reflect the full amount of software license updates and product support revenues on assumed support contracts that would have otherwise been recorded by the acquired entities. The non-GAAP adjustment is intended to reflect the full amount of such revenues. We believe this adjustment is useful to investors as a measure of the ongoing performance of our business because we have historically experienced high renewal rates on support contracts, although we cannot be certain that customers will renew these contracts.
 - 
Support deferred revenue
: We have excluded the effect of stock-based compensation expenses from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees, and we believe such compensation contributed to the revenues earned during the periods presented and also believe it will contribute to the generation of future period revenues, we continue to evaluate our business performance excluding stock-based compensation expenses. Stock-based compensation expenses will recur in future periods.
 - 
Stock-based compensation expenses
: We have excluded the effect of amortization of intangibles from our non-GAAP operating expenses and net income. Amortization of intangible assets expense is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to future period revenues as well. Amortization expenses will recur in future periods.
 - 
Amortization of intangible assets expenses
: We incurred significant expenses in connection with our acquisitions and also incurred certain other operating expenses or income, which we would not have otherwise incurred in the periods presented. Acquisition related and other expenses primarily consist of in-process research and development expenses, integration related professional services, stock-based compensation expenses (in addition to the stock-based compensation expenses described above), personnel related expenses for transitional employees, certain business combination contingency adjustments after the purchase price allocation period has ended, and certain other operating expenses or income. Stock-based compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other expenses primarily resulted from unvested options assumed in acquisitions whose vesting was fully accelerated upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those options. Restructuring expenses consist of Oracle employee severance and other exit costs. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effect of these items on our total operating expenses. Although acquisition related expenses and restructuring expenses are not recurring with respect to past acquisitions, we will incur these expenses in connection with future acquisitions.
 - 
Acquisition related and other expenses, and restructuring expenses
For the three and nine months ended February 29, 2008, acquisition related and other expenses include a gain on property sale of $57 million. For the nine months ended February 28, 2007, acquisition related and other expenses included a $52 million benefit related to the settlement of a lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft, Inc. on behalf of the U.S. government. This lawsuit was filed in October 2003, prior to our acquisition of PeopleSoft and represented a pre-acquisition contingency that we identified and assumed in connection with our acquisition of PeopleSoft. In October 2006, we agreed to pay the U.S. government $98 million to settle this lawsuit. Business combination accounting standards require that after the end of the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment that results from a pre-acquisition contingency should be included as an element of net income in the period of settlement, versus an adjustment to the original purchase price allocation. Since the purchase price allocation period for PeopleSoft ended in the third quarter of fiscal 2006, the favorable difference of $52 million between the estimated exposure recorded for this lawsuit during the purchase price allocation period and the actual settlement amount has been included in our consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended February 28, 2007 as a component of acquisition related and other expenses.


