FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20080827170640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Appointment of Executive Vice President and Prospective Chief Financial Officer
On August 27, 2008, Oracle Corporation announced that Jeffrey E. Epstein has accepted our offer to become an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Epstein, age 52, is expected to start as an Executive Vice President on September 8, 2008 and his appointment as Chief Financial Officer will be effective the day following the filing of our Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. Safra A. Catz, our current Chief Financial Officer, will remain as one of our Presidents and a Director on our Board. Mr. Epstein will be reporting to Ms. Catz and will have responsibility for finance, controller's office, finance operations, tax, treasury, real estate, investor relations, audit and customer leasing.
Prior to joining us, Mr. Epstein served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Oberon Media, Inc., a privately held Internet game technology provider and publisher from April 2007 to June 2008. From June 2005 until its sale in March 2007, Mr. Epstein was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of ADVO, Inc., a direct mail media company. Mr. Epstein was a member of the Board of Directors of Revonet, Inc., a B2B marketing and database company, from January 2004 to December 2005, Chairman of the Board from December 2004 to December 2005 and the Acting President and Chief Executive Officer from June 2004 through December 2004. Mr. Epstein was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of VNU's Media Measurement and Information (MMI) Group, whose businesses include Nielsen Media Research, from March 2002 until December 2003. Mr. Epstein also serves as a director of MDC Partners Inc. and priceline.com Incorporated.
Mr. Epstein's employment with us will be at-will. His offer letter provides that he will be paid an annual salary of $700,000 and his target bonus for fiscal year 2009 will be $1,200,000, which will be awarded based on corporate and individual performance. After Mr. Epstein's start date, a proposal will be submitted to the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors to grant Mr. Epstein an option to purchase 1,000,000 shares of our common stock under our Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan. This option will vest 25% each year beginning one year after the grant date. When Mr. Epstein joins us in September, we also expect to enter into our standard form of indemnification agreement with him pursuant to which we will indemnify him for certain actions he takes in his capacity as an Executive Vice President and our Chief Financial Officer. We will also reimburse Mr. Epstein for reasonable relocation expenses (so long as such expenses do not exceed $200,000) and for certain taxes owed as a result of our payment of these relocation expenses.
The description above is a summary of Mr. Epstein's offer letter and employment agreement and is qualified in its entirety by the offer letter and employment agreement which are filed as Exhibit 10.23 to this report.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
EXHIBIT LIST

Exhibit 10.23
August 19, 2008
Jeffrey Epstein
Dear Jeff:
We are pleased to offer you the position of Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President with Oracle Corporation reporting to Safra Catz, President. Your appointment as Chief Financial Officer shall be effective on the later of (i) the day you begin your Oracle employment and (ii) the day following the filing of Oracle's Form 10-Q for the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. We offer you starting compensation at an annual rate of $700,000. In addition, your FY09 target bonus will be $1,200,000.
The following global functions will report to you: Finance, controller's office, finance operations, tax, treasury, real estate, audit and customer leasing. While Oracle's internal audit group reports directly to the Audit Committee, it will report indirectly to you, and you will have administrative oversight of it.
The Compensation Committee of Oracle's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") has approved the terms set forth in this offer. Following your commencement date, a proposal will be submitted to the Compensation Committee requesting approval to grant you an option to purchase 1,000,000 shares of common stock, pursuant to the 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan") with an effective grant date of the date the Compensation Committee approves such option grant. The option will be priced based upon Oracle's stock price at the close of the market on the option grant date. The option will be issued under a written agreement and will be subject to qualification under all applicable securities regulations. As long as you remain continuously employed by Oracle, you will be eligible to exercise your right to purchase one quarter of the option shares per year, beginning one year after the Compensation Committee grants your option, subject to the terms of your written option agreement.
If you accept this offer, Oracle will pay reasonable, documented relocation expenses to assist with real estate fees and/or moving costs excluding buy down points, up to a maximum of $200,000. Reimbursement will be upon submission of proof of expenditure. Tax gross up will be provided on reimbursed expenses that are non deductable.
This offer of employment is contingent upon your satisfactory completion of Oracle's pre-employment background screening process, which will include education and employment verification as well as a criminal records search.
You agree to comply with the Insider Trading restrictions applicable to Oracle Officers and Directors for one fiscal quarter following your separation from Oracle, regardless of the reason for your separation. Among other things, under these restrictions, you are prohibited from trading in Oracle securities during the last month of the fiscal quarter and until two full trading days following Oracle's earnings announcement for that fiscal quarter. Notwithstanding the foregoing, your proposed stock option referenced in this letter agreement shall be subject to the time limitations on exercise set forth in Section 6(i) of the Plan.
To accept this offer, please sign below as well as the enclosed Employment Agreement and Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate, Proprietary Information Agreement, Data Privacy Agreement, and any remaining new hire documents and return them to Oracle, ATTN: Americas HRSSC, 1001 Sunset Boulevard, Rocklin, CA 95765 for delivery by August 26, 2008.
If you have any questions regarding the conditions of your offer, please do not hesitate to contact me at (xxx) xxx-xxxx. This offer remains open until August 26, 2008.
We look forward to having you join Oracle and being a valued member of the Executive Team.
Sincerely,
/s/ Joyce Westerdahl
Joyce Westerdahl Senior Vice President, Human Resources
Enclosure: New Employee Packet
I hereby agree to the following
 
Employment Agreement & Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate
Please read this Agreement carefully before you agree to its terms by signing it. You may wish to consult an attorney prior to signing the Agreement. The Agreement sets forth certain important benefits, terms and conditions related to your employment with Oracle. It also sets forth the mutual agreement between you and Oracle to arbitrate any dispute or claim arising out of or related to your Oracle employment and to waive all rights to a trial or hearing before a court or jury.
Proprietary Information
Oracle's proprietary rights and confidential information are among the company's most important assets. In addition to signing this Agreement as a condition of employment, you also must sign the Proprietary Information Agreement included in the New Employee Packet.
Oracle Policies
Your adherence to the Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, set forth in a booklet included in the New Employee Packet, is vital to Oracle and to your success at Oracle. When you sign this Agreement, you are agreeing to thoroughly familiarize yourself with the Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and you are agreeing to abide by it. You also agree to take Oracle's Ethics and Business Conduct course, available on-line through Oracle's intranet. In addition, when you sign this Agreement, you are acknowledging that you have read the letter addressing Oracle's Safety Program highlights included in the New Employee Packet. The Oracle Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and the Oracle Employee Handbook are on the Oracle intranet and accessible to all employees. You agree, after beginning employment, to access the Employee Handbook and thoroughly familiarize yourself with Oracle policies and to abide by them. Additionally, from time to time, Oracle will communicate important information about its policies by way of electronic mail notification and/or the Oracle intranet. By signing this agreement, you agree to thoroughly review these policy communications and to abide by them.
Oracle is a government contractor, and, as such, certain federal, state, and local laws may place prohibitions or other restrictions on the ability of former government workers, and/or relatives of current or former government workers, to be employed by or to perform certain work on behalf of Oracle. By signing below, you are affirming that your employment with Oracle, and any work you perform while employed by Oracle, will not conflict with any such prohibitions or restrictions.
Employment Eligibility
In order to comply with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, the federal government requires the company to examine documents which prove your legal right to work in the United States. Please see the Verification of Eligibility for Employment information which also is a part of the New Employee Packet.
Benefits
Oracle offers its employees a comprehensive medical, dental, vision, life and disability insurance package through Oracleflex, a flexible benefits program. Oracleflex may require employee contributions. The company also offers benefits including a 401(k) Savings and Retirement Plan, an Employee Stock Purchase Plan, a Dependent Care Reimbursement Plan and an Educational Reimbursement Plan. The details of these plans are included in the New Employee Packet and/or are available on the Oracle intranet. You understand that you must make your Oracleflex benefits elections within the limited time period set forth in the communication accompanying your personal identification number that you will receive after beginning employment.
By signing this Agreement, you authorize Oracle to deduct from your compensation any and all contributions associated with your elections under Oracleflex, the Oracle 401(k) Savings and Investment Plan, the Oracle Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or any other benefit offered by Oracle in which you participate and for which an employee contribution is required.
Your starting compensation, position and other terms and conditions related to your employment are set forth in the offer letter you received. By signing this Agreement, you also are agreeing to the terms and conditions set forth in the offer letter. Oral or written representations contradicting or supplementing the terms of the offer letter are not valid.
 
At-Will Employment
Employment at Oracle is at-will. The company makes no express or implied commitment that your employment will have a minimum or fixed term, that Oracle may take adverse employment action only for cause or that your employment is terminable only for cause. Either you or Oracle may terminate the employment relationship at any time for any reason. Additionally, Oracle may take any other employment action at any time for any reason. No one at Oracle may make, unless specifically authorized in writing by Oracle's Board of Directors, any promise, express or implied, that employment is for any fixed term or that cause is required for the termination of or change in the employment relationship.
Equal Employment Opportunity and Escalation Process
Oracle believes that all employees should be treated fairly and equitably in conformance with its Equal Employment Opportunity policies. We take personnel action without regard to race, color, national origin, sex, marital status, age, religion, disability or sexual orientation. Our commitment to these policies applies to every phase of the employment relationship, and we make every effort to comply with these policies. If, however, you feel you have not been treated fairly in some way in your Oracle employment, you agree, before taking any other action, to make a written complaint to a Director of the Human Resources Department and to allow individuals within the Department a reasonable period of time in which to investigate and informally attempt to resolve your issues.
Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate
You and Oracle understand and agree that any existing or future dispute or claim arising out of or related to your Oracle employment, or the termination of that employment, will be resolved by final and binding arbitration and that no other forum for dispute resolution will be available to either party, except as to those claims identified below. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both you and Oracle and it shall be enforceable by any court having proper jurisdiction.
The arbitration proceedings shall be conducted pursuant to the Federal Arbitration Act, and in accordance with the National Rules for the Resolution of Employment Disputes of the American Arbitration Association or the Employment Arbitration Rules and Procedures adopted by Judicial Arbitration & Mediation Services ("JAMS"). The arbitrator will have all the powers a judge would have in dealing with any question or dispute that may arise before, during and after the arbitration.
     
Claims Not Covered
Claims for benefits under the workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and state disability insurance laws are not covered by this Arbitration Agreement. Additionally, claims by you or by Oracle for temporary restraining orders or preliminary injunctions ("temporary equitable relief") in cases in which such temporary equitable relief would be otherwise authorized by law are not covered by this Arbitration Agreement. In such cases where temporary equitable relief is sought, the trial on the merits of the action will occur in front of, and will be decided by, the arbitrator, who will have the same ability to order legal or equitable remedies as could a court of general jurisdiction.
          
Costs
Oracle agrees to bear the costs of the arbitrator's fee and all other costs related to the arbitration, assuming such costs are not expenses that you would be required to bear if you were bringing the action in a court of law. You and Oracle shall each bear your own attorneys' fees incurred in connection with the arbitration, and the arbitrator will not have authority to award attorneys' fees unless a statute at issue in the dispute or other appropriate law authorizes the award of attorneys' fees to the prevailing party, in which case the arbitrator shall have the authority to make an award of attorneys' fees as permitted by the applicable statute or law.
          
Consideration
You understand and acknowledge that you are offered employment in consideration of your promise to arbitrate claims. In addition, the promises by Oracle and by you to resolve claims by arbitration in accordance with the provisions of this Arbitration Agreement, rather than through the courts, provide consideration for each other.
     
Knowing and Voluntary Agreement; Complete Agreement
You understand and agree that you have been advised to consult with an attorney of your own choosing before signing this Employment Agreement & Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate, and you have had an opportunity to do so.
 
YOU FURTHER UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT YOU HAVE READ THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT & MUTUAL AGREEMENT TO ARBITRATIE CAREFULLY. BY SIGNING IT, YOU ARE EXPRESSLY WAIVING ANY AND ALL RIGHTS TO A TRIAL OR HEARING BEFORE A COURT OR JURY OF ANY AND ALL DISPUTES AND CLAIMS SUBJECT TO ARBITRATION UNDER THIS ARBITRATION AGREEMENT WHICH CLAIMS YOU MAY NOW OR IN THE FUTURE HAVE.
This Arbitration Agreement contains the complete agreement between Oracle and you regarding the subject of arbitration and alternate dispute resolution, and supersedes any and all prior written, oral, or other types of representations and agreements between Oracle and you, if any.
Severability
If any portion of this Employment Agreement & Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate shall, for any reason, be held invalid or unenforceable, or contrary to public policy or any law, the remainder of the Agreement shall not be affected by such invalidity or unenforceability, but shall remain in full force and effect, as if the invalid or unenforceable term or portion thereof had not existed within this Agreement.
Modification
This Employment Agreement & Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate may be modified only in a writing, expressly referencing this Agreement and you by full name, signed by you and Oracle's Board of Directors.
By signing below you are agreeing that you have read and understood every provision of this Agreement and that, in consideration for your employment at Oracle, you agree to abide by its terms.
ACKNOWLEDGED AND ACCEPTED:


