FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20080429104659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
On April 29, 2008, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of January 16, 2008 (the "Merger Agreement") by and among Oracle Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Oracle"), BEA Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("BEA") and Bronco Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle ("Merger Subsidiary"), Merger Subsidiary was merged with and into BEA, with BEA surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of BEA common stock (other than shares held in BEA's treasury or owned directly or indirectly by Parent or Merger Subsidiary) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger was cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive $19.375 in cash, without interest.
Section 8  Other Events
 
On April 29, 2008, Oracle issued a press release relating to the completion of the acquisition of BEA. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a)
Financial Statements of Business Acquired
The financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date this report on Form 8-K must be filed.
(b)
Pro Forma Financial Information
The pro forma financial statements required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date this report on Form 8-K must be filed.
(d)
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 29, 2008
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:
Deborah Hellinger
Oracle
1.650.506.5158
deborah.hellinger@oracle.com
Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) announced today that it had received approval of the European Commission and subsequently completed its acquisition of BEA Systems, Inc.
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., APRIL 29, 2008 -
"The addition of BEA will accelerate innovation by bringing together two companies with a common vision of a modern service-oriented architecture (SOA) infrastructure," said Oracle President Charles Phillips. "Together, Oracle and BEA will provide a series of complementary and well-engineered middleware products, allowing customers to more easily build, deploy, and manage applications in a secure environment."
About Oracle
Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL) is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, please visit our Web site at .
http://www.oracle.com
Trademarks
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements about Oracle and BEA. When used in this document, the words "anticipates", "may", "can", "believes", "expects", "projects", "intends", "likely", similar expressions and any other statements that are not historical facts, in each case as they relate to Oracle and BEA, the management of either such company or the transaction are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. In making any such statements, the person making them believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions. However, any such statement may be influenced by factors that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected or anticipated. These forward-looking statements are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. There are various important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in any such forward-looking statements, many of which are beyond the control of Oracle and BEA, including: the impact of general economic conditions in regions in which either such company currently does business, industry conditions, including competition, fluctuations in exchange rates and currency values, capital expenditure
requirements, legislative or regulatory requirements, changes in the tax laws, interest rates, access to capital markets and our ability to quickly and efficiently integrate our acquisitions with our existing business. The actual results or performance by Oracle or BEA could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on the results of operations or financial condition of Oracle or BEA.


