FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20080918160940.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2Financial Information
     Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On September 18, 2008, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended August 31, 2008. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
     REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., Sept. 18, 2008  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2009 Q1 GAAP earnings per share were up 28% to $0.21 compared to the same quarter last year. First quarter total GAAP revenues were up 18% to $5.3 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was up 28% to $1.1 billion. Total GAAP software revenues were up 20% to $4.2 billion with new software license revenues up 14% to $1.2 billion. GAAP Software license updates and product support revenues were up 23% to $2.9 billion. GAAP Services revenues were up 9% to $1.2 billion. GAAP operating margins were up 170 basis points to 29%.
     First quarter non-GAAP earnings per share were up 32% to $0.29, and non-GAAP net income was up 32% to $1.5 billion, compared to the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP total revenues were up 18% to $5.4 billion. Non-GAAP total software revenues were up 21% to $4.3 billion and non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 24% to $3.0 billion.
     "Our non-GAAP EPS grew 32% in Q1, and this comes after the 27% growth in Q1 of last year," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "We also delivered a Q1 non-GAAP operating margin of 40%, our highest ever in Q1, up 350 basis points from the quarter a year ago. We continue to deliver consistent earnings growth well ahead of plan."
     "Oracle has once again increased its database market share according to the latest Gartner research report," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "Oracle's 49% market share in the survey year 2007 was greater than the market share of the next 4 vendors combined: IBM, Microsoft, Teradata, and Sybase."
 
     "More-and-more Oracle database customers are buying our integrated suite of standards based Fusion middleware to modernize their computing environments," said Charles Phillips, Oracle President. "The Oracle product line of database, middleware and applications is by far the most extensive in the enterprise software industry. That enables us to offer a broader range of solutions than any other software vendor."
Q1 Earnings Announcement
Oracle will hold a conference call and web broadcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. (PDT) / 5:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the live web broadcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at . Please hold down your control key while pressing refresh to ensure that the web link is visible.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
About Oracle
Oracle is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, including supplemental financial information, please visit or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
Trademarks
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
  Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially.  We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions could adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability through reductions in IT budgets and expenditures.  (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases, or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support.  (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or new versions of existing or acquired products.  (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues, or may disrupt our existing operations.  (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales.  (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions, and could require us to reduce prices.   A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at .  All information set forth in this release is current as of September 18, 2008. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
     
 
 
     
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the tables, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:


