FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20080312191419.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 10, 2008, BEA Systems, Inc. ("BEA") hosted a town hall meeting to discuss the proposed acquisition of BEA by Oracle Corporation ("Oracle") pursuant to the previously disclosed Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 16, 2008, by and among BEA, Oracle and Bronco Acquisition Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle. A copy of the presentation slides prepared by Oracle for BEA employees in connection with the meeting but which were not used at the meeting and which are now available on BEA's intranet is filed as an exhibit hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This document contains certain forward-looking statements about Oracle and BEA including statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning Oracle's proposed acquisition of BEA. Actual events or results may differ materially from those described, expressed or implied in this press release due to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the control of Oracle or BEA. The potential risks and uncertainties include, among others, the possibility that the transaction will not close or that the closing may be delayed, general economic conditions, industry specific conditions and the possibility that Oracle or BEA may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. In addition, please refer to the documents that Oracle and BEA, respectively, file with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. These filings identify and address other important factors that could cause Oracle's and BEA's respective financial and operational results to differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements set forth in this document. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on the results of operations or financial condition of Oracle or BEA. Oracle and BEA are under no duty to update any of the forward-looking statements after the date of this document to conform to actual results.
Additional Information about the Merger and Where to Find it
In connection with the proposed acquisition of BEA by Oracle, on March 3, 2008, BEA filed a definitive proxy statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Additionally, BEA and Oracle will file other relevant materials in connection with the proposed acquisition of BEA by Oracle pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Oracle, Bronco Acquisition Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle, and BEA. The materials filed by BEA with the SEC may be obtained free of charge at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. Investors and security holders of BEA are urged to read the proxy statement and the other relevant materials when they become available before making any voting or investment decision with respect to the proposed merger because they will contain important information about the merger and the parties to the merger.
Oracle, BEA and their respective directors, executive officers and other members of its management and employees, under SEC rules, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies of BEA stockholders in connection with the proposed merger. Investors and security holders may obtain more detailed information regarding the names, affiliations and interests of certain of Oracle's executive officers and directors in Oracle's most recent Form 10-K and in other relevant materials filed with the SEC when they become available. Information concerning the interests of BEA's participants in the solicitation, which may, in some cases, be different than those of BEA stockholders generally, is set forth in the materials filed with the SEC on Form 10-K and in the proxy statement.
 
(d) Exhibits
99.1     Presentation slides of Oracle Corporation, dated March 10, 2008.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 12, 2008
 
 



