FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20090318161717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Section 2Financial Information
     
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On March 18, 2009, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended February 28, 2009. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 8Other Events
     
Item 8.01 Other Events
Oracle is hereby furnishing the following information:
Oracle announced that its Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock payable on May 8, 2009, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 8, 2009.
Oracle's press release dated March 18, 2009, announcing this cash dividend is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
     
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (d)    Exhibits
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., March 18, 2009  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2009 Q3 GAAP earnings per share were $0.26, up 3% compared to last year. Third quarter GAAP total revenues were up 2% to $5.5 billion, while quarterly GAAP net income was down 1% to $1.3 billion. GAAP software revenues were up 5% to $4.4 billion with new software license revenues down 6% to $1.5 billion. GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 11% to $2.9 billion. GAAP services revenues were down 8% to $1.0 billion. GAAP operating income was up 4% to $1.9 billion and GAAP operating margin was up 54 basis points to 36%. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve month basis was $8.5 billion, up 17%.
     Oracle's Q3 results were impacted by the dramatically reduced value of foreign currencies when compared to US dollars, reducing GAAP earnings by $0.05 per share. If currency exchange rates were the same as they were in Q3 of last year, Oracle's Q3 GAAP earnings per share would have been up 18% to $0.31 rather than up 3% to $0.26, with total GAAP revenues up 11% rather than up 2%, GAAP software revenues up 14% rather than up 5%, GAAP net income up 14% rather than down 1%, and GAAP operating income up 17% rather than up 4%.
     Third quarter non-GAAP earnings per share were up 16% to $0.35, and non-GAAP net income was up 12% to $1.8 billion, compared to the same quarter last year. Non-GAAP total revenues were up 2% to $5.5 billion. Non-GAAP software revenues were up 5% to $4.5 billion and non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 12% to $3.0 billion. Non-GAAP operating income was up 15% to $2.6 billion and non-GAAP operating margin was up 510 basis points to 46%.
 
     If currency exchange rates were the same as they were in Q3 of last year, Oracle's non-GAAP earnings per share would have been up 29% to $0.40, rather than up 16% to $0.35, with total non-GAAP revenues up 12% rather than up 2%, non-GAAP software revenues up 14% rather than up 5%, non-GAAP net income up 24% rather than up 12% and non-GAAP operating income up 26% rather than up 15%.
     Oracle also announced today that its Board of Directors intends to pay a quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share, or $0.20 per share annually, on its common stock. The Board declared the first cash dividend of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock to be paid to shareholders of record as of the close of business on April 8, 2009, with a payment date of May 8, 2009. Future declaration of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of Oracle's Board of Directors.
     "Our non-GAAP operating income was $2.6 billion in Q3, which was an increase of 15% over the same period last year, resulting in operating margins of 46%. In constant currency, non-GAAP operating income grew by 26%," said Oracle Executive Vice President and CFO, Jeff Epstein. "In addition, Oracle generated $8.0 billion in free cash flow in the past twelve months, up 14% over the same period last year."
     "We are committed to delivering value to our stockholders through technology innovation, strategic acquisitions, stock repurchases, and now through a dividend," said Safra Catz, Oracle's President. "We generated $8.0 billion in free cash flow over the last twelve months and we are running our business at record operating margins. We have always been committed to rewarding our stockholders' investments in Oracle and the Board has decided that it is the right time to declare a dividend for our stockholders."
     "If you look past the effect of exchange rates, our new software license revenues for this quarter were higher than our new software license revenues for Q3 of last year," said Oracle President Charles Phillips. "Achieving constant currency growth in new software license sales in this very challenging economy shows that we continue to beat our competitors in both technology and applications."
 
     "But for the strengthening of the US dollar leading to unfavorable currency exchange rates, our non-GAAP earnings per share would have increased 29% in Q3," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "This is a tremendous achievement in the face of the serious slowdown in the world economy."
Q3 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Oracle will hold a conference call and web broadcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. (PDT) / 5:00 p.m. (EDT). To access the live web broadcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at . Please hold down your control key while pressing refresh to ensure that the web link is visible.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
Supplemental Financial Tables
Supplemental financial materials regarding these results are available on our Investor Relations website at: . To receive these supplemental financial tables and other Investor Relations alerts directly, please subscribe to Oracle's RSS feeds via the RSS link on our website.
http://www.oracle.com/investor
About Oracle
Oracle Corporation is the world's largest business software company. For more information about Oracle, please visit our Web site at oracle.com or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
Trademarks
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
       Statements in this press release and accompanying materials relating to the Board of Directors' or Oracle's future plans, intentions and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current plans, intentions and expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially.  We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions, including the recent global economic and financial crisis, could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, through reductions in customer IT budgets and expenditures and through the general tightening of access to credit.  (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support.  (3) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or services or new versions of existing or acquired products or services.  (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations.  (5) Periodic changes to our pricing model and sales organization could temporarily disrupt operations and cause a decline or delay in sales.  (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions and could require us to reduce prices or cause us to lose customers.   A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at .  All information set forth in this release is current as of March 18, 2009. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
http://www.oracle.com/investor
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the tables, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:
For the three and nine months ended February 29, 2008, acquisition related and other expenses include a gain on property sale of $57 million.


