FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20101013140651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Executive Bonus Plan
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Oracle Corporation ("Oracle") previously approved, subject to stockholder approval, the adoption of the Oracle Corporation Executive Bonus Plan (the "Executive Bonus Plan"). The Executive Bonus Plan is a variable cash incentive plan designed to motivate certain executives to achieve financial performance objectives and to reward them when such objectives are met. Further, bonuses paid under the Executive Bonus Plan are intended to be deductible by Oracle to the maximum extent possible as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders of Oracle on October 6, 2010 (the "Annual Meeting"), Oracle's stockholders, upon the recommendation of the Board, approved the adoption of the Executive Bonus Plan.
The foregoing description of the Executive Bonus Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Executive Bonus Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.29 to this report. For a more complete description of the terms of the Executive Bonus Plan, please see "Proposal No. 2  Approve the Oracle Corporation Executive Bonus Plan" (pages 49  51) of Oracle's proxy statement dated September 7, 2010 (the "Proxy Statement") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan
The Board previously approved, subject to stockholder approval, the adoption of the Oracle Corporation Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan (the "2000 Stock Plan"), including an amendment to extend the termination date of the plan by 10 years and increase the number of authorized shares of stock that may be issued under the 2000 Stock Plan by 388,313,015 shares. At the Annual Meeting, Oracle's stockholders, upon the recommendation of the Board, approved the adoption of the 2000 Stock Plan.
The foregoing description of the 2000 Stock Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2000 Stock Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.30 to this report. For a more complete description of the terms of the 2000 Stock Plan, please see "Proposal No. 3  Approve the Oracle Corporation Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan" (pages 52  56) of the Proxy Statement.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The following is a brief description of each matter submitted to a vote at the Annual Meeting, as well as the number of votes cast with respect to each matter. For more information about these proposals, please refer to the Proxy Statement.
 
Proposal No. 1
The stockholders elected each of the following persons as a director to hold office until the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders or until earlier retirement, resignation or removal.
 
Proposal No. 2
The stockholders approved the Executive Bonus Plan with 3,392,798,791 affirmative votes, 568,666,692 votes against, 5,363,838 votes abstaining and 492,657,185 broker non-votes.
Proposal No. 3
The stockholders approved the 2000 Stock Plan with 2,807,711,322 affirmative votes, 1,152,999,553 votes against, 6,118,446 votes abstaining and 492,657,185 broker non-votes.
Proposal No. 4
The stockholders ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Oracle's independent registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending May 31, 2011 with 4,432,051,180 affirmative votes, 23,274,299 votes against and 4,161,027 votes abstaining.
Proposal No. 5
The stockholders defeated a stockholder proposal to request that our Board amend our bylaws to establish a board committee on sustainability with 94,254,086 affirmative votes, 3,371,528,976 votes against, 501,046,259 votes abstaining and 492,657,185 broker non-votes.
 
Proposal No. 6
The stockholders defeated a stockholder proposal to request that our Board amend our bylaws to provide that in uncontested director elections, directors will be elected by a majority vote rather than by a plurality of the votes cast, with 1,239,493,593 affirmative votes, 2,717,584,703 votes against, 9,751,025 votes abstaining and 492,657,185 broker non-votes.
Proposal No. 7
The stockholders defeated a stockholder proposal to request that the Compensation Committee of the Board adopt a policy requiring that senior executives retain at least 75% of net after-tax shares acquired through equity compensation programs until two years following the termination of their employment with 822,387,550 affirmative votes, 3,123,180,770 votes against, 21,261,001 votes abstaining and 492,657,185 broker non-votes.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 13, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.29
1. ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE
1.1 . The purpose of the Oracle Corporation Executive Bonus Plan (the "Plan") is to motivate certain executives to achieve financial performance objectives and to reward them when such objectives are met. To this end, the Plan provides a means of rewarding Participants based on the performance of the Company and/or its lines of business or business units and, where applicable, on a Participant's personal performance. The Plan is intended to permit the payment of bonuses that are deductible to the maximum extent possible as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Purpose
1.2 . The Plan is effective as of July 12, 2010, subject to ratification by an affirmative vote of a majority of the shares of the Company's common stock that are present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote at the Company's 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
Effective Date
2. DEFINITIONS
2.1. shall mean an incentive award earned by a Participant under the Plan for any Performance Period.
""
Actual Award
2.2. shall mean any corporation or other entity (including, but not limited to, partnerships and join ventures) controlled by the Company.
""
Affiliate
2.3. shall mean the Company's Board of Directors.
""
Board
2.4. shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to a specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.
""
Code
2.5. shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board.
""
Committee
2.6. shall mean Oracle Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and any successor corporation.
""
Company
2.7. shall mean the latest possible date that will permit a Target Award or Actual Award to be qualified as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
""
Determination Date
2.8. shall have the meaning given to it in Section 1.2.
""
Effective Date
2.9. shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
""
GAAP
2.10. shall mean as to any Participant for any one year Performance Period, an amount not to exceed $15,000,000; such Maximum Award shall be adjusted upwards or downwards on a pro rata basis to reflect a Performance Period longer or shorter than one year.
""
Maximum Award
2.11. for any Performance Period, shall mean an officer of the Corporation or its subsidiaries who is designated by the Committee to participate in the Plan.
""
Participant
2.12. as to any Performance Period, shall mean the formula or payout matrix established by the Committee pursuant to Section 3.4 in order to determine the Actual Awards (if any) to be paid to Participants. The formula or matrix may differ from Participant to Participant.
""
Payout Formula
2.13. shall mean means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Committee (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant for a Target Award for a Performance Period. As determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals for any Target Award applicable to a Participant may provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) bookings, (b) cash flow, operating cash flow, or cash flow or operating cash flow per share (before or after dividends), (c) customer growth, (d) earnings per share, (e) EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization), (f) net income, (g) net or gross sales, (h) operating expenses, (i) operating income, (j) operating or gross margin, (k) profit margins, (l) profits, (m) reduction in costs/budget attainment, (n) return on assets, (o) return on equity, (p) return on sales, (q) revenue, (r) total return to stockholders, (s) stock price, and (t) working capital. Any criteria used may be measured, as applicable, (i) in absolute terms, (ii) in relative terms, including, but not limited, passage of time (such as year over year growth) and/or against another company or a comparison group of companies designated by the Committee, (iii) on a per-share basis, (iv) against the performance of the Company as a whole or one or more identifiable business units, products, lines of business or segments of the Company, (v) on a pre-tax or after-tax basis, and/or (vi) on a GAAP or non-GAAP basis. Prior to the Determination Date, the Committee shall determine whether any element(s) (for example, but not by way of limitation, the effect of acquisitions) shall be included in or excluded from the calculation of any Performance Goal with respect to any Participants, regardless of whether such determinations result in any Performance Goal being measured on a basis other than GAAP.
""
Performance Goals
2.14. shall generally mean the fiscal year of the Company but it may also mean any such other period of time which may be as short as three months but shall not exceed three fiscal years, as designated by the Committee in its sole discretion with respect to which an Actual Award may be earned. With respect to any Participant, there shall exist no more than three Performance Periods at any one time.
""
Performance Period
2.15. shall mean this Oracle Corporation Executive Bonus Plan, as set forth in this document and as hereafter amended from time to time.
""
Plan
2.16. shall mean the target award payable under the Plan to a Participant for the Performance Period expressed as a specific dollar amount, as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 3.3.
""
Target Award
 
3. SELECTION OF PARTICIPANTS AND DETERMINATION OF AWARDS
3.1. .The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall select the officers who shall be Participants for any Performance Period. Participation in the Plan is in the sole discretion of the Committee, and on a Performance Period by Performance Period basis. Accordingly, an officer who is a Participant for a given Performance Period in no way is guaranteed or assured of being selected for participation in any subsequent Performance Period.
Selection of Participants
3.2. . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish the Performance Goals for all eligible Participants for the Performance Period. Such Performance Goals shall be set forth in writing.
Determination of Performance Goals
3.3. . Each Participant's Target Award shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion and each Target Award shall be set forth in writing.
Determination of Target Awards
3.4. . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Payout Formula or Formulae for purposes of determining the Actual Award (if any) payable to each Participant. Each Payout Formula shall (a) be in writing, (b) be based on a comparison of actual performance to the Performance Goals, (c) provide for the payment of a Participant's Target Award if the Performance Goals for the Performance Period are achieved, and (d) provide for an Actual Award greater than or less than the Participant's Target Award, depending upon the extent to which actual performance exceeds or falls below the Performance Goals. Notwithstanding the preceding, in no event shall a Participant's Actual Award for any Performance Period exceed his or her Maximum Award.
Determination of Payout Formula or Formulae
3.5. . The Committee shall make all determinations under Sections 3.1 through 3.4 on or before the Determination Date.
Date for Determinations
3.6. . After the end of each Performance Period, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant for the Performance Period were achieved or exceeded. The Actual Award for each Participant shall be determined by applying the Payout Formula to the level of actual performance that has been certified by the Committee. Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may eliminate or reduce the Actual Award payable to any Participant below that which otherwise would be payable under the Payout Formula, including discretion that is exercised through the establishment of additional objective or subjective goals.
Determination of Actual Awards
3.7. . In order to be eligible for an Actual Award, a Participant must be actively employed by the Company or a subsidiary through the date of payment of an Actual Award. If a Participant's employment terminates for any reason prior to such date, the Participant will not be eligible for an Actual Award and no such award will be paid to the Participant. For purposes of the Plan, transfer of employment of a Participant between the Company and any one of its subsidiaries or Affiliates (or between subsidiaries or Affiliates) shall not be deemed a termination of employment.
Termination Prior to the Date the Actual Award is Paid
 
3.8. . If a Participant is on a leave of absence at any time during a Performance Period, the Committee may reduce his or her Actual Award proportionately based on the duration of the leave of absence (and subject to further reduction or elimination under Sections 3.6 and 3.7).
Leave of Absence
4. PAYMENT OF AWARDS
4.1. . Each Actual Award that may become payable under the Plan shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Company or subsidiary that employs the Participant (as the case may be), as determined by the Committee. Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to create a trust or to establish or evidence any Participant's claim of any right to payment of an Actual Award other than as an unsecured general creditor with respect to any payment to which he or she may be entitled.
Rights to Receive Payments
4.2. . Payment of each Actual Award shall be made as soon as administratively practicable but in any event within two and one-half calendar months after the end of the Performance Period during which the Actual Award was earned (in the case of any Performance Period based on a fiscal year, by August 15
Timing and Form of Payment
th
thereafter). Each Actual Award shall be paid in cash (or its equivalent) in a single lump sum unless such amounts are otherwise deferred in accordance with Section 7.2.
5. ADMINISTRATION
5.1. . The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall consist of two or more persons appointed by the Board, all of whom shall be "outside directors" as defined under Section 162(m) of the Code and related regulations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of a Committee member to qualify as an "outside director" shall not invalidate the payment of any Actual Award under the Plan.
Administrator
5.2. . The Committee shall have all discretion and authority necessary or appropriate to administer the Plan and to interpret the provisions of the Plan, consistent with qualification of the Plan as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code. All determinations and decisions made by the Committee, the Board, and any delegate of the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.
Committee Authority
5.3. . The Committee, in its sole discretion and on such terms and conditions as it may provide, may delegate all or part of its authority and powers under the Plan to one or more directors and/or officers of the Company; provided, however, that the Committee may not delegate its authority and/or powers with respect to awards that are intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Delegation by the Committee
6. AMENDMENT, TERMINATION AND DURATION
6.1. . The Board or the Committee, each in its sole discretion, may amend or terminate the Plan, or any part thereof, at any time and for any reason. The amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall not, without the consent of
Amendment, Suspension or Termination
 
the Participant, alter or impair any rights or obligations under any Target Award theretofore granted to such Participant. No Actual Award may be granted during any period of suspension or after termination of the Plan.
6.2. . The Plan shall commence on the date specified herein, and subject to Section 6.1 (regarding the Board or the Committee's right to amend or terminate the Plan), shall remain in effect thereafter. As long as the Plan remains in effect, it shall be resubmitted to stockholders at least every five years as required by Section 162(m) of the Code.
Duration of the Plan
7. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
7.1. . The Company or a subsidiary shall withhold all applicable taxes from any Actual Award, including any federal, state and local taxes (including, but not limited to, the Participant's FICA and SDI obligations); notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant defers receipt of payment in accordance with Section 7.2, the Company or a subsidiary shall withhold from the Actual Award only applicable taxes as then required by law.
Tax Withholding
7.2. . The Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash that would otherwise be delivered to a Participant under the Plan under the Company's Deferred Compensation Plan (or any similar successor plan). Any such deferral elections shall be made in compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
Deferrals
7.3. . Nothing in the Plan shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or an Affiliate, as applicable, to terminate any Participant's employment or service at any time, with or without cause. The Company expressly reserves the right, which may be exercised at any time and without regard to when (whether during or after a Performance Period) such exercise occurs, to terminate any individual's employment with or without cause, and to treat him or her without regard to the effect which such treatment might have upon him or her as a Participant.
No Employment Right
7.4. . No executive shall have the right to be selected to receive an award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future award.
Participation
7.5. . Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any award, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company's approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf. The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.
Indemnification
 
7.6. . All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.
Successors
7.7. . No award granted under the Plan may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated. All rights with respect to an award granted to a Participant shall be available during his or her lifetime only to the Participant.
Nontransferability of Awards
7.8. . It is the intent of the Company that the Plan and the awards under the Plan to Participants who are or may become persons whose compensation is subject to Section 162(m) of the Code, satisfy any applicable requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code. Any provision, application or interpretation of the Plan inconsistent with this intent shall be disregarded. However, the Company may also pay discretionary bonuses, or other types of compensation outside the Plan, which may or may not be deductible. The provisions of the Plan may be bifurcated by the Board or the Committee at any time so that certain provisions of the Plan, or any award, required in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code are only applicable to Participants whose compensation is subject to Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m) Conditions; Bifurcation of Plan
7.9. . To the extent that any Actual Bonus under the Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the terms and administration of such Actual Award shall comply with the provisions of such section and good faith reasonable interpretations thereof, and, to the extent necessary to achieve compliance, shall be modified, replaced or terminated at the discretion of the Committee.
Section 409A
7.10. . In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.
Severability
7.11. . Captions are provided herein for convenience only, and shall not serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan.
Captions
 

Exhibit 10.30
This Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive Plan ) is established as a compensatory plan to enable Oracle Corporation (the ) to provide an incentive to eligible employees, officers, independent consultants, directors who are also employees or consultants, and advisers whose present and potential contributions are important to the continued success of the Company; to afford such persons an opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company, and to enable the Company to continue to enlist and retain in its employ the best available talent for the successful conduct of its business. It is intended that this purpose will be effected through the granting of (a) stock options, (b) stock purchase rights, (c) stock appreciation rights and (d) long-term stock awards.
SECTION 1. Purpose.
("Plan"
"Company"
As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
SECTION 2. Definitions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 3. Eligibility.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 4. Stock Subject to the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5. Administration.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee, in its discretion, may grant Options to eligible Participants and shall determine whether such Options shall be Incentive Stock Options ("ISOs") within the meaning of the Code, Nonqualified Stock Options ("NQSOs") or any other type of Option which may exist from time to time. Each Option shall be evidenced by a Grant which shall expressly identify the Option as an ISO or as NQSO (or other type of Option, as applicable), and be in such form and contain such provisions as the Committee shall from time to time deem appropriate. Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee may, at any time, or from time to time, authorize the Company, with the consent of the respective recipients, to issue new Options.
SECTION 6. Stock Options.
The Committee shall determine the number of Shares subject to the Option, the exercise price of the Option, the period during which the Option may be exercised, and all other terms and conditions of the Option, subject to the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Committee shall have discretion to determine whether a Participant has ceased to be employed by the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate of the Company, as appropriate, and the effective date on which such employment terminated or whether such Participant is on an authorized leave of absence.
 
 
 
The Committee, in its discretion, may grant Stock Appreciation Rights to eligible Participants. The following provisions apply to such Stock Appreciation Rights.
SECTION 7. Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 8. Stock Purchase Rights.
 
 
 
 
SECTION 9. Long-Term Stock Awards.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the applicable Long-Term Stock Award agreement, if a Participant terminates employment or his or her consultancy during a Restriction Period for any other reason, then such Participant shall not be entitled to any payment with respect to the Long-Term Stock Award subject to such Restriction Period, unless the Committee shall otherwise determine.
 
SECTION 10. Withholding Taxes.
 
 
Unless specifically provided to the contrary in any Grant or Purchase Agreement, upon a Change of Control, (a) unless outstanding Options and Rights are effectively assumed by the surviving or acquiring corporation or otherwise remain outstanding, such Options and Rights shall become fully vested and exercisable, and any repurchase or resale restrictions applicable to any award granted hereunder shall automatically lapse and such Options or Rights shall expire on the consummation of such Change of Control transaction at such times and on such conditions as the Committee shall determine and (b) if an Option or Right is effectively so assumed or remains outstanding, and the Participant's employment is terminated (within the meaning of Section 6 hereof) by the surviving or acquiring corporation without cause within twelve (12) months after the consummation of such Change of Control transaction, such Option or Right shall accelerate and become immediately and fully exercisable, and any repurchase or resale restrictions applicable to any such award shall automatically lapse, upon such termination.
SECTION 11. Change of Control.
Nothing in the Plan or any award made hereunder shall interfere with or limit in any way the right of the Company or of any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate to terminate any Participant's employment or consulting relationship at any time, with
SECTION 12. Employment Relationship.
 
or without cause, nor confer upon any Participant any right to continue in the employ or service of the Company or any Parent, Subsidiary or Affiliate.
Each award shall be subject to the requirement that, if, at any time, the Committee shall determine, in its discretion, that the listing, registration, or qualification of the Shares subject to such award upon any securities exchange or under any state or federal law, or the consent or approval of any government regulatory body, is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, such award or the issue or purchase of Shares thereunder, such award may not be exercised or paid in whole or in part unless such listing, registration, qualification, consent, or approval shall have been effected or obtained free of any conditions not acceptable to the Committee. The Committee shall be under no obligation to obtain or seek such listing, registration, qualification, consent or approval.
SECTION 13. General Restriction.
The holder of an Option, Right or Long-Term Stock Award shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares covered by the Option, Right or Long-Term Stock Award until the Shares subject to such award have been entered upon the records of the duly authorized transfer agent of the Company. Except as otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, no adjustment shall be made for dividends or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such stock certificate so entered.
SECTION 14. Rights as a Stockholder.
Except as otherwise provided in Section 6(f) and 9(a) hereof, no awards made hereunder shall be assignable or transferable by the Participant except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and as otherwise consistent with the specific Plan provisions relating thereto or as the Committee in its sole discretion shall approve either for or without consideration. During the life of the Participant, an Option, Right or Long-Term Stock Award shall be exercisable only by him or her, or by a transferee as permitted by Section 6(f) or 9(a) hereof and any award agreement.
SECTION 15. Limitations on Assignment of Awards.
Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board, the submission of the Plan to the stockholders of the Company for approval, nor any provisions of the Plan shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board to adopt such additional compensation arrangements as it may deem desirable, including without limitation, arrangements providing for the granting of Options otherwise than under the Plan, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
SECTION 16. Nonexclusivity of the Plan.
This Plan shall become effective on the date that it is adopted by the Board of the Company and approved by the stockholders of the Company, in any manner permitted by applicable corporate law.
SECTION 17. Adoption and Stockholder Approval.
Awards may be granted pursuant to this Plan from time to time prior to the expiration hereof, which shall occur on the date of the Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2020.
SECTION 18. Term of Plan.
 
SECTION 19. Amendment or Termination of Plan.
 
 
With respect to Awards subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Plan is intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, and the provisions of the Plan and any Award Document shall be interpreted in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, and the Plan shall be operated accordingly. If any provision of the Plan or any term or condition of any Award would otherwise frustrate or conflict with this intent, the provision, term or condition will be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid this conflict
SECTION 20. Section 409A of the Code.
.
The Plan and each Award Document shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without application of the conflicts of law principles thereof.
SECTION 21. Governing Law.
 


