FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20100121124253.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2Financial Information
 
On January 14, 2010, Oracle Corporation ("Oracle") issued a total of $1,758,898,000 of short-term promissory notes ("CP Notes") under its $5,000,000,000 Commercial Paper Program. The maturities of the CP Notes are between one month and five months, with approximately 84% of the CP Notes having maturities of one month, two months or three months. The weighted average yield of the CP Notes, including issuance costs, is 0.165%. Oracle has $3,241,102,000 of capacity remaining under its Commercial Paper Program.
The CP Notes are exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, are unsecured and rank with all of Oracle's other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The CP Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity and are not subject to voluntary prepayment.
pari passu
We expect to use these funds, along with our internally available cash, cash from operations and cash from previous borrowings, to pay for our pending acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc.
 
On January 21, 2010, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing the European Commission's approval of Oracle's acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) announced today that it had received regulatory approval from the European Commission for its acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Oracle expects unconditional approval from China and Russia and intends to close the transaction shortly.
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., January 21, 2010 -
Oracle will host an all-day live event for customers, partners, press and analysts on January 27
th
, 2010 at 9:00 AM Pacific time, at its headquarters in Redwood Shores, California. Details are available at .
www.oracle.com/sun
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
This press release contains certain forward-looking statements about Oracle and Sun, including statements that involve risks and uncertainties concerning Oracle's acquisition of Sun. When used in this press release, the words "will", "expects", "intends" and other similar expressions and any other statements that are not historical facts are intended to identify those assertions as forward-looking statements. Any such statement may be influenced by a variety of factors, many of which are beyond the control of Oracle or Sun, that could cause actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those projected, described, expressed or implied in this press release due to a number of risks and uncertainties. Potential risks and uncertainties include, among others: the possibility that the transaction will not be cleared by relevant regulatory authorities or will not close, the possibility that the closing may be further delayed, the anticipated synergies of the combined companies may not be achieved after closing, the combined operations may not be successfully integrated in a timely manner, if at all, general economic conditions in regions in which either company does business, and the possibility that Oracle or Sun may be adversely affected by other economic, business, and/or competitive factors. Accordingly, no assurances can be given that any of the events anticipated by the forward-looking statements will transpire or occur, or if any of them do so, what impact they will have on the results of operations or financial condition of Oracle or Sun.
In addition, please refer to the documents that Oracle and Sun, respectively, file with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K for additional risks. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this press release. Neither Oracle nor Sun is under any duty to update any of the information in this press release.
About Oracle
Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL) is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, please visit our Web site at .
http://www.oracle.com
Trademark
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Contact:
Karen Tillman
Oracle Corporate Communications
+1.650.607.0326
karen.tillman@oracle.com


