FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20100325161508.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 8.01 Other Events
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT LIST
EXHIBIT 99.1
Table of Contents
Section 2Financial Information
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On March 25, 2010, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended February 28, 2010. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 8Other Events
Item 8.01  Other Events
Oracle is hereby furnishing the following information:
Oracle announced that its Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock payable on May 5, 2010, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 14, 2010.
Oracle's press release dated March 25, 2010, announcing this cash dividend is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)   Exhibits
 
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
 
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., March 25, 2010  Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2010 Q3 GAAP total revenues were up 17% to $6.4 billion, while non-GAAP total revenues were up 18% to $6.5 billion. Excluding the impact of Sun Microsystems, Inc., which Oracle acquired on January 26, 2010, GAAP total revenue grew 7%. GAAP new software license revenues were up 13% to $1.7 billion, and up 10% to $1.7 billion excluding Sun. GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 13% to $3.3 billion, while non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 12% to $3.3 billion. GAAP operating income was down 5% to $1.8 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 29%. Non-GAAP operating income was up 13% to $2.9 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 45%. GAAP net income was down 10% to $1.2 billion, while non-GAAP net income was up 9% to $1.9 billion. GAAP earnings per share were $0.23, down 11% compared to last year while non-GAAP earnings per share were up 9% to $0.38. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $8.2 billion.
"Our solid top line growth, coupled with disciplined expense management, was key in generating $8.0 billion of free cash flow over the last twelve months," said Oracle CFO Jeff Epstein.
"The Sun integration is going even better than we expected," said Oracle President, Safra Catz. "We believe that Sun will make a significant contribution to our fourth quarter earnings per share as well as meet the profitability goals we set for next year."
"Exadata is the fastest growing product in Oracle's history," said Oracle President, Charles Phillips. "Introduced a little over a year ago, the Exadata pipeline is now approaching $400 million with Q4 bookings forecast at nearly $100 million. This strengthens both sales growth and profitability in our Sun server and storage businesses."
"Every quarter we grab huge chunks of market share from SAP," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "SAP's most recent quarter was the best quarter of their year, only down 15%, while Oracle's application sales were up 21%. But SAP is well ahead of us in the number of CEOs for this year, announcing their third and fourth, while we only had one."
In addition, Oracle's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.05 per share of outstanding common stock to be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 14, 2010, with a payment date of May 5, 2010. Future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of Oracle's Board of Directors.
Q3 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Oracle will hold a conference call and web broadcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific. You may listen to the call by dialing (800) 214-0694 or (719) 955-1425, Passcode: 567035. To access the live web broadcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at .
http://www.oracle.com/investor
About Oracle
Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL) is the world's most complete, open, and integrated business software and hardware systems company. For more information about Oracle, please visit our website at or call Investor Relations at (650) 506-4073.
http://www.oracle.com
Trademarks
Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's or its Board of Directors' future plans, expectations, beliefs, intentions and prospects are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions, including the recent global economic and financial crisis, could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, through reductions in customer IT budgets and expenditures and through the general tightening of access to credit. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) Our entrance into the hardware systems business may not be successful, and we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts with respect to this new business. (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions, including our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results, including risks relating to foreign currency gains and losses and risks relating to compliance with international and U.S. laws that apply to our international operations. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions and could require us to reduce prices or cause us to lose customers. (7) We cannot assure market acceptance of new products or services or new versions of existing or acquired products or services. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this press release is current as of March 25, 2010. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the tables, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:
 
 
 
 
 
 


