FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20100128124518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
 
On January 26, 2010, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of April 19, 2009 (the "Merger Agreement") by and among Oracle Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Oracle"), Sun Microsystems, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Sun"), and Soda Acquisition Corporation, a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle ("Merger Subsidiary"), Merger Subsidiary was merged with and into Sun, with Sun surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle (the "Merger"). Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement, each share of Sun common stock (other than shares held in Sun's treasury or owned directly or indirectly by Parent or Merger Subsidiary) issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger was cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive $9.50 in cash, without interest. The merger consideration will be funded through our internally available cash, cash from operations and cash from previous borrowings.
Section 8  Other Events
 
On January 27, 2010, Oracle issued a press release relating to the completion of the acquisition of Sun. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
The financial statements required by Item 9.01(a) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date this report on Form 8-K must be filed.
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
The pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K will be filed by amendment within 71 calendar days after the date this report on Form 8-K must be filed.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) announced today that it had completed its acquisition of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Combination of the local entities worldwide will proceed in accordance with local laws.
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., January 27, 2010
Oracle will host an all-day live event, which also will be webcast for customers, partners, press and analysts today at 9:00 AM Pacific time, at its headquarters in Redwood Shores, California. Details are available at .
www.oracle.com/sun
About Oracle
Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL) is the world's largest enterprise software company. For more information about Oracle, please visit our Web site at .
http://www.oracle.com
Trademark
Oracle is a registered trademark of Oracle Corporation and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Contact:
Karen Tillman
Oracle Corporate Communications
+1.650.607.0326
karen.tillman@oracle.com


