FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20110623160957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Section 2Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On June 23, 2011, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal year ended May 31, 2011. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 8Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events
Oracle is hereby furnishing the following information:
Oracle announced that its Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.06 per share of outstanding common stock payable on August 3, 2011, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 13, 2011.
Oracle's press release dated June 23, 2011, announcing this cash dividend is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
 
 Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2011 Q4 GAAP total revenues were up 13% to $10.8 billion, while non-GAAP total revenues were up 12% to $10.8 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP new software license revenues were up 19% to $3.7 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 15% to $4.0 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP hardware systems products revenues were down 6% to $1.2 billion. GAAP operating income was up 32% to $4.4 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 40%. Non-GAAP operating income was up 19% to $5.2 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 48%. GAAP net income was up 36% to $3.2 billion, while non-GAAP net income was up 27% to $3.9 billion. GAAP earnings per share were $0.62, up 34% compared to last year while non-GAAP earnings per share were up 25% to $0.75. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $11.2 billion.
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., June 23, 2011
For fiscal year 2011, GAAP total revenues were up 33% to $35.6 billion, while non-GAAP total revenues were up 33% to $35.9 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP new software license revenues were up 23% to $9.2 billion. GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 13% to $14.8 billion, while non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 13% to $14.9 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP hardware systems products revenues were $4.4 billion. GAAP operating income was up 33% to $12.0 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 34%. Non-GAAP operating income was up 27% to $15.9 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 44%. GAAP net income was up 39% to $8.5 billion, while non-GAAP net income was up 34% to $11.4 billion. GAAP earnings per share were $1.67, up 38% compared to last year while non-GAAP earnings per share were up 33% to $2.22.
"In Q4, we achieved a 19% new software license growth rate with almost no help from acquisitions," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "This strong organic growth combined with continuously improving operational efficiencies enabled us to deliver a 48% operating margin in the quarter. As our results reflect, we clearly exceeded even our own high expectations for Sun's business."
"In addition to record setting software sales, our Exadata and Exalogic systems also made a strong contribution to our growth in Q4," said Oracle President, Mark Hurd. "Today there are more than 1,000 Exadata machines installed worldwide. Our goal is to triple that number in FY12."
"In FY11 Oracle's database business experienced its fastest growth in a decade," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "Over the past few years we added features to the Oracle database for both cloud computing and in-memory databases that led to increased database sales this past year. Lately we've been focused on the big business opportunity presented by Big Data."
In addition, Oracle also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share of outstanding common stock. This dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on July 13, 2011, with a payment date of August 3, 2011.
Q4 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Oracle will hold a conference call and webcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific. You may listen to the call by dialing (913) 312-0945 or (877) 612-6725, Passcode: 7002523. To access the live webcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at .
http://www.oracle.com/investor
About Oracle
Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL) is the world's most complete, open, and integrated business software and hardware systems company. For more information about Oracle, please visit or contact Investor Relations at investor_us@oracle.com or (650) 506-4073.
http://www.oracle.com
Trademarks
Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans, expectations, beliefs, intentions and prospects, are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions, including the recent recession and global economic crisis and the current situation in Japan caused by the recent earthquake and resulting tsunami, can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) Our hardware systems business may not be successful, and we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts with respect to this business. (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results, including risks relating to foreign currency gains and losses, risks relating to compliance with international and U.S. laws that apply to our international operations and risks to the sales of our products and services and supply chain operations caused by the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions and could require us to reduce prices or cause us to lose customers. (7) If we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or hardware systems products or purchase or renew support contracts. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this press release is current as of June 23, 2011. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the tables, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:
 
 
 
 
 
 


