FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20110324160858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Table of Contents
Section 2Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On March 24, 2011, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal third quarter ended February 28, 2011. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 8Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events
Oracle is hereby furnishing the following information:
Oracle announced that its Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.06 per share of outstanding common stock, an increase of $0.01 per share over the prior dividend. The dividend is payable on May 4, 2011, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 13, 2011.
Oracle's press release dated March 24, 2011, announcing this cash dividend is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section  9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
 
 Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced fiscal 2011 Q3 GAAP total revenues were up 37% to $8.8 billion, while non-GAAP total revenues were up 36% to $8.8 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP new software license revenues were up 29% to $2.2 billion. GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 13% to $3.7 billion, while non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 13% to $3.8 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP hardware systems products revenues were $1.0 billion. GAAP operating income was up 62% to $3.0 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 34%. Non-GAAP operating income was up 35% to $3.9 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 44%. GAAP net income was up 78% to $2.1 billion, while non-GAAP net income was up 42% to $2.8 billion. GAAP earnings per share were $0.41, up 75% compared to last year while non-GAAP earnings per share were up 40% to $0.54. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $9.9 billion.
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., March 24, 2011
"Strong revenue growth coupled with disciplined business management enabled an increase in non-GAAP operating margin to 44% and earnings per share to $0.54," said Oracle President, Safra Catz. "Our hardware product gross margins increased to 55% in the quarter so we are now completely confident that we will exceed the $1.5 billion profit goal we set for the overall Sun business for the current fiscal year."
"Q3 performance was broad based with all geographies reporting revenue growth of 30% or higher," said Oracle President, Mark Hurd. "The sequential revenue growth for Exadata and Exalogic was up over 50%. And we expect to see an even higher growth rate for these two game changing technologies in Q4."
"In Q3 we signed several large hardware and software deals with some of the biggest names in cloud computing," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "For example, Salesforce.com's new multi-year contract enables them to continue building virtually all of their cloud services on top of the Oracle database and Oracle middleware. Oracle is the technology that powers the cloud."
In addition, Oracle also announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share of outstanding common stock, reflecting a 20% increase over the previous quarter's dividend of $0.05. This increased dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on April 13, 2011, with a payment date of May 4, 2011.
Q3 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Oracle will hold a conference call and webcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific. You may listen to the call by dialing (877) 612-6725 or (912) 312-0950, Passcode: 7536150. To access the live webcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at .
http://www.oracle.com/investor
About Oracle
Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL) is the world's most complete, open, and integrated business software and hardware systems company. For more information about Oracle, please visit or contact Investor Relations at investor_us@oracle.com or (650) 506-4073.
http://www.oracle.com
Trademarks
Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's or its Board of Directors' future plans, expectations, beliefs, intentions and prospects, including statements regarding exceeding our profit goals for the Sun business and the higher growth rates for Exadata and Exalogic in Q4, are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions, including the recent recession and global economic
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
crisis and the current situation in Japan caused by the recent earthquake and resulting tsunami, can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) Our entrance into the hardware systems business may not be successful, and we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts with respect to this new business. (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions, including our acquisition of Sun Microsystems, may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results, including risks relating to foreign currency gains and losses, risks relating to compliance with international and U.S. laws that apply to our international operations and risks to the sales of our products and services and supply chain operations caused by the recent earthquake and tsunami in Japan. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions and could require us to reduce prices or cause us to lose customers. (7) If we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or hardware systems products or purchase or renew support contracts. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this press release is current as of March 24, 2011. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the tables, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:
 
 
 
 
 
 


