FILE:ORCL/ORCL-8K-20120920161234.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 8.01 Other Events
Item  9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT LIST
EXHIBIT 99.1
Table of Contents
Section 2Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On September 20, 2012, Oracle Corporation issued a press release announcing financial results for its fiscal first quarter ended August 31, 2012. A copy of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
Section 8Other Events
Item 8.01 Other Events
Oracle is hereby furnishing the following information:
Oracle announced that its Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.06 per share of outstanding common stock payable on November 2, 2012, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 12, 2012.
Oracle's press release dated September 20, 2012, announcing this cash dividend is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated by reference herein.
Section 9Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Table of Contents
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
 
Oracle Corporation (NASDAQ: ORCL) today announced that both fiscal 2013 Q1 GAAP and non-GAAP total revenues were down 2% to $8.2 billion. GAAP new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues were up 5% to $1.6 billion, while non-GAAP new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues were up 6% to $1.6 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP software license updates and product support revenues were up 3% to $4.1 billion. Both GAAP and non-GAAP hardware systems products revenues were down 24% to $779 million. GAAP operating income was up 7% to $2.9 billion, and GAAP operating margin was 35%. Non-GAAP operating income was up 1% to $3.6 billion, and non-GAAP operating margin was 44%. GAAP net income was up 11% to $2.0 billion, while non-GAAP net income was up 6% to $2.6 billion. GAAP earnings per share were $0.41, up 15% compared to last year while non-GAAP earnings per share were up 11% to $0.53. GAAP operating cash flow on a trailing twelve-month basis was $14.0 billion, up 9% compared to last year.
REDWOOD SHORES, Calif., September 20, 2012
Without the impact of the US dollar strengthening compared to foreign currencies, Oracle's reported Q1 GAAP earnings per share would have been $0.03 higher at $0.44, up 24%, and Q1 non-GAAP earnings per share would have been $0.03 higher at $0.56, up 17%. Both GAAP and non-GAAP total revenues also would have been up 3%, GAAP new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues would have been up 10%, non-GAAP new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions revenues would have been up 11% and both GAAP and non-GAAP hardware systems products revenues would have been down 21%.
"On a non-GAAP basis, new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions sales grew 11% in constant currency and operating margin increased to 44% in Q1," said Oracle President and CFO, Safra Catz. "Q1 operating cash flow increased to a record high of $5.7 billion. We're off to a good start in the new year."
"Exadata, Exalogic, Exalytics and our other engineered systems grew more than 100% in the quarter," said Oracle President, Mark Hurd. "For the full year, we expect to double engineered systems sales to well over $1 billion. Oracle's new cloud business is also approaching a $1 billion annual run rate. These two businesses will drive Oracle's growth for years to come."
"A little more than a week from now we will announce lots of enhancements to the Oracle Cloud," said Oracle CEO, Larry Ellison. "There are more CRM, ERP and HCM applications as a service, and more Oracle database, Java and social network platform services. Our new infrastructure as a service is available in the Oracle Cloud and as a private cloud in our customers' data center, with the unique ability to move applications and services back and forth between the two. Join us at Oracle OpenWorld for all the details."
The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.06 per share of outstanding common stock. This dividend will be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on October 12, 2012, with a payment date of November 2, 2012.
Q1 Fiscal 2013 Earnings Conference Call and Webcast
Oracle will hold a conference call and webcast today to discuss these results at 2:00 p.m. Pacific. You may listen to the call by dialing (913) 312-6699, Passcode: 861602. To access the live webcast of this event, please visit the Oracle Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. In addition, Oracle's Q1 results and Fiscal 2013 financial tables are available on the Oracle Investor Relations website.
A replay of the conference call will also be available by dialing (719) 457-0820 or (888) 203-1112, Passcode: 6071749.
About Oracle
Oracle engineers hardware and software to work together in the cloud and in your data center. For more information about Oracle (NASDAQ: ORCL), visit www.oracle.com or contact Investor Relations at investor_us@oracle.com or (650) 506-4073.
Trademarks
Oracle and Java are registered trademarks of Oracle and/or its affiliates. Other names may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Statements in this press release relating to Oracle's future plans, expectations, beliefs, intentions and prospects, including statements regarding engineered systems sales doubling for the full year, Oracle's cloud business annual run rate, the cloud business and engineered systems business driving Oracle's growth in years to come, and announcements to be made at Oracle Open World, are "forward-looking statements" and are subject to material risks and uncertainties. Many factors could affect our current expectations and our actual results, and could cause actual results to differ materially. We presently consider the following to be among the important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from expectations: (1) Economic, political and market conditions, including the current European debt crisis, can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. (2) We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to such factors as delays or size reductions in transactions, fewer large transactions in a particular quarter, unanticipated fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delays in delivery of new products or releases or a decline in our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. (3) Our hardware systems business may not be successful, and we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts with respect to this business. (4) We have an active acquisition program and our acquisitions may not be successful, may involve unanticipated costs or other integration issues or may disrupt our existing operations. (5) Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results, including risks relating to foreign currency gains and losses and risks relating to compliance with international and U.S. laws that apply to our international operations. (6) Intense competitive forces demand rapid technological advances and frequent new product introductions and could require us to reduce prices or cause us to lose customers. (7) If we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses, cloud software subscriptions, or hardware systems products, or purchase or renew support contracts. A detailed discussion of these factors and other risks that affect our business is contained in our SEC filings, including our most recent reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q, particularly under the heading "Risk Factors." Copies of these filings are available online from the SEC or by contacting Oracle Corporation's Investor Relations Department at (650) 506-4073 or by clicking on SEC Filings on Oracle's Investor Relations website at http://www.oracle.com/investor. All information set forth in this press release is current as of September 20, 2012. Oracle undertakes no duty to update any statement in light of new information or future events.
"Safe Harbor" Statement:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A
To supplement our financial results presented on a GAAP basis, we use the non-GAAP measures indicated in the tables, which exclude certain business combination accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions, as well as other significant expenses including stock-based compensation, that we believe are helpful in understanding our past financial performance and our future results. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. Our non-GAAP financial measures reflect adjustments based on the following items, as well as the related income tax effects:
 
 
 
 
 


