Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to allow the reader of the financial statements the ability to gain transparency into the operations of the Company. We have restated historical divisional revenue information to conform to the current year presentation. 2 Table of Contents Financial information about our revenues from foreign countries and assets located in those countries is also included in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, which begin on page 58. Description of Our Business Company Overview We are a global biotechnology tools company dedicated to helping our customers make scientific discoveries and applying those discoveries to ultimately improve the quality of life. Our systems, reagents, and services enable researchers to accelerate scientific exploration, driving to discoveries and developments that better the quality of life. Life Technologies customers do their work across the biological spectrum, advancing genomic medicine, regenerative science, molecular diagnostics, agricultural and environmental research, and 21st century forensics. The Company employs approximately 9,000 people, has a presence in more than 160 countries, and possesses a rapidly growing intellectual property estate of over 3,900 patents and exclusive licenses. Our systems and reagents enable, simplify and accelerate a broad spectrum of biological research of genes, proteins and cells within academic and life science research and commercial applications. Our scientific expertise assists in making biodiscovery research techniques more effective and efficient for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, clinical, government and academic scientific professionals with backgrounds in a wide range of scientific disciplines. The Company offers many different products and services, and is continually developing and or acquiring others. Some of our specific product categories include the following: High throughput gene cloning and expression technology, which allows customers to clone and expression test genes on an industrial scale. Pre cast electrophoresis products, which improve the speed, reliability and convenience of separating nucleic acids and proteins. Antibodies, which allow researchers to capture and label proteins, visualize their location through use of dyes and discern their role in disease. Magnetic beads, which are used in a variety of settings, such as attachment of molecular labels, nucleic acid purification, and organ and bone marrow tissue type testing. Molecular Probes fluorescence based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. Transfection reagents, which are widely used to transfer genetic elements into living cells enabling the study of protein function and gene regulation. PCR and Real Time PCR systems, reagents and assays, which enable researchers to amplify and detect targeted nucleic acids (DNA and RNA molecules) for a host of applications in molecular biology. Cell culture media and reagents used to preserve and grow mammalian cells, which are used in large scale cGMP bio production facilities to produce large molecule biologic therapies. RNA Interference reagents, which enable scientists to selectively turn off genes in biology systems to gain insight into biological pathways. Capillary electrophoresis and SOLiDtm DNA sequencing systems and reagents, which are used to discover sources of genetic and epigenetic variation, to catalog the DNA structure of organisms, to verify the composition of genetic research material, and to apply these genetic analysis discoveries in markets such as forensic human identification and clinical diagnostics. Scientific Background The genome is the entirety of a living organisms genetic information coded in the form of DNA. Within the genome are individual segments of DNA that form genes, which encode the instructions used by cells to create proteins. These instructions are relayed from the gene to the cells protein assembly machinery through the intermediary of a transcript composed of RNA. The total set of RNA transcripts expressed by the genome in a cell or organism is known as the transcriptome. It is the proteins, however, that ultimately carry out most of the essential biological activities required for life. The total complement of proteins expressed by the genome in a cell or 3 Table of Contents organism is known as the proteome. Proteins have many different functional properties, and are the key biological molecules involved in processes such as growth, development, reproduction, aging, and disease. Researchers seeking to learn the causes of disease to develop treatments have historically used molecular biology techniques focused on the study of single or small numbers of genes and the proteins they code for, as opposed to the study of the genome or proteome as a whole. The study of the genome is known as genomics, while the study of the proteome is known as proteomics. Technological advances over the past two decades, including many developed and marketed by Life Technologies have rapidly accelerated scientists ability to perform genomics and proteomics research. These advances include the development of automated instruments that can perform high throughput analysis of samples and specialized reagents and consumables that enable researchers to perform analysis accurately and efficiently. Genomics research has evolved from the sequencing of the first viral genome of just over 5,000 bases three decades ago to the complete sequencing of the more than 3 billion bases of the human genome in 2001. The recent advances in genomic and proteomic studies have also led to the rapid development of bioinformatics, which integrates biology and computing to analyze the massive amounts of data generated by such studies. Following the sequencing of the complete human genome, functional genomics and the study of the transcriptome and proteome have come to prominence. Rather than replacing the study of single genes, these disciplines have complemented and enhanced such studies. For example, in the field of drug development, studies in genomics and proteomics combined with an understanding of drug action and efficacy can help to identify patient groups for which the drug may be particularly beneficial. Pharmaceutical based research also includes the development of safe and effective methods of bioproduction for protein based therapeutic agents. In the field of disease treatment, research is often focused on the discovery of biomarkers. These are transcripts or proteins that are used as markers for the diagnosis of certain disease states and their prognosis for treatment. High throughput production and screening of peptides (short chains of amino acids, the building blocks of proteins) can also assist in the design of vaccines against diseases for which current vaccines are ineffective or unavailable. In medicine, basic research is focused on cell differentiation, cell proliferation, and cell death. These have wide applications in the study of regenerative medicine, which focuses on repairing organs damaged by trauma or disease. The study of aging is another important field in this category, and focuses on alleviating debilitating conditions associated with the aging process. Customer Base The Company divides its target customer base into three major categories: Life science researchers. The life sciences research market consists of laboratories generally associated with universities, medical research centers, government institutions such as the United States National Institutes of Health, or the NIH, and other research institutions as well as biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, energy, agricultural, and chemical companies. Researchers at these institutions are using our products and services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities, such as: searching for drugs or other techniques to combat a wide variety of diseases, such as cancer and viral and bacterial disease; researching diagnostics for disease identification or for improving the efficacy of drugs to targeted patient groups; and assisting in vaccine design, bioproduction, and agriculture. Our products and services provide the research tools needed for genomics studies, proteomics studies, gene splicing, cellular analysis, and other key research applications that are required by these life science researchers. Commercial producers of biopharmaceutical and other high valued proteins. The Company serves industries that apply genetic engineering to the research and commercial production of useful but otherwise rare or difficult to obtain substances, such as proteins, interferons, interleukins, t PA and monoclonal antibodies. Once a discovery has been proven, the manufacturers of these materials require larger quantities of the same sera and other cell growth media that the Company provides in smaller quantities to researchers. Industries involved in the commercial production of genetically engineered products include the biotechnology pharmaceutical, food processing and agricultural industries. 4 Table of Contents Users who apply our technologies to enable or improve particular activities. The Company provides tools that apply our technology to enable or improve activities in particular markets, which we refer to as applied markets. The current focus of our products for these markets is in the areas of: forensic analysis, which is used to identify individuals based on their DNA; quality and safety testing, such as testing required to measure food, beverage, or environmental quality and pharmaceutical manufacturing quality and safety; production animal health testing, which enables the detection of pathogens in livestock; and biosecurity, which refers to products needed in response to the threat of biological terrorism and other malicious, accidental, and natural biological dangers. The Applied Biosystems branded forensic testing and human identification products and services are innovative and market leading tools that have been widely accepted by investigators and laboratories in connection with criminal investigations, the exoneration of individuals wrongly accused or convicted of crimes, identifying victims of disasters, and paternity testing. While the Company does not believe that any single customer or small group of customers is material to our business as a whole or to our product segments, approximately 20% of our customers in our target markets receive funding for their research, either directly or indirectly from grants from the federal government of the United States or state and local governments. Our Products As of the end of 2009, the Company divided products and services into the following four divisions: Molecular Biology Systems, (also referred to as MBS); Cell Systems, (also referred to as CS); Genetic Systems, (also referred to as GS) and Mass Spectrometry. The Mass Spectrometry division was comprised of a 50% interest in a joint venture that the Company acquired as a part of the AB acquisition. The Company sold the Mass Spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation on January 29, 2010. The Company accounted for this investment using the equity method. Our share of earnings or losses, including revenue, is included in other income. The MBS division includes the molecular biology based technologies including basic and real time PCR, RNAi, DNA synthesis, sample prep, transfection, cloning and protein expression profiling and protein analysis. The CS division includes all product lines used in the study of cell function, including cell culture media and sera, stem cells and related tools, cellular imaging products, antibodies, drug discovery services, and cell therapy related products. The GS division includes sequencing systems and reagents, including capillary electrophoresis and the SOLiD system, as well as reagent kits developed specifically for applied markets, such as forensics, food and water safety and pharmaceutical quality monitoring. Upon completion of the acquisition of AB in 2008, the Company commenced the process of integrating the businesses and administration of the combined companies. A key part of this process was a reorganization of the business, research and development, and sales and marketing organizations within Life Technologies such that they are focused on optimizing the unique technologies and capabilities of the combined companies to drive new developments and business performance. The Company plans to continue to introduce new research products and services, as we believe continued new product development and rapid product introduction is a critical competitive factor in all of the markets that the Company serves. The Company expects to continue to increase expenditures in sales and marketing, manufacturing and research and development to support increased levels of sales and to augment our long term competitive position. The Company recorded total backlog of $221.3 million at December 31, 2009 for products with higher demand as well as longer terms in contractual sales. The Company anticipates that most of the orders included in backlog at December 31, 2009 will be delivered during the year ended December 31, 2010. Recorded backlog may not result in sales because of cancellation or other factors. Service and Support The Company generally provides limited warranties on all equipment at the time of sale, for periods of time ranging up to two years from the date of sale depending on the product subject to warranty. However, warranties 5 Table of Contents included with any sale can vary, and may be excluded altogether, depending on the particular circumstances of the sale. The sale of some equipment includes installation, basic user training, and or application support. The Company also offers service contracts to our customers that are generally one to five years in duration after the original warranty period. The Company provides both repair services and routine maintenance services under these arrangements, and also offers repair and maintenance services on a time and material basis to customers that do not have service contracts. Service in the United States and major markets outside of the United States is provided by our service staff. In some foreign countries, service may be provided through third party arrangements. In addition, we offer custom services such as cell line development, custom media modification, development of primers and custom assays. These services are typically offered with limited warranties. Research and Development The Company has a strong history of developing pioneering technology through the combination of science and engineering. The Company continues to build on that legacy by generating innovative products across the scientific continuum of discovery, development, and validation. In 2009, the Company launched more than 1,000 new products in fields ranging from genomic analysis to cell biology to human identification and diagnostics. The Company invested $337.1 million, $142.5 million and $115.8 million in research and development in the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately 1,300 employees engaged in research and development activities in the United States, Japan, Israel, Singapore, India, and Norway. The Company also continues to maintain a comprehensive network of collaborators and scientific advisors across the globe. Our research and development activities are focused in segments where we are the market leader and in emerging growth areas in which we can leverage our expertise in instrumentation, reagent and consumable solutions. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing strategy is to maintain the brand equity we have with both the Invitrogen and Applied Biosystems brand names. Our products continue to be marketed and sold under those two brand platforms, with the Applied Biosystems brand representing end to end systems, instruments and workflow solutions, and the Invitrogen brand representing platform independent reagents. The channels the Company uses to take these brands to market include a broad commercial organization of approximately 3,000 employees in more than 160 countries, with a highly educated and well trained sales force, more than 1,000 supply centers around the world, based in our customers laboratories to provide easy access to our products, and platform brand websites that are the conduit for on line transactions. Our sales strategy has been to employ scientists to work as our sales representatives. The Company has two types of direct sales personnel: generalists and technical sales specialists. Generalists are typically responsible for total customer account management. They work closely with the technical specialists who have an extensive background in biology or other scientific fields of study and who focus on specific product offerings. A thorough knowledge of biological techniques and an understanding of the research process allow our sales representatives to become advisors, acting in a consultative role with our customers. Our use of technical sales representatives also enables us to identify market needs and new technologies that we can license and develop into new products. Our marketing departments located in the North American, European and Asia Pacific regions use a variety of media communication vehicles and methods to keep our customers informed of new products and services, as well as enhancements to existing products and services. Those vehicles include internally produced print catalogs, newsletters, magazines, brochures, direct mailers, product inserts, tradeshow posters and sourcebooks as well as web based newsletters, email, seminars and forums. Our main website includes pages detailing our products and services, along with purchasing, technical and directional information. The technical information includes interactive online tools enabling customers to link to public research databases, download scientific analyses and search for project specific data. The Company also advertises in numerous print and web based publications related to science and industry, and we exhibit and present information at scientific events worldwide. 6 Table of Contents Technology Licensing Some of our existing products are manufactured or sold under the terms of license agreements that require us to pay royalties to the licensor based on the sales of products containing the licensed materials or technology. These licenses also typically impose obligations on us to market the licensed technology. Although the Company emphasizes our own research and development, we believe our ability to in license new technology from third parties is and will continue to be critical to our ability to offer competitive new products. Our ability to obtain these in licenses depends in part on our ability to convince inventors that the Company will be successful in bringing new products incorporating their technology to market. Several significant licenses or exclusivity rights expire at various times during the next 15 years. There are certain risks associated with relying on third party licensed technologies, including our ability to identify attractive technologies, license them on acceptable terms, meet our obligations under the licenses, renew those licenses should they expire before the Company retires the related product and the risk that the third party may lose patent protection. These risks are more fully described under the heading Risks Related to the Development and Manufacturing of our Products and Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property below. Patents and Proprietary Technologies Our products are based on complex, rapidly developing technologies. Some of these technologies are covered by patents the Company owns, and others are owned by third parties and are used by us under license. The Company has pursued a policy of seeking patent protection in the United States and other countries for developments, improvements, and inventions originating within our organization that are incorporated into our products or that fall within our fields of interest. The Company considers the protection of our proprietary technologies and products in our product divisions to be important to the success of our business and rely on a combination of patents and exclusive licenses to protect these technologies and products. The Company currently owns over 3,100 patents. Of this amount we control over 1,300 patents in the United States, and over 1,800 in other countries. The Company also has exclusive rights to another 810 patents. The Company also has numerous pending patent applications both domestically and internationally. Our success depends, to a significant degree, upon our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies and it is important to our success that we protect the intellectual property associated with these products and technologies. The Company intends to continue to file patent applications as we develop new products and technologies. Patents provide some degree of, but not complete, protection for our intellectual property. The Company also relies in part on trade secret, copyright and trademark protection of our intellectual property. The Company protects our trade secrets by, among other things, entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, employees and consultants. It is our general policy to require employees and consultants to sign agreements to assign to us their interests in intellectual property arising from their work for us. There are risks related to our reliance on patents, trade secret, copyright and trademark protection laws, which are described in more detail under the heading Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property below. The Company is currently, and could in the future, be subject to lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations, and other legal actions with private parties and governmental entities, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights. From time to time, the Company has asserted that various competitors and others are infringing our patents, and similarly, from time to time, others have asserted that we were or are infringing patents owned by them. These claims are sometimes settled by mutual agreement on a satisfactory basis and result in the granting of licenses by or to us or the cessation of the alleged infringing activities. However, the Company cannot make any assurances as to the outcome of any pending or future claims. More information about the risk factors associated with our reliance on intellectual property is set forth under the heading Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property below. Competition The markets for our products are competitive and are characterized by the application of advanced technologies. New technologies in life sciences could make our products and services obsolete unless the Company continues to develop new and improved products and services and pursue new market opportunities. Given the 7 Table of Contents breadth of our product and service offerings, our competition comes from a wide array of competitors with a high degree of technical proficiency, ranging from specialized companies that have strengths in narrow segments of the life science markets to larger manufacturers and distributors offering a broad array of biotechnology products and services and have significant financial, operational, research and development, and sales and marketing resources. These and other companies may have developed or could in the future develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. Additionally, there are numerous scientists making materials themselves instead of using kits. The Company believes that a companys competitive position in our markets is determined by product function, product quality, speed of delivery, technical support, price, breadth of product line, distribution capabilities, and timely product development. Our customers are diverse and may place varying degrees of importance on the competitive attributes listed above. While it is difficult to rank these attributes for all our customers in the aggregate, the Company believes we are well positioned to compete in each category. Suppliers Our manufacturing operations require a wide variety of raw materials, electronic and mechanical components, chemical and biochemical materials, and other supplies. The Company buys materials for our products from many suppliers and the Company has OEM arrangements with many third parties for the manufacturing of various products sold under our platform brand. While there are some raw materials that the Company obtains from a single supplier, we are not dependent on any one supplier or group of suppliers for our business as a whole. Raw materials are generally available from a number of suppliers. Even so, due to factors out of our control, some supplies may occasionally be difficult to obtain. Any interruption in the availability of our manufacturing supplies could force us to suspend manufacturing of the affected product and therefore harm our operations. Government Regulation Certain of our products and services, including some products that are intended for in vitro diagnostics, as well as the manufacturing process of these products, are subject to regulation under various portions of the United States Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities are subject to periodic inspection by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, other product oriented federal agencies and various state and local authorities in the United States. The Company believes such facilities are in compliance in all material aspects with the requirements of the FDAs Quality System Regulation (formerly known as Good Manufacturing Practices), other federal, state and local regulations and other quality standards such as ISO 9001 or ISO 13485. Portions of our business subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act include certain products with respect to their testing, safety, efficacy, marketing, labeling and other matters. Materials used in development and testing activities at several of our facilities are also subject to the Controlled Substances Act, administered by the Drug Enforcement Agency, or DEA. Required procedures for control, use and inventory of these materials are in place at these facilities. The Company also voluntarily employs Centers for Disease Control/National Institutes of Health, Guidelines for Research Involving Recombinant DNA Molecules, Biosafety in Microbiological and Biomedical Laboratories and the hazard classification system recommendations for handling bacterial and viral agents, with capabilities through biosafety level three. The Company is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations regulating the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment, in those jurisdictions where we operate or maintain facilities. We do not believe that any liability arising under, or compliance with, these laws and regulations will have a material effect on our business and no material capital expenditures are expected for environmental control. In addition to the foregoing, we are subject to other federal, state and local laws and regulations applicable to our business, including the Occupational Safety and Health Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; national restrictions on technology transfer, import, export and customs regulations; statutes and regulations relating to government contracting; and similar laws and regulations in foreign countries. In particular, the Company is subject to various foreign regulations sometimes restricting the importation or the exportation of animal derived products such as fetal bovine serum. 8 Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 9,000 employees, approximately 3,960 of whom were employed outside the United States. These numbers include part time employees. In addition, the Company employs a number of temporary and contract employees not reflected in these numbers. Our success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain employees. The Company faces competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. None of our domestic employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. The Company generally considers relations with our employees to be good. Executive Officers of the Registrant The Board of Directors appoints executive officers of Life Technologies, and the Chief Executive Officer has authority to hire and terminate such officers. Each executive officer holds office until the earlier of his or her death, resignation, removal from office or the appointment of his or her successor. No family relationships exist among any of Life Technologies executive officers, directors or persons nominated to serve in those positions. We have listed the ages, positions held and the periods during which our current executive officers have served in those positions below: Gregory T. Lucier (age 45) serves as Chief Executive Officer of Life Technologies and as Chairman of the Companys Board of Directors. Previously, Mr. Lucier served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Invitrogen Corporation, which merged with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. The Company is one of the largest providers of systems, biological reagents, and services to life scientists around the world. The Company aims to improve the human condition by enabling basic research, accelerating drug discovery and development, and advancing scientific exploration in areas such as regenerative science, molecular diagnostics, agricultural and environmental research, and 21st century forensics. Mr. Lucier has leveraged his background in healthcare management to prepare the company to participate in and shape the new era of personalized medicine. Mr. Lucier serves as a Director of Biotechnology Industry Organization, as well as the Chairman of the Board of Trustees for the Sanford/Burnham Medical Research Institute, and a Director for CareFusion Corporation, a publicly traded medical technology company. Mr. Lucier is actively involved at San Diego State University as a distinguished lecturer. Mr. Lucier received his B.S. in Engineering from Pennsylvania State University and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. Joseph C. Beery (age 47) serves as Chief Information Officer of Life Technologies. From September 2008 to November 2008, Mr. Beery served as Chief Information Officer of Invitrogen Corporation, which merged with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Prior to joining Invitrogen Corporation, Mr. Beery held the executive position of Chief Information Officer at US Airways and America West Airlines. Mr. Beery also spent ten (10) years at Motorola Semiconductor, holding various positions in the computer integrated manufacturing group. Mr. Beery also served as a manufacturing and software engineer at NV Philips in Albuquerque, N.M. Mr. Beery holds a B.S. in Business Administration and Business Computer Systems from the University of New Mexico. Nicolas M. Barthelemy (age 44) serves as President of Cell Systems of Life Technologies. From January 2006 to November 2008, Mr. Barthelemy served as Senior Vice President of Cell Systems of Invitrogen Corporation, which merged with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Mr. Barthelemy served as Senior Vice President of Global Operations of Invitrogen Corporation from March 2004 to January 2006. Prior to joining Invitrogen Corporation, Mr. Barthelemy held several executive positions at Biogen Idec, including Vice President of Manufacturing. Mr. Barthelemy is a recognized operations leader in large scale mammalian cell culture and purification. Mr. Barthelemy received his M.S. in Chemical Engineering from the University of California, Berkeley and the equivalent of an M.S. in Chemistry from cole Suprieure de Physiques et Chimie Industrielles (Paris, France) and the equivalent of a B.S. in Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry from Ecole Sainte Genevive (Versailles, France). Bernd Brust (age 42) serves as President of Commercial Operations of Life Technologies. From November 2006 to November 2008, Mr. Brust served as Senior Vice President of Global Sales of Invitrogen Corporation, which 9 Table of Contents merged with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Mr. Brust joined Invitrogen Corporation in 2004 and served as General Manager and Vice President of European Operations until November 2006. He has more than fifteen (15) years of sales, commercial operations, marketing and general management experience. Prior to joining Invitrogen Corporation, he served in various senior leadership roles at GE Medical Systems Information Technologies, including as General Manager of Sales Marketing. Mr. Brust holds a degree in Engineering from MTS in Amsterdam. Mr. Brust is a board member of the San Diego Regional Chamber of Commerce and BIOCOM, the largest regional life science association in the world, representing more than 550 member companies in Southern California. John A. Cottingham (age 55) serves as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary of Life Technologies. From May 2004 to November 2008, Mr. Cottingham served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Invitrogen Corporation, which merged with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Mr. Cottingham served as Vice President, General Counsel of Invitrogen Corporation from September 2000 to May 2004. Prior to the merger of the former Life Technologies, Inc., or LTI, with Invitrogen Corporation in September 2000, Mr. Cottingham was the General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of LTI from January 1996 to September 2000. From May 1988 to December 1995, Mr. Cottingham served as an international corporate attorney with the Washington, D.C. office of Fulbright and Jaworski L.L.P. Mr. Cottingham received his B.S. in Political Science from Furman University, his J.D. from the University of South Carolina, his L.L.M. in Securities Regulation from Georgetown University and his M.S.E.L. from the University of San Diego. Mr. Cottingham is a member of the board of the San Diego Chapter of the Association of Corporate Counsel. Peter M. Dansky (age 49) serves as President of Molecular Biology Systems of Life Technologies. From July 2007 to November 2008, Mr. Dansky served as Division President of the Molecular and Cell Biology Functional Analysis Division of Applied Biosystems, which merged with Invitrogen Corporation in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Mr. Dansky has more than twenty three (23) years of leadership experience in marketing, product development and sales from a variety of life science companies, including Affymetrix, PerSeptive BioSystems and Millipore. Prior to joining Applied Biosystems, Mr. Dansky was Vice President of Marketing for Arcturus Bioscience, where he led commercial strategy for the life science research and clinical diagnostics businesses. Mr. Dansky holds an M.B.A. from Boston College and a M.S. and B.S. in Chemical Engineering from Tufts University. Paul D. Grossman (age 49) serves as Senior Vice President of Strategy and Corporate Development of Life Technologies. From May 2007 to November 2008, Dr. Grossman served as Senior Vice President of Strategy and Corporate Development of Invitrogen Corporation, which merged with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Prior to joining Invitrogen Corporation, Dr. Grossman held a variety of leadership roles during his more than twenty (20) years at Applied Biosystems. At Applied Biosystems, Dr. Grossman worked as a research scientist, patent attorney and as Vice President of Intellectual Property and Chief Group Counsel. Most recently, Dr. Grossman served as Vice President of Strategy and Business Development. Dr. Grossman received B.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Chemical Engineering from the University of California at Berkeley, a M.S. in Chemical Engineering from the University of Virginia, and a J.D. from Santa Clara University School of Law. Dr. Grossman has authored numerous scientific publications and holds more than seventy (70) U.S. and foreign patents. David F. Hoffmeister (age 55) serves as Chief Financial Officer of Life Technologies. From October 2004 to November 2008, Mr. Hoffmeister served as Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President of Invitrogen Corporation, which merged with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Prior to joining Invitrogen Corporation, Mr. Hoffmeister held various positions over the course of twenty (20) years with McKinsey Company, most recently as a senior partner serving clients in the healthcare, private equity and specialty chemicals industries. Prior to joining McKinsey Company, Mr. Hoffmeister held financial positions at GTE and W.R.Grace. Mr. Hoffmeister is a member of the board of Celanese Corporation. Mr. Hoffmeister received his B.S. in Business from the University of Minnesota and an M.B.A. from the University of Chicago. Peter M. Leddy (age 46) serves as Senior Vice President of Global Human Resources and Internal Communications of Life Technologies. From July 2005 to November 2008, Dr. Leddy served as Senior Vice President of Global Human Resources of Invitrogen Corporation, which merged with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Prior to joining Invitrogen Corporation, Dr. Leddy held several senior management 10 Table of Contents positions with Dell Incorporated from 2000 to 2005 and was, most recently, Vice President of Human Resources for the Americas Operations. Prior to joining Dell Incorporated, Dr. Leddy served as the Executive Vice President of Human Resources at Promus Hotel Corporation (Doubletree, Embassy Suites). Dr. Leddy also served in a variety of executive and human resource positions at PepsiCo. Dr. Leddy received his B.A. in Psychology from Creighton University and his M.S. and Ph.D. in Industrial/Organizational Psychology from the Illinois Institute of Technology. Dr. Leddy is a member of the California State University Professional Science Masters Executive Board of Directors and is a former board member of the Biotechnology Institute. John L. Miller (age 51) serves as President of Genetic Systems of Life Technologies. From December 2005 to November 2008, Mr. Miller served as Senior Vice President of Biodiscovery of Invitrogen Corporation, which merged with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Mr. Miller has a strong background in general management, sales and marketing and extensive experience in life science, research and diagnostic markets. Prior to joining Invitrogen Corporation, Mr. Miller was Vice President, General Manager Americas for BD Biosciences in San Diego with responsibility for US, Canada and Latin America. Prior to that, Mr. Miller was Vice President, General Manager for BD Biosciences Research Cell Analysis and BD Pharmingen, a division of BD Biosciences. Additionally, Mr. Miller has held a variety of leadership positions in the sales and service organizations for BD Biosciences and for Leica Inc. Mr. Miller has a B.S. in Engineering from Michigan State University. Mr. Miller is a member of the board of UCSD CONNECT. Mark ODonnell (age 53) serves as Senior Vice President of Global Operations and Services of Life Technologies. From September 2007 to November 2008, Mr. ODonnell served as leader of the Global Services Division of Applied Biosystems, which merged with Invitrogen Corporation in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Mr. ODonnell has more than twenty five (25) years of operational experience in supply chain, manufacturing and service. Mr. ODonnell joined Applied Biosystems in 1981 with Perkin Elmer Corporation. In 2001, Mr. ODonnell became Vice President, Global Supply Chain of Applied Biosystems, managing the forecasting, planning, procurement, engineering, transportation, and warehousing of raw materials and products. In 2007, Mr. ODonnell was promoted to President of Global Service and Supply Chain of Applied Biosystems with added responsibilities for service, customer support and business systems groups. Mr. ODonnell holds a B.A. in Liberal Arts from the University of Connecticut at Storrs, and an M.B.A. from the University of New Haven, Connecticut. Kelli A. Richard (age 41) serves as Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer of Life Technologies. Ms. Richard served as Vice President of Finance and Chief Accounting Officer of Invitrogen Corporation prior to the merger with Applied Biosystems in November of 2008, which formed Life Technologies. Ms. Richard joined Invitrogen Corporation in August 2005 with more than fourteen (14) years of accounting and financial reporting experience, previously serving as Vice President of Accounting and Reporting. Prior to joining Invitrogen Corporation, Ms. Richard held the position of Principal Accounting Officer at Gateway, Inc. Ms. Richard is a certified public accountant with a Bachelor of Business Administration degree from the University of Iowa. Mark P. Stevenson (age 47) serves as President and Chief Operating Officer of Life Technologies. From December 2007 to November 2008, Mr. Stevenson served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Applied Biosystems, which merged with Invitrogen Corporation in November 2008 to form Life Technologies. Mr. Stevenson joined Applied Biosystems in Europe in 1998, and held roles of increasing responsibility in Europe and Japan. Mr. Stevenson moved to the U.S. in 2004 to establish the Applied Markets Division of Applied Biosystems and, in 2006, was named President of the Molecular and Cellular Biology Division of Applied Biosystems. Mr. Stevenson has more than twenty (20) years of sales, marketing, and international executive management experience and received his B.S. in Chemistry from the University of Reading, UK, and an M.B.A. from Henley Management School, UK. Mr. Stevenson serves on the Board of Trustees of the Keck Graduate Institute. ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, together with other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10 K or incorporated herein by reference in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, in some cases significantly. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business 11 Table of Contents operations. Certain statements in this Form 10 K (including certain of the following factors) constitute forward looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled Forward Looking Statements on page 4 of this Form 10 K for important limitations on these forward looking statements. Risks Related to the Growth of Our Business The Company must continually offer new products and services The Company sells our products and services in industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. Our success depends in large part on continuous, timely and cost effective development and introduction of new products and services as well as improvements to our existing products and services, which address these evolving market requirements and are attractive to customers. For example, if the Company does not appropriately innovate and invest in new technologies, then our technologies will become dated and our customers could move to new technologies offered by our competitors and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve. These facts require us to make appropriate investments in the development and identification of new technologies and products and services. As a result, the Company is continually looking to develop, license and acquire new technologies and products and services to further broaden and deepen our already broad product and service line. Once the Company has developed or obtained a new technology, to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products and services that are accepted by our markets, we may not obtain an adequate return on our research and development, licensing and acquisition investments and could lose market share to our competitors, which would be difficult to regain and could seriously damage our business. Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of our products and services include: availability, quality and price as compared to competitive products and services; the functionality of new and existing products and services, and their conformity to industry standards and regulatory standards that may be applicable to our customers; the timing of introduction of our products and services as compared to competitive products and services; scientists and customers opinions of the products or services utility and our ability to incorporate their feedback into future products and services; the extent to which new products and services are within the scope of our proven expertise; citation of the products and services in published research; and general trends in life sciences research and life science informatics software development. The Company must be able to manufacture new and improved products to meet customer demand on a timely and cost effective basis The Company must be able to resolve in a timely manner manufacturing issues that may arise from time to time as we commence production of our complex products. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in manufacturing improved or new products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand could diminish future demand for our products and harm our business. The Company may not successfully integrate the Applied Biosystems business or realize all of the anticipated benefits of our merger with Applied Biosystems On November 21, 2008, the Company completed the merger with Applied Biosystems, a leading worldwide biotechnology company similar in size to our company prior to the acquisition, whereby, among other things, Applied Biosystems become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. To be successful after the merger, the Company needs to combine and integrate the separate organizations and operations of the two companies. The combination of two independent companies, particularly in the case of an acquisition of this size, is a complex, costly, and time consuming process. While the integration is progressing well, it is not yet complete. As a result, we must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices and operations of the two companies. The Company may encounter difficulties that could harm the combined businesses, adversely affect our financial condition, and cause our stock price to decline. 12 Table of Contents Even if the operations of the two organizations are integrated successfully, the combined company may not fully realize the expected benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings, or sales or growth opportunities. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. The success of the combined company depends on many factors outside of our control, including, for example, general economic conditions, the level of governmental funding of life sciences research and development, demand for the types of products and services that we offer, market acceptance of our products and services, the availability of supplies needed for our products and services, and the level of competition from other companies. The Companys future growth depends in part on our ability to acquire new products, services, and technologies through additional acquisitions, which may absorb significant resources and may not be successful As part of the Companys strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made and continue to make acquisitions. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and divert significant amounts of managements time from other projects. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, there is no guarantee that some of the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions do not reach our initial expectations, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the following, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability: any acquired business, technology, service or product could under perform relative to our expectations and the price that the Company paid for it; the Company could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems; the Company could have difficulty in retaining key managers and other employees of the acquired company; acquisition related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results; acquisitions could place unanticipated demands on the Companys management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems; we may be unable to achieve cost savings anticipated in connection with the integration of an acquired business; in an acquisition, the Company may assume contingent liabilities that become realized, liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, unknown liabilities that come to light or deficiencies in internal controls, and the realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial position; and we may have disagreements or disputes with the prior owners of an acquired business, technology, service or product that may result in litigation expenses and a distraction of our managements attention. The Company may not successfully manage its current and future divestitures, and as a result, may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of such divestitures On January 29, 2010, we completed the sale of our mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation. In connection with this sale, we entered into a transition services agreement and other transactional and commercial agreements with Danaher Corporation. We will rely on Danaher Corporation to satisfy its payment and performance obligations under these agreements, and any failure by Danaher Corporation to do so, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we continually evaluate the performance and strategic fit of our businesses and may decide to sell a business, product line or technology based on such an evaluation. Divestitures, including the sale of our mass spectrometry business, could involve additional risks, including the following: difficulties in the separation of operations, services, products and personnel; 13 Table of Contents the diversion of managements attention from other business concerns; the need to agree to retain or assume certain current or future liabilities in order to complete the divestiture; the disruption of our business; and the potential loss of key employees. Any divestitures may result in significant write offs, including those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies at acceptable prices and terms and in a timely manner. We may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that we encounter in divesting a business or product line, and as a result, we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of the divestiture. The Company faces significant competition The markets for our products and services are very competitive and price sensitive. Our competitors, which could include some of our customers, such as large pharmaceutical companies, have significant financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and experience in research and development. Our competitors could develop new technologies that compete with our products and services or even render our products and services obsolete. If a competitor develops a superior technology or cost effective alternatives to our products and services, our business could be seriously harmed. The markets for some of our products are also subject to specific competitive risks. These markets are highly price competitive. Our competitors have competed in the past by lowering prices on certain products. If they do so again we may be forced to respond by lowering our prices and thereby reduce our revenues and profits. Failure to anticipate and respond to price competition may hurt our market share. The Company believes that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product. Therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. Additionally, there are numerous scientists making materials themselves instead of using kits or reagents that we supply. To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop and supply new products, customers may buy from our competitors or make materials themselves, causing our competitive position to suffer. Consolidation trends in both our market and that of our customers have increased competition There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for the past several years. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could harm our business. Additionally, there has been a trend toward consolidation in many of the customer markets we sell to, in particular the pharmaceutical industry. Consolidation in our customer markets results in increased competition for important market segments and fewer available accounts, and larger consolidated customers may be able to exert increased pricing pressure on companies in our market. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets may significantly harm our revenue, profitability and results of operations The global economy has experienced a significant economic downturn. If the economic downturn continues or worsens in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products and or services, this could reduce demand for these products and or services and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Global credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. Business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products and or services in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume that could harm our results of operations. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and 14 Table of Contents international economies may also cause our customers to reduce their purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to address liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. Significant government investment and allocation of resources to assist the economic recovery of sectors which do not include our customers may reduce the resources available for government grants and related funding for life sciences research and development. Economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers ability to supply us with sufficient quantities of product components in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to manufacture our products. It is difficult to determine the extent of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers and our business in general. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm our sales, profitability and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales are dependent upon our customers capital spending policies and research and development budgets, and government funding of research and development programs at universities and other organizations, which are subject to significant and unexpected decreases Our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, and private foundations. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets at these organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities, general economic conditions, and institutional and governmental budgetary policies. Also, a significant portion of our instrument product sales are capital purchases by our customers, and these policies fluctuate due to similar factors. Our business could be seriously damaged by any significant decrease in capital equipment purchases or life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, or private foundations. The timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government funding of research may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. Research funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to the previous years and has declined in some countries, and some grants have been frozen for extended periods of time or otherwise become unavailable to various institutions, sometimes without advance notice. In particular, approximately 20% of our sales have been to researchers whose funding is dependent upon grants from the NIH. Although the level of research funding increased significantly during the years of 1999 through 2003, increases for fiscal 2004 through 2009 were significantly lower. While the United States Federal Stimulus package passed in 2009, temporarily increasing funding for the NIH, this is a one time event. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Other programs, such as homeland security or defense, or general efforts to reduce the federal budget deficit could be viewed by the United States government as a higher priority. These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities. Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced NIH and other research and development allocations. Any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could seriously damage our business. Our United States customers generally receive funds from approved grants at particular times of the year, as determined by the United States federal government. In the past, such grants have been frozen for extended periods or have otherwise become unavailable to various institutions without advance notice. The timing of the receipt of grant funds affects the timing of purchase decisions by our customers and, as a result, can cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results. Some of our customers are requiring us to change our sales arrangements to lower their costs which may limit our pricing flexibility and harm our business Some of our customers have developed purchasing initiatives to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase to lower their supply costs. In some cases these accounts have established agreements with large distributors, which include discounts and the distributors direct involvement with the purchasing process. These activities may force us to supply the large distributors with our products at a discount to reach those customers. For 15 Table of Contents similar reasons, many larger customers, including the United States government, have requested and may in the future request, special pricing arrangements, including blanket purchase agreements. These agreements may limit our pricing flexibility, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For a limited number of customers, we have made sales, at the customers request, through third party online intermediaries, to whom we are required to pay commissions. If such intermediary sales grow, it could have a negative impact on our gross margins. Risks Related to the Development and Manufacturing of Our Products Our business depends on our ability to license new technologies from others The Company believes our ability to in license new technologies from third parties is and will continue to be critical to our ability to offer new products and therefore to our business. A significant portion of our current revenues is from products manufactured or sold under licenses from third parties. Our ability to gain access to technologies that we need for new products and services depends in part on our ability to convince inventors and their agents or assignees that we can successfully commercialize their inventions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to identify new technologies of interest to our customers, which are developed by others. Even if we are able to identify new technologies of interest, we may not be able to negotiate a license on acceptable terms, or at all. Our business could be harmed if we lose rights to technologies that we have licensed from others Several of our licenses, such as licenses for biological materials, have finite terms. We may not be able to renew these existing licenses on favorable terms, or at all. Licenses for biological materials such as antibodies are of growing significance to our product and service offerings. If we lose the rights to a biological material or a patented technology, we may need to stop selling these products and or services and possibly other products and services, redesign our products, or lose a competitive advantage. While some of our licenses are exclusive to us in certain markets, potential competitors could also in license technologies that we fail to license exclusively and potentially erode our market share for these and other products and services. Our licenses also typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations we could lose important rights under a license, such as exclusivity. In some cases, we could lose all rights under a license. Loss of such rights could, in some cases, harm our business. In addition, some rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons outside of our control. For example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. Changes in patent law could affect the value of the licensed technology. We may receive third party claims of intellectual property infringement for which we may not be indemnified by the licensor. Violation of government regulations or voluntary quality programs could harm demand for our products or services Some of our products and test services are regulated by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and comparable agencies in other countries. As a result we must register with the state and federal FDA as both a medical device and diagnostic manufacturer and a manufacturer of drug products and comply with all required regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations can lead to sanctions by the FDA, such as written observations made following inspections, warning letters, product recalls, fines, product seizures, and consent decrees. Test data for use in client submissions with the FDA could be disqualified. If the FDA were to take such actions, the FDAs sanctions would be available to the public. This publicity could harm our ability to sell these regulated products globally. Medical device laws and regulations are also in effect in many countries, ranging from comprehensive device approval requirements to requests for product data or certifications. The number and scope of these requirements is increasing. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or may incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining our foreign regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our products 16 Table of Contents which have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA or other export restrictions. Additionally, some of our customers use our products and services in the manufacturing process for their drug and medical device products, and such end products are regulated by the FDA under Quality System Regulations, or QSR. Although the customer is ultimately responsible for QSR compliance for their products, it is also the customers expectation that the materials sold to them will meet QSR requirements. We could lose sales and customers and be exposed to product liability claims, if our products do not meet QSR requirements. ISO 13485 is an internationally recognized voluntary quality standard that requires compliance with a variety of quality requirements somewhat similar to the QSR requirements. Our facilities in Camarillo, California; Frederick, Maryland; Grand Island, New York; Madison, Wisconsin; Bromborough, United Kingdom; Paisley, Scotland; Oslo, Norway; and Singapore are each intended to comply with ISO 13485. Failure to comply with this voluntary standard can lead to observations of non compliance or even suspension of ISO certification by the registrar. If we lose ISO certification, this loss could cause some customers to purchase products from other suppliers. If the Company violates a government mandated or voluntary quality program, we may incur additional expense to come back into compliance with the government mandated or voluntary standards. That expense may be material and we may not have anticipated that expense in our financial forecasts. Our financial results could suffer as a result of these increased expenses. The Company relies on other companies for the manufacture of some of our products and also for the supply of some components of the products we manufacture on our own which may hinder our ability to satisfy customer demand Although the Company has contracts with most of these manufacturers and suppliers, their operations could be disrupted. These disruptions could be caused by conditions unrelated to our business or operations, including the current global economic downturn. Although we have our own manufacturing facilities, we believe that it could take considerable time and resources for us to establish the capability to do so. Accordingly, if these other manufacturers or suppliers are unable or fail to fulfill their obligations to us, we might not be able to satisfy customer demand in a timely manner, and our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Operations Loss of key personnel may adversely affect our business Our products and services are highly technical in nature. In general, only highly qualified and trained scientists have the necessary skills to develop and market our products and provide our services. In addition, some of our manufacturing positions are highly technical as well. We face intense competition for these professionals from our competitors, customers, marketing partners, and other companies throughout our industry. We do not generally enter into employment agreements requiring these employees to continue in our employment for any period of time. Any failure on our part to hire, train, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could seriously damage our business. Additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. Further, we use stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units/awards to provide incentives to these individuals to remain with us and to build their long term stockholder value to align their interests with those of the Company. If our stock price decreases, this reduces the value of these equity awards and therefore a key employees incentive to stay. If we were to lose a sufficient number of our key employees and were unable to replace them, these losses could seriously damage our business. We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our cash flows, business and financial condition As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $3,101.8 billion. As of December 31, 2009, we also had availability of $235.7 million (net of standby letters of credit of $14.3 million) under our revolving credit facility. 17 Table of Contents Our substantial level of debt could, among other things: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other purposes; increase our vulnerability to, and limit our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase; limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; adversely affect our stock price; limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering, debt incurrence or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of our debt; and limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock. Our credit facilities contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business Our credit facilities contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our subsidiaries ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees or other contingent obligations); pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect to our common stock or make other restricted payments; make specified investments (including loans and advances); sell or transfer assets; create liens; consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, under our credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot be assured that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facilities, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries assets as collateral under our credit facilities. The Company could incur more indebtedness, which may increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends on our common stock The indentures governing our senior convertible notes and our credit facilities permit us, under some circumstances, to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. For example, our credit facilities allow us to incur up to an additional $500.0 million of incremental term loans or revolving commitments under our credit facility, subject to certain conditions. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness through our revolving credit facility. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt and pay dividends on our common stock, would increase. This, in turn, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. The Company could lose the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our convertible senior notes due in 2023, the convertible senior notes due in 2024 and the convertible senior notes due in 2025 The Company could lose some or all of the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our convertible senior notes due in 2023, the convertible senior notes due in 2024, and the convertible senior notes due in 2025 if, 18 Table of Contents under certain circumstances, the foregoing notes are not subject to the special Treasury Regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments or the exchange of these notes is deemed to be a taxable exchange. We also could lose the tax deduction for interest expense associated with the foregoing notes if we were to invest in non taxable investments. Our federal, state and local income tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by the taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties The Company is subject to federal, state and local taxes in the United States and abroad. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the Company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. The Companys business, particularly the development and marketing of information based products and services, depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, and Internet applications and related tools and functions The Companys business requires manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, and communicating the results of the analysis to our internal research personnel and to our customers via the Internet. Also, we rely on a global enterprise software system to operate and manage our business. Our business therefore depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, Internet servers, and related infrastructure. To the extent that our hardware or software malfunctions or access to our data by internal research personnel or customers through the Internet is interrupted, our business could suffer. The Companys computer and communications hardware is protected through physical and software safeguards. However, it is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break ins, software viruses, and similar events. In addition, our online products and services are complex and sophisticated, and as such, could contain data, design, or software errors that could be difficult to detect and correct. Software defects could be found in current or future products. If we fail to maintain and further develop the necessary computer capacity and data to support our computational needs and our customers access to information based product and service offerings, we could experience a loss of or delay in revenues or market acceptance. In addition, any sustained disruption in Internet access provided by other companies could harm our business. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses The Companys worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our principal research and development, manufacturing and administrative facilities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults and fire zones. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults, fire zones and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural disaster. Risks Related to Our International Operations International unrest or foreign currency fluctuations could cause volatility in our international sales and our financial results. The Companys products are currently marketed in approximately 160 countries throughout the world. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our foreign subsidiaries and export sales from the United 19 Table of Contents States, represented 61% of our product revenues in 2009, 56% of our product revenues in 2008 and 53% of our product revenues in 2007. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, including those related to: foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, potentially reducing the United States Dollars we receive for sales denominated in foreign currency; the possibility that unfriendly nations or groups could boycott our products; general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures; potential trade restrictions and exchange controls; more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries, whether due to cultural differences, exchange rate fluctuation or other factors; import and export licensing requirements; and changes to our distribution networks. A significant portion of the Companys revenues are received in currencies other than the United States dollar, which is our reporting currency. Most of our costs, however, are incurred in United States dollars. While we have at times attempted to hedge our net cash flows in currencies other than the United States dollar, our hedging program relies in part on forecasts of these cash flows. As a result, we cannot guarantee this program will adequately protect our cash flows from the full effects of exchange rate fluctuations. We also continually evaluate the costs and benefits of our hedging program and cannot guarantee that we will continue to conduct hedging activities. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates for the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause fluctuations in the United States dollar value of our financial results. We cannot predict the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations upon our future financial results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the volatility of currency exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property The Company may not be able to effectively and efficiently protect and enforce our proprietary technology The Companys success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies. When we develop such technologies, we routinely seek patent protection in the United States and abroad to the extent permitted by law. However, the intellectual property rights of biotechnology companies, including us, involve complex factual, scientific, and legal questions. We cannot assure that patents will be granted on any of our patent applications or that the scope of any of our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. Even if we receive a patent that we believe is valid for a particular technology, we may not be able to realize the expected value to us from that technology due to several factors, including the following: Although we have licensing programs to provide industry access to some of our patent rights, some other companies have in the past refused to participate in these licensing programs and some companies may refuse to participate in them in the future. Also, our licenses typically provide our customers with access for limited use of our technology, such as for certain fields of use or to provide certain kinds of products and services. The validity of the restrictions contained in these licenses could be contested, and we cannot provide assurances that we would either be aware of an unauthorized use or be able to enforce the restrictions in a cost effective manner; Legal actions to enforce patent rights can be expensive and may involve the diversion of significant management time. Our enforcement actions may not be successful, and furthermore they could give risk to legal claims against us and could result in the invalidation of some of our intellectual property rights or legal determinations that they are not enforceable; 20 Table of Contents The Company only seeks to have patents issued in selected countries. Third parties can make, use and sell products covered by our patents in any country in which we do not have patent protection; The Companys issued patents or patents we exclusively license from others could be successfully challenged through legal actions or other proceedings, such as by challenging the validity and scope of a patent with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, foreign patent offices, or the International Trade Commission. These actions or proceedings could result in amendments to or rejection of certain patent claims; and Judicial decisions in third party litigation and legislative changes could harm the value of our patents and the effectiveness of our label licenses by altering our rights to our technology. The Company is currently, and could in the future be, subject to lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations, and other legal actions with private parties and governmental entities, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and we may need to obtain licenses to intellectual property from others The outcome of legal actions is inherently uncertain, and we cannot be sure that we will prevail in any of these actions. An adverse determination in some of our current legal actions could harm our business and financial condition. Our products are based on complex, rapidly developing technologies. These products could be developed without knowledge of previously filed patent applications that mature into patents that cover some aspect of these technologies. In addition, we may seek to protect and commercialize a technology even though we are aware that patents have been applied for and, in some cases, issued to others claiming technologies that are closely related to ours. Because patent litigation is complex and the outcome inherently uncertain, our belief that our products do not infringe valid and enforceable patents owned by others could be successfully challenged. We have from time to time been notified that we may be infringing on the patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Also, in the course of our business, we may from time to time have access to confidential or proprietary information of others, and they could bring a claim against us asserting that we had misappropriated their technologies which, though not patented, are protected as trade secrets, and had improperly incorporated those technologies into our products. Due to these factors, litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights is extensive in the biotechnology industry, and there remains a constant risk of intellectual property litigation and other legal actions affecting us, which could include antitrust claims. From time to time, we have been made a party to litigation and have been subject to other legal actions regarding intellectual property matters, which have included claims of violations of antitrust laws. These actions, some of which if determined adversely, could harm our business and financial condition. To avoid or settle legal claims, it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more products or relating to current or future technologies. We may not be able to obtain these licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and might need to discontinue an important product or product line or alter our products and processes. In some situations, settlement of claims may require an agreement to cease allegedly infringing activities. The Company is involved in several legal actions that could affect our intellectual property rights and our products and services. The cost of litigation and the amount of management time associated with these cases has been, and is expected to continue to be, significant. These matters might not be resolved favorably. If they are not resolved favorably, we could be enjoined from selling the products or services in question or other products or services as a result, and monetary or other damages could be assessed against us. The damages assessed against us could include damages for past infringement, which in some cases can be trebled by the court. These outcomes could harm our business or financial condition. Disclosure of trade secrets could cause harm to our business The Company attempts to protect our trade secrets by, among other things, entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, our employees, and our consultants. However, these agreements can be breached and, if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. If our trade secrets become known, we may lose our competitive position. 21 Table of Contents Some of the intellectual property that is important to our business is owned by other companies or institutions and licensed to us, and legal actions against them could harm our business Even if we are not a party to these legal actions, an adverse outcome could harm our business because it might prevent these other companies or institutions from continuing to license intellectual property that we may need for our business. Furthermore, an adverse outcome could result in infringement or other legal actions being brought directly against us. Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability Issues Risks related to handling of hazardous materials and other regulations governing environmental safety The Companys research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of potentially hazardous materials, including biological materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. Also, some of our products are hazardous materials or include hazardous materials. Our operations also involve the generation, transportation and storage of waste. These activities are subject to complex and stringent federal, state, local, and foreign environmental, health, safety and other governmental laws, regulations, and permits governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the shipment and labeling of materials and products containing hazardous materials. Both public officials and private individuals or organizations may seek to enforce these legal requirements against us. While we believe we are in material compliance with these laws, regulations, and permits, we could discover that we are not in material compliance. Under some laws and regulations, a party can be subject to strict liability for damages caused by some hazardous materials, which means that a party can be liable without regard to fault or negligence. Existing laws and regulations may also be revised or reinterpreted, or new laws and regulations may become applicable to us, whether retroactively or prospectively, that may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. It is therefore impossible to eliminate completely the risk of contamination or injury from the hazardous and other materials that we use in our business and products. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or permits, or if we are held strictly liable under any of these laws, regulations, or permits despite our compliance, we could be subject to substantial fine or penalty, payment of remediation costs, loss of permits, and or other adverse governmental action, and we could be liable for substantial damages. Any of these events could harm our business and financial condition. In acquiring Dexter Corporation in 2000, we assumed certain of Dexter Corporations environmental liabilities, including clean up of formerly owned locations as well as several hazardous waste sites listed on the National Priority List under federal Superfund law. We also assumed certain Applied Biosystems environmental liabilities, including clean up of formerly owned locations as well as hazardous waste sites under state and federal environmental laws, in connection with our acquisition of Applied Biosystems in 2008. Unexpected results related to the investigation and clean up of any of these sites could cause our financial exposure in these matters to exceed stated reserves and insurance, requiring us to allocate additional funds and other resources to address our environmental liabilities, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business. Potential product liability claims could cause harm to our business We face a potential risk of liability claims based on our products or services. We carry product liability insurance coverage, which is limited in scope and amount. We cannot assure, however, that we will be able to maintain this insurance at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. We also cannot assure that this insurance will be adequate to protect us against a product liability claim, should one arise. Some of our services include the manufacture of biologic products to be tested in human clinical trials. We could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with these services, even though we are not the party performing the clinical trials. In addition, we formulate, test and manufacture products intended for use by the public. These activities could expose us to risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using such products. We seek to reduce our potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with clients (the scope of which may vary from client to client and the performances of which are not secured), insurance maintained by clients and conducting certain of these businesses through subsidiaries. Nonetheless, we could be materially harmed if we were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim 22 Table of Contents that is outside the scope of the indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although applicable, is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of applicable insurance or indemnity. In addition, we could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services we perform. We currently maintain product liability and errors and omissions insurance with respect to these risks. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Risks Related to the Market for Our Securities Operating results and the market price of our stock and convertible notes could be volatile Our operating results and the price of our stock and convertible notes have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to fluctuations as a result of a number of factors, including those listed in this section of this Annual Report and those we have failed to foresee. Our stock price and the price of our convertible notes could also be affected by any of the following: inability to meet analysts expectations; general fluctuations in the stock market, or fluctuations in the stock prices of companies in our industry or those of our customers; conditions and publicity regarding the genomics, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, or life sciences industries generally, including, for example, comments by securities analysts or public officials regarding such matters. Such volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of many companies securities for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and has in the past led to securities class action litigation. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. ITEM 2. Properties We own or lease approximately 3,000,000 square feet of property being used in current operations at the following principal locations within the United States, each of which contains office, manufacturing, storage and or laboratory facilities: Carlsbad, California (owned (land only) and leased) Frederick, Maryland (owned and leased) Grand Island, New York (owned and leased) Madison, Wisconsin (owned and leased) Brown Deer, Wisconsin (leased) Eugene, Oregon (owned and leased) Branford, Connecticut (leased) Camarillo, California (leased) Foster City, California (owned and leased) San Carlos, California (leased) Hayward, California (leased) (Closed October 2009) Pleasanton, California (owned) Norwalk, Connecticut (leased) Washington, District of Columbia (leased) Bedford, Massachusetts (leased) Beverly, Massachusetts (leased) Framingham, Massachusetts (leased) Woburn, Massachusetts (leased) Durham, North Carolina (leased) Austin, Texas (leased) Grand Prairie, Texas (leased) 23 Table of Contents In addition, we own or lease approximately 1,500,000 square feet of property at locations outside the United States including these principal locations, each of which also contains office, manufacturing, storage and or laboratory facilities: Glasgow area, Scotland (owned) Paisley, Scotland (leased) Oslo, Norway (owned (land only) and leased) Auckland and Christchurch, New Zealand (owned and leased) Shanghai and Beijing, China (leased) Newcastle, Australia (owned and leased) Darmstadt, Germany (leased) Warrington, United Kingdom (owned and leased) Rotterdam, Netherlands (leased) Bleiswijk, Netherlands (leased) Singapore (leased) Tokyo, Japan (leased) Narita, Japan (owned) (Closed in 2009) Shanghai, China (leased) In addition to the principal properties listed above, we lease other properties in locations throughout the world, including India, Japan, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Singapore, Thailand, Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Israel, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain. Many of our plants have been constructed, renovated or expanded during the past ten years. We are currently using substantially all of our finished space, with some space available for expansion at some of our locations. We consider the facilities to be in a condition suitable for their current uses. Because of anticipated growth in the business and due to the increasing requirements of customers or regulatory agencies, we may need to acquire additional space or upgrade and enhance existing space during the next five years. We believe that adequate facilities will be available upon the conclusion of our leases. We also have leases in Branford, Connecticut; Bethesda and Rockville, Maryland; Worcester, Massachusetts; South San Francisco, California; and Auckland, New Zealand; which are subleased or are being offered for sublease. These properties are not used in current operations and therefore are not included in the discussion above. Most of our products and services are manufactured or provided from our facilities in Austin, Texas; Bedford, Massachusetts; Carlsbad, Camarillo, Foster City and Pleasanton, California; Eugene, Oregon; Frederick, Maryland; Grand Island, New York; Madison, Wisconsin; Auckland, New Zealand; Oslo, Norway; Paisley, Scotland; and Warrington, United Kingdom. We also have manufacturing facilities in Japan, Israel and Singapore. Additional information regarding our properties is contained in Notes 1 and 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10 K. ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings We are subject to potential liabilities under government regulations and various claims and legal actions that are pending or may be asserted. These matters have arisen in the ordinary course and conduct of our business, as well as through acquisitions. They include, for example, commercial, intellectual property, environmental, securities, and employment matters. Some are expected to be covered, at least partly, by insurance. Estimated amounts for claims that are probable and can be reasonably estimated are reflected as liabilities in the consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have meritorious defenses against the claims currently asserted against us and intend to defend them vigorously. However, the ultimate resolution of these matters is subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot be sure that we will prevail in our defense of claims currently asserted against us. It is reasonably possible that some of the matters that are pending or may be asserted could be decided unfavorably to us, and an adverse determination could harm our business or financial condition. ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders None. 24 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market and Stockholder Information The Companys common stock trades on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol LIFE. Our common stock previously traded under the symbol IVGN. The trading symbol was changed prior to November 24, 2008, in connection with the change of our corporate name from Invitrogen Corporation to Life Technologies Corporation. The table below provides the high and low sales prices of our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported by The NASDAQ Global Select Market. High Low Year ended December 31, 2009 Fourth quarter $ 52.70 $ 45.30 Third quarter 48.46 39.49 Second quarter 41.92 30.50 First quarter 33.33 22.99 Year ended December 31, 2008 Fourth quarter $ 38.52 $ 19.56 Third quarter 44.65 36.56 Second quarter 48.13 36.73 First quarter 49.00 38.89 On February 24, 2010, the last reported sale price of our common stock was $50.26. As of February 24, 2010, there were approximately 4,812 stockholders of record of our common stock. The approximate number of holders is based upon the actual number of holders registered in our records at such date and excludes holders of shares in street name or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations, or other entities identified in security positions listings maintained by depository trust companies. The calculations of the market value of shares of Life Technologies stock held by non affiliates as of June 30, 2009, shown on the cover of this report, was made on the assumption that there were no affiliates other than executive officers and directors as of the date of calculation. 25 Table of Contents Price Performance Graph Set forth below is a graph comparing the total return on an indexed basis of a $100 investment in the Companys common stock, the NASDAQ Composite (US) Index and the NASDAQ BioPharmaceutical Index. The measurement points utilized in the graph consist of the last trading day in each calendar year, which closely approximates the last day of the respective fiscal year of the Company. Dividends We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and currently do not anticipate paying such cash dividends. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development and expansion of our business, debt repayment and general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, tax laws and other factors as the Board of Directors, in its discretion, deems relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends in the future may be restricted by the financial covenants of our credit agreement that was executed in November 2008 in connection with the merger with Applied Biosystems. Securities Purchased Under Life Technologies Stock Repurchase Program In July 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a program authorizing management to repurchase up to $500.0 million of common stock over the next three years, of which $265.0 million remains open and available for purchase at December 31, 2009. Under this plan, the Company repurchased 1.2 million shares at a total cost of approximately $100.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. No shares have been repurchased 26 Table of Contents for the year ended December 31, 2009. The cost of repurchased shares are included in treasury stock and reported as a reduction in stockholders equity. The amount of stock the Company is able to repurchase is limited by the covenants of the debt financing associated with the Applied Biosystems merger. ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data The following selected data should be read in conjunction with our financial statements located elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10 K and Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FIVE YEAR SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (in thousands, except per share data) 2009(1) 2008(1,2) 2007(1) 2006(1,3) 2005(1,4) Revenues $ 3,280,344 $ 1,620,323 $ 1,281,747 $ 1,151,175 $ 1,079,137 Gross profit 1,824,725 940,752 715,887 608,331 549,535 Net income from continuing operations 144,594 4,356 106,238 53,188 102,348 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations 1,358 12,911 (266,808 ) 10,561 Net income (loss) 144,594 5,714 119,149 (213,620 ) 112,909 Earnings from continuing operations per common share: Basic $ 0.82 $ 0.05 $ 1.13 $ 0.52 $ 0.99 Diluted $ 0.80 $ 0.04 $ 1.10 $ 0.51 $ 0.92 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations per common share: Basic $ 0.01 $ 0.14 $ (2.60 ) $ 0.10 Diluted $ 0.01 $ 0.13 $ (2.52 ) $ 0.09 Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.82 $ 0.06 $ 1.27 $ (2.08 ) $ 1.09 Diluted $ 0.80 $ 0.05 $ 1.23 $ (2.01 ) $ 1.01 Current assets $ 1,796,164 $ 1,612,171 $ 1,090,484 $ 740,604 $ 1,079,234 Noncurrent assets 7,319,576 7,286,588 2,225,966 2,168,212 2,231,655 Current liabilities (including convertible debt) 1,385,723 1,007,242 234,413 228,086 468,148 Noncurrent liabilities (including convertible debt) 3,703,349 4,434,979 1,232,406 1,178,988 1,172,930 Total stockholders equity 4,026,668 3,456,538 1,847,125 1,736,146 2,170,084 (1) During 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 the Company completed acquisitions that were not material and their results of operations have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition. See Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) 2008 includes the results of operations of Applied Biosystems, Inc. from November 21, 2008, the date of acquisition, and the one time purchase accounting charges associate with the merger such as in process research and development, which affects the comparability of the Selected Financial Data. (3) In 2006, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation in which share based payments are included in the results of operations and impacts the net income as reported. This adoption affects comparability between the Selected Financial Data. See Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) 2005 includes the results of operations of Dynal Biotech Holding from April 1, 2005, the date of acquisition, which affects the comparability of the Selected Financial Data. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW The Company is a global biotechnology tools company dedicated to helping our customers make scientific discoveries and ultimately improve the quality of life. Our systems, reagents, and services enable researchers to accelerate scientific exploration, driving to discoveries and developments that make life better. Life Technologies customers do their work across the biological spectrum, working to advance genomic medicine, regenerative science, molecular diagnostics, agricultural and environmental research, and 21st century forensics. In 2009, the Company had sales of approximately $3,280.3 million, employed 9,000 people, had a presence in more than 160 countries, and possessed a rapidly growing intellectual property estate of over 3,900 patents and exclusive licenses. The Companys systems and reagents, enable, simplify and improve a broad spectrum of biological research of genes, proteins and cells within academic and life science research and commercial applications. Our scientific know how is making biodiscovery research techniques more effective and efficient to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, government and academic researchers with backgrounds in a wide range of scientific disciplines. The Company offers many different products and services, and is continually developing and or acquiring others. Some of our specific product categories include the following: High throughput gene cloning and expression technology, which allows customers to clone and expression test genes on an industrial scale. Pre cast electrophoresis products, which improve the speed, reliability and convenience of separating nucleic acids and proteins. Antibodies, which allow researchers to capture and label proteins, visualize their location through use of Molecular Probes dyes and discern their role in disease. Magnetic beads, which are used in a variety of settings, such as attachment of molecular labels, nucleic acid purification, and organ and bone marrow tissue type testing. Molecular Probes fluorescence based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. Transfection reagents, which are widely used to transfer genetic elements into living cells enabling the study of protein function and gene regulation. PCR and Real Time PCR systems and reagents, which enable researchers to amplify and detect targeted nucleic acids (DNA and RNA molecules) for a host of applications in molecular biology. Cell culture media and reagents used to preserve and grow mammalian cells, which are used in large scale cGMP bio production facilities to produce large molecule biologic therapies. RNA Interference reagents, which enable scientists to selectively turn off genes in biology systems to gain insight into biological pathways. Capillary electrophoresis and massively parallel SOLiDtm DNA sequencing systems and reagents, which are used to discover sources of genetic and epigenetic variation, to catalog the DNA structure of organisms de novo, to verify the composition of genetic research material, and to apply these genetic analysis discoveries in markets such as forensic human identification. During 2009, we aligned our products and services into the following four divisions: Molecular Biology Systems, Genetic Systems, Cell Systems and Mass Spectrometry. The Mass Spectrometry division was comprised of a 50% interest in a joint venture that the Company acquired as a part of the AB acquisition. The Company sold the Mass Spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation on January 29, 2010. The Company accounted for this investment using the equity method. Our share of earnings or losses, including revenue, is included in other income. The MBS division includes the molecular biology based technologies including basic and real time PCR, RNAi, DNA synthesis, thermo cycler instrumentation, cloning and protein expression profiling and protein analysis. The CS division includes all product lines used in the study of cell function, including cell culture media and sera, stem cells and related tools, cellular imaging products, antibodies, drug discovery services, and cell therapy related products. The GS division includes sequencing systems and reagents, including capillary electrophoresis and the SOLiD system, as well as reagent kits developed specifically for applied markets, such as forensics, food safety and pharmaceutical quality monitoring. Upon completion of the acquisition of AB in 2008, we commenced the process 28 Table of Contents of integrating the businesses and administration of the combined companies. A key part of this process was a reorganization of the business, research and development, and sales and marketing organizations within Life Technologies such that they are focused on optimizing the unique technologies and capabilities of the combined companies to drive new developments and business performance. The principal markets for our products include the life sciences research market and the biopharmaceutical production market. We divide our principal market and customer base into principally three categories: Life science researchers. The life sciences research market consists of laboratories generally associated with universities, medical research centers, government institutions such as the United States National Institutes of Health, or the NIH, and other research institutions as well as biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, energy, agricultural, and chemical companies. Researchers at these institutions are using our products and services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities, such as: searching for drugs or other techniques to combat a wide variety of diseases, such as cancer and viral and bacterial disease; researching diagnostics for disease identification or for improving the efficacy of drugs to targeted patient groups; and assisting in vaccine design, bioproduction, and agriculture. Our products and services provide the research tools needed for genomics studies, proteomics studies, gene splicing, cellular analysis, and other key research applications that are required by these life science researchers. In addition, our research tools are important in the development of diagnostics for disease determination as well as identification of patients for more targeted therapy. Commercial producers of biopharmaceutical and other high valued proteins. We serve industries that apply genetic engineering to the commercial production of useful but otherwise rare or difficult to obtain substances, such as proteins, interferons, interleukins, t PA and monoclonal antibodies. The manufacturers of these materials require larger quantities of the same sera and other cell growth media that we provide in smaller quantities to researchers. Industries involved in the commercial production of genetically engineered products include the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, food processing and agricultural industries. Users who apply our technologies to enable or improve particular activities. We provide tools that apply our technology to enable or improve activities in particular markets, which we refer to as applied markets. The current focus of our products for these markets is in the areas of: forensic analysis, which is used to identify individuals based on their DNA; quality and safety testing, such as testing required to measure food, beverage, or environmental quality, and pharmaceutical manufacturing quality and safety; and biosecurity, which refers to products needed in response to the threat of biological terrorism and other malicious, accidental, and natural biological dangers. The Applied Biosystems branded forensic testing and human identification products and services are innovative and market leading tools that have been widely accepted by investigators and laboratories in connection with criminal investigations, the exoneration of individuals wrongly accused or convicted of crimes, identifying victims of disasters, and paternity testing. Our Strategy Our objective is to provide essential life science technologies for basic research, drug discovery, and development of diagnostic and commercial applications. Our strategies to achieve this objective include: New Product Innovation and Development Developing innovative new products. We place a great emphasis on internally developing new technologies for the life sciences research markets. Additionally, we are looking to leverage the broad range of our technologies to create unique customer application based solutions. A significant portion of our growth and current revenue base has been created by the application of technology to accelerate our customers research process, and to various Standardized testing environments such as human identification. In licensing technologies. We actively and selectively in license new technologies, which we modify to create high value kits, many of which address bottlenecks in the research or drug discovery laboratories. We have a dedicated group of individuals that are focused on in licensing technologies from academic and government institutions, as well as biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. 29 Table of Contents Acquisitions. We actively and selectively seek to acquire and integrate companies with complementary products and technologies, trusted brand names, strong market positions and strong intellectual property positions. We have made numerous acquisitions since becoming a public company in 1999. Divestitures. In September 2009, the Company announced a signed definitive agreement to sell its 50% ownership stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture and all assets related to the Companys mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation for $450.0 million in cash, subject to a conventional working capital adjustment. The transaction closed on January 29, 2010. Included in the sale of the mass spectrometry business is the ownership stake in the joint venture as well as selected assets and liabilities directly attributable to the mass spectrometry business. The Company approximates $280.0 million of net cash proceeds after taxes upon completion of the transaction. The joint venture generated pre tax net income of $20.3 million and $1.6 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The results of operations for the joint venture are presented as a single amount in the other income/(expense) line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Utilize Existing Sales, Distribution and Manufacturing Infrastructure Multi national sales footprint. We have developed a broad sales and distribution network with sales a presence in more than 160 countries. Our sales force is highly trained, with many of our sales people possessing degrees in molecular biology, biochemistry or related fields. We believe our sales force has a proven track record in successfully marketing our products across the globe and we expect to leverage this capacity to increase sales of our existing, newly developed and acquired products. High degree of customer satisfaction. Our sales, marketing, customer service and technical support staff provide our customers exceptional service and have been highly rated in customer satisfaction surveys. We use this strength to attract new customers and maintain existing customers. Rapid product delivery. We have the ability to ship typical consumable orders on a same day or next day basis. We use this ability to provide convenient service to our customers to generate additional sales. Invest in High Growth Markets We will focus our investments and resources in markets that provide high growth opportunities, particularly in four areas: Next Generation DNA Sequencing. Our SOLiD technology system represents the latest innovation in next generation sequencing, a method of sequencing the genome at high throughput and relatively low cost. We will continue to invest in cutting edge technology, customer collaborations, and sales force expertise to remain the leader in this important area of research. We will also continue to invest in future sequencing technologies that will allow for more rapid and lower cost sequencing. Emerging Geographies. We continue to focus and invest in high growth geographic markets such as China and India, with direct sales and marketing personnel, as well as manufacturing and distribution facilities. We will further optimize our presence in these markets by leveraging collaborations with key government and academic institutions and local companies. Regenerative Medicine. We are the premier provider of biological products and services for advancing the field of regenerative medicine. We will continue to invest in supplementing our comprehensive suite of product offerings, including animal origin free reagents for stem cell research, and unique primary and stem cells for drug discovery screening. Applied Markets. We will leverage the growing trend of applying biology based approaches to markets beyond basic life science research. We have a strong presence in these markets and we will continue to invest time and resources to further add to our product portfolio and customer contacts in many applied markets, including, but not limited to, forensics, food and water safety testing, agbio, animal health, and human diagnostics. 30 Table of Contents The Company anticipates that our results of operations may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis and will be difficult to predict. The timing and degree of fluctuation will depend upon several factors, including those discussed under our Risk Factors. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions) 2009 2008 $ Increase % Increase Molecular Biology Systems $ 1,581.6 $ 736.2 $ 845.4 115 % Cell Systems 788.7 747.4 41.3 6 % Genetic Systems 906.5 134.9 771.6 NM Corporate and other 3.5 1.8 1.7 94 % Total revenues $ 3,280.3 $ 1,620.3 $ 1,660.0 102 % Total gross margin $ 1,824.7 $ 940.8 $ 883.9 94 % Total gross margin % 56 % 58 % Revenues The Companys revenues increased by $1,660.0 million or 102% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in revenue is driven primarily by an increase of $1,649.4 million due to the acquisition of AB. The remaining year over year change in revenue was due to increases of $49.1 million in volume and pricing, partially offset by a decrease of $39.0 million in unfavorable currency impacts including hedging. As of January 1, 2009, we aligned our business under four divisions Molecular Biology Systems, Genetic Systems, Cell Systems and Mass Spectrometry. The Mass Spectrometry division is comprised of a 50% interest in a joint venture that the Company acquired as a part of the AB acquisition. The Company accounted for this investment using the equity method of accounting. Our share of earnings or losses related to the joint venture, including revenue and the related expenses, is included in other income. The Molecular Biology Systems (MBS) division includes the molecular biology based technologies including basic and real time PCR, RNAi, DNA synthesis, thermo cycler instrumentation, cloning and protein expression profiling and protein analysis. Revenue in this division increased by $845.4 million or 115% in 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $833.5 million from the acquisition of AB and $29.8 million in increased volume and pricing, partially offset by $17.9 million in unfavorable currency impacts including hedging. The Cell Systems (CS) division includes all product lines used in the study of cell function, including cell culture media and sera, stem cells and related tools, cellular imaging products, antibodies, drug discovery services, and cell therapy related products. Revenue in this division increased $41.3 million or 6% for 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $46.1 million from the acquisition of AB, $13.5 million in increased volume and pricing, and $0.9 million from acquisitions, partially offset by $19.2 million in unfavorable currency impacts including hedging. The Genetic System (GS) division includes sequencing systems and reagents, including capillary electrophoresis and the SOLiD system, as well as reagent kits developed specifically for applied markets, such as forensics, food safety and pharmaceutical quality monitoring. Revenue in this division increased by $771.6 million for 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by the acquisition of AB. Changes in exchange rates of foreign currencies, especially the Japanese yen, the British pound sterling, the euro and the Canadian dollar, can significantly increase or decrease our reported revenue on sales made in these currencies and could result in a material positive or negative impact on our reported results. In addition to currency exchange rates, we expect that future revenues will be affected by, among other things, new product introductions, competitive conditions, customer research budgets, government research funding, the rate of expansion of our customer base, price increases, product discontinuations and acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or product lines. 31 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross profit increased $883.9 million or 94% in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to the acquisition of AB as well as increased pricing on sales as defined in the revenue movement, offset by an increase of $195.7 million in purchased intangible assets amortization. Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets acquired in our business combinations was $282.6 million for 2009 compared to $86.9 million for 2008. The increase was the result of the amortization of intangibles resulting from the acquisition of AB. Gross profit for 2009 included an increase of $18.5 million and $29.9 million of deferred revenue adjustments and acquired inventory fair market value adjustments as a result of the AB acquisition. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, the acquired deferred revenue and inventory is adjusted to fair value. The Company amortizes this fair value adjustment into income in line with the underlying acquired assets and liabilities. Operating Expenses For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 As a As a Percentage Percentage Operating of Operating of $ Increase % Increase (in millions) Expense Revenues Expense Revenues (Decrease) (Decrease) Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative $ 987.1 30 % $ 499.3 31 % $ 487.8 98 % Research and development 337.1 10 % 142.5 9 % 194.6 137 % Business consolidation costs 112.9 3 % 38.6 2 % 74.3 192 % In process research and development 1.7 NM 93.3 6 % (91.6 ) (98 )% Selling, General and Administrative. For the year ended December 31, 2009, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $487.8 million or 98% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $448.3 million related to the acquisition of AB and an increase of $56.6 million in compensation, bonuses and benefits, partially offset by a decrease of $14.8 million in infrastructure costs. Research and Development. For the year ended December 31, 2009, research and development expenses increased $194.6 million or 137% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $193.1 million related to the acquisition of AB and an increase of $4.1 million in compensation, bonuses and benefits, partially offset by $2.0 million in favorable currency impacts. Business Consolidation Costs. Business consolidation costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $112.9 million, compared to $38.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and represent costs associated with our integration efforts related to AB and to realign our business and consolidate certain facilities. The increase in costs year over year is due to the ramp up of activities performed in the integration post merger, which was completed in November of 2008. Included in these costs are various activities related to the acquisition which were associated with combining the two companies and consolidating redundancies. Also included in these expenses are one time expenses associated with third party providers assisting in the realignment of the two companies. We expect to continue to incur business consolidation costs into the foreseeable future, albeit at a reduced amount, as we further consolidate operations and facilities and realign the previously existing businesses. Purchased In Process Research and Development. Purchased in process research and development costs were $1.7 million for 2009 compared to $93.3 million in 2008. In 2008, in association with the AB merger as well as some immaterial acquisitions, the Company acquired and expensed in process research and development. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income. Interest income was $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $24.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to economic conditions leading to lower interest rates available on invested cash balances and lower cash balances invested. 32 Table of Contents Interest income in the future will be affected by changes in short term interest rates and changes in cash balances, which may materially increase or decrease as a result of acquisitions, debt repayment, stock repurchase programs and other financing activities. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $192.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $85.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in interest expense was primarily driven by the interest incurred on the $2,400.0 million of term loans issued in November 2008 in connection with the AB merger. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company made early principal repayments of $350.0 million on term loan B, which resulted in the Company accelerating the write off of $12.5 million of deferred financing costs attributable to the principal repaid. The loss is separately identified in our results from operations as an early extinguishment of debt. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income, net, was $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $5.7 million for the same period of 2008. Included in 2009 was $20.3 million of income related to our interest in the joint venture. The gain was offset by $10.9 million in foreign currency losses and other miscellaneous items. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes as a percentage of pre tax income from continuing operations was 25.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared with 96.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The effective tax rate for 2009 is significantly lower than 2008 and is primarily attributable to the 2009 release of a valuation allowance of $19.8 million, and in 2008, the recognition of $60.6 million in United States income tax in connection with the repatriation of non United States retained earnings to help fund the AB acquisition and $93.3 million of acquired purchased in process research and development costs which were expensed for financial reporting purposes but were not deductible for tax purposes. Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (in millions) 2008 2007 $ Increase % Increase Molecular Biology Systems revenues $ 736.2 $ 583.6 $ 152.6 26 % Cell Systems revenues 747.4 652.2 95.2 15 % Genetic Systems revenues 134.9 45.9 89.0 194 % Corporate and other 1.8 1.8 NM Total revenues $ 1,620.3 $ 1,281.7 $ 338.6 26 % Total gross margin $ 940.8 $ 715.9 $ 224.9 31 % Total gross margin % 58 % 56 % Revenues Revenues increased $338.6 million or 26% for 2008 compared to 2007. Of the $338.6 million increase in revenue, revenue from the acquisition of AB accounted for 56% of the total increase or $191.0 million. AB revenue accounted for $98.0 million, $5.3 million, and $85.4 million of the increase in the MBS, CS, and GS divisions, respectively. The remaining $147.6 million of the Companys increase was primarily a result of $71.8 million of increased volume and new product revenue, $40.3 million in favorable foreign currency translation, $30.1 million in increased price and product mix optimization, $6.7 million of freight recovery and $2.8 million of royalty revenue. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $224.9 million or 31% for 2008 compared to 2007. Of the $224.9 million increase in gross profit, gross profit from AB accounts for 56% of the total increase or $126.7 million. The remaining $98.2 million increase was primarily a result of $33.6 million in increased volume and new products, increased price of $30.1 million, and $28.2 million in favorable foreign currency impacts. Drivers of year over year changes in the gross margin are consistent with the drivers of revenue year over year. Gross profit for 2008 included an increase of $4.3 million and $30.8 million of deferred revenue adjustments and acquired inventory fair market value adjustments as a result of a business combination. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, the acquired 33 Table of Contents deferred revenue and inventory is adjusted to fair value. The Company amortizes this fair value adjustment into income in line with the underlying acquired assets and liabilities. Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets was $86.9 million for 2008 compared to $98.7 million for 2007. The decrease in intangible amortization is due to the completion of amortization of certain acquired intangibles at the end of 2007, partially offset by the amortization of the new intangibles acquired in the AB acquisition. Operating Expenses For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 As a As a Percentage Percentage Operating of Operating of (in millions) Expense Revenues Expense Revenues $ Increase % Increase Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative $ 499.3 31 % $ 416.1 32 % $ 83.2 20 % Research and development 142.5 9 % 115.8 9 % 26.7 23 % Business Consolidation Costs 38.6 2 % 5.6 NM 33.0 NM In process research and development 93.3 6 % 93.3 NM Selling, General and Administrative. For 2008, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $83.2 million or 20% compared to 2007. Of the $83.2 million increase, $45.1 million resulted from the acquisition of AB, and $28.9 million resulted from increase salaries and bonuses. The remaining increase of $9.2 million resulted primarily from increased travel expense of $4.0 million, purchased services of $3.6 million, $4.2 million of foreign currency translation impacts, $3.2 million of rent and utilities expenses, and $2.4 million of depreciation. This was partially offset by a decrease in infrastructure costs of $7.8 million. Research and Development. Research and development expenses for 2008 increased $26.7 million or 23% compared to 2007. Of the $26.7 million increase, $17.5 million resulted from the acquisition of AB. The remaining $9.2 million increase resulted primarily from an increase of $7.2 million in salaries and bonus expenses and $3.2 million in increased supplies expense partially offset by $0.9 million of purchased services. Overall, gross research and development expenses increased 23% year over year as a result of our continued efforts to expand new product development projects. Business Consolidation Costs. Business consolidation costs for 2008 were $38.6 million, compared to $5.6 million in 2007, and represent costs associated with our acquisition efforts related to AB and to realign our business and consolidation of certain facilities. Included in these costs are various activities related to the acquisition which were associated with combining the two companies and consolidating redundancies. Also included in these expenses are one time expenses associated with third party providers assisting in the realignment of the two companies. Purchased In Process Research and Development. Purchased in process research and development costs were $93.3 million in 2008 compared to none in 2007. These costs were primarily attributable to the AB merger as well as some immaterial acquisitions in which the Company acquired and expensed in process research and development expenses. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income. Interest income was $24.6 million in 2008 compared to $28.0 million in 2007. The $3.4 million decrease resulted primarily from a decrease in the average yield of our investments in 2008 along with the lower balance in cash and cash equivalents in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the purchase price paid for the AB acquisition. 34 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense was $85.1 million for 2008 compared to $67.4 million for 2007. The primary reason for the increase in interest expense was interest incurred on the $2,400.0 million of term loans issued in November 2008 in conjunction with acquisition of AB. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income, net, was $5.7 million for 2008 compared to $0.3 million for 2007. The primary reason for the $5.4 million increase in other income was foreign currency net gains of $4.0 million and joint venture income of $1.6 million related to our interest in the joint venture. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes as a percentage of our pre tax income was 96.1% for 2008 compared with 23.7% of our pre tax income for 2007. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to United States income tax recognized in connection with the repatriation of non United States retained earnings to help fund the AB acquisition and acquired purchased in process research and development costs which were expensed for financial reporting purposes but were not deductible for tax purposes. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds will depend on many factors, including future business acquisitions, future stock or debt repayment or repurchases, scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of those programs, our ability to establish collaborative and licensing arrangements, the cost involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and competing technological and market developments. In light of the current market conditions surrounding the credit market, the risk of the inability to obtain credit in the market is a potential risk. We believe that our annual positive cash flow generation and secured financing arrangements allow the company to mitigate this risk and ensures the company has the necessary working capital requirements to fund continued operations. We intend to continue our strategic investment activities in new product development, in licensing technologies and acquisitions that support our platforms. In the event additional funding needs arise, we may obtain cash through new debt or stock issuance, or a combination of sources. In February 2010, the Company issued $1,500.0 million of unsecured bonds in which the proceeds were used to pay down the existing term loans. The Company believes based on its risk profile, with strong cash generation and the history of paying down debt in a timely manner, it will have the ability to raise funding in the future through public and private markets. However, the Company does not anticipate the need for additional financing and expects to fund future operation through the generation of cash from operations. In January of 2010, the Company sold its 50% investment stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technology Instruments joint venture for approximately $280.0 million in net cash proceeds after taxes, which was used to further pay down the term loans. As a result of the payment on the existing term loans, the Company expects to accelerate the recognition of debt issuance cost expense associated with the term loans. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $56.4 million of unamortized debt issuance costs related to these term loans. The Company does not believe the bond issuance or the sale of the joint venture will materially alter its future cash flows. The Company has, and expects to be able to continue to generate positive cash flow from operations to fund both short term and long term cash needs. Should changes in the Companys cash needs occur, the Company could seek additional financing and believes such financing would be obtained at reasonable rates. Operating Activities. Operating activities provided net cash of $714.5 million during 2009 primarily from net income of $144.6 million plus net non cash charges of $656.2 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided a net decrease of $86.3 million in cash during the period. Within the non cash charges in operating activities, the primary drivers were amortization of intangible assets of $296.0 million, depreciation charges of $115.7 million, acquired inventory fair market value adjustments of $62.7 million, share based compensation of $60.1 million, and non cash interest expense of $42.9 million resulting from the retrospective adoption of a bifurcation requirement on our convertible debt as prescribed by ASC Topic 470 20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options. The primary drivers of the cash decrease from changes in operating assets and liabilities were a decrease in income taxes payable of $122.8 million, an increase in trade accounts receivable of $10.4 million, and an increase in other assets of $6.1 million, which were offset by an increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $38.3 million, an increase in accounts payable of $6.5 million, and decreases in inventories of $11.8 million. The Company continued to generate positive cash flows from operations due to the margin earned on sales and the continued revenue growth throughout 2009. 35 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $596.6 million and short term investments of $10.8 million. Our working capital was $410.4 million as of December 31, 2009 including restricted cash of $40.7 million. Our funds are currently primary invested in marketable securities, money market funds, and bank deposits with maturities of less than three months. A majority of the Companys cash and cash equivalents are held in the United States. Repatriation of funds outside of the United States are subject to local laws and customs. As of December 31, 2009, foreign subsidiaries in China, Japan, and India had available bank lines of credit denominated in local currency to meet short term working capital requirements. The United States dollar equivalent of these facilities totaled $13.4 million, none of which was outstanding at December 31, 2009. Our working capital factors, such as inventory turnover and days sales outstanding, are seasonal and, on an interim basis during the year, may require an influx of short term working capital. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash provided by operations and interest income earned thereon and cash available from bank loans and lines of credit will satisfy our working capital requirements debt obligations and capital expenditure for the foreseeable future. The Company has undertaken restructuring activities in connection with the merger of Applied Biosystems, which primarily include one time termination costs, such as severance costs related to elimination of duplicative positions and change in control agreements to mostly sales, finance, IT, research and development, and customer services. The restructuring plan also includes charges associated with the closure of certain leased facilities and one time relocation costs for the employees whose employment positions have been moved to another location. As a result of the plan, the Company expects to achieve operating efficiencies in future periods related to salary and overhead costs specifically related to its selling, general and administrative and research and development costs. At December 31, 2009, the Company had restructuring accruals of $26.5 million pursuant to this plan, and payments are expected to be fully paid in 2010, excluding payments related to the unfavorable lease contracts as a result of the restructuring plan which will run through 2011. Total restructuring expenditures are estimated to be approximately $147.9 million, of which $119.0 million were incurred and recorded in the financial statements and $92.9 million were paid since the inception of the plan. The Company expects the restructuring activities to result in long term cost savings in cost of goods sold as well as in selling, general and administrative costs related to the efficiencies in procurement and manufacturing as well as the reduction of redundant and excess overhead. The Company expects long term cost savings in excess of the costs to complete the plan. The Companys pension plans and post retirement benefit plans are funded in accordance with local statutory requirements or by voluntary contributions. The funding requirement is based on the funded status, which is measured by using various actuarial assumptions, such as interest rate, rate of compensation increase, or expected return on plan assets. The Companys qualified pension plans are adequately funded at December 31, 2009. Future contribution may change when new information is available or local statutory requirement are changed. Based on the actuarial estimates at December 31, 2009, the Company expects to contribute $23.5 million to non qualified pension plans during 2010, which has already been funded in our rabbi trust to satisfy a significant portion of these contribution requirements. Investing Activities. Net cash used by investing activities during 2009 was $258.0 million. The cash was used for purchases of property, plant, and equipment of $180.6 million, business combinations of $55.0 million, and asset purchases of $31.3 million, partially offset by cash received for a business divestiture of $15.2 million. For 2010, we expect to spend in the range of $150.0 million to $175.0 million on purchases of property, plant and equipment, which includes approximately $30.0 million of integration related capital expenditures. The spending will be driven in part by additional capital equipment, information technology, and integration related capital as a result of merger with Applied Biosystems. During 2008, we completed the acquisition of Applied Biosystems for a total purchase price of $4,564.4 million, of which $2,738.9 million was paid in cash. The results of operations were included from the date of acquisition. In September 2009, the Company announced a signed definitive agreement to sell its 50% ownership stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture and all assets related to the Companys mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation for $450.0 million in cash, subject to a conventional working capital adjustment. Included in the sale of the mass spectrometry business is the ownership stake in the joint venture as well as selected assets and liabilities directly attributable to the mass spectrometry 36 Table of Contents business. The Company approximates that it will receive $280.0 million of net cash proceeds after taxes upon completion of the transaction and the Company intends to use such proceeds to pay down debt. For information on our business combination accounting, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 14 for the discussion of subsequent events. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company completed several additional stock acquisitions that were not material individually or collectively to the overall consolidated financial statements and the results of operations. The Company completed such acquisitions for the aggregate purchase price of $81.6 million, $88.5 million, and $23.1 million during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, of which $35.9 million, $88.5 million, and $23.1 million were paid in cash during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Pursuant to the purchase agreements for certain prior year and current year acquisitions, we could be required to make additional contingent cash payments based on certain technological milestones, patent milestones and the achievement of future gross sales of the acquired companies. Some of the purchase agreements the Company has entered into do not limit the payments to a maximum amount, nor restrict the payment deadlines. During the years ended 2009, none of the contingent payments were earned or paid for the achievement of future gross sales. During the year ended 2009, one of the contingent payments, totaling $1.7 million, was earned for the achievement of a certain technological milestone. For acquisitions accounted for under SFAS 141, Business Combinations, the Company will account for any such contingent payments as an addition to the purchase price of the acquired company. For acquisitions accounted for under ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, these obligations will be accounted for at fair value at the time of acquisition with subsequent revisions reflected in the Statement of Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, $1.7 million of the contingent payments earned has been added to the purchase price accordingly. Financing Activities. Net cash used by financing activities totaled $242.3 million for 2009. The primary drivers were $425.0 million in principal payments on long term obligations, partially offset by $171.2 million in proceeds from stock issued in employee stock plans. In July 2007, the Board approved a program authorizing management to repurchase up to $500.0 million of common stock over the next three years. Under the 2007 plan, the Company repurchased 1.2 million shares at a total cost of approximately $100.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company did not repurchase shares during the year ended December 31, 2009. The cost of repurchased shares are included in treasury stock and reported as a reduction in stockholders equity. The Credit Agreement In November 2008, the Company entered into a $2,650.0 million credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) consisting of a $250.0 million revolving credit facility, a 5 year term loan A facility of $1,400.0 million, and a 7 year term loan B facility of $1,000.0 million to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid as part of the AB merger. The remainder of the borrowing was used to pay for merger transaction costs, to facilitate normal operations, and to refinance the credit facility outstanding previous to the merger. The Credit Agreement requires the Company to meet certain financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and minimum fixed charge ratio, and includes certain other restrictions, including restrictions limiting acquisitions, indebtedness, stock repurchases, capital expenditures and asset sales. The maximum leverage ratio reduces on a quarterly schedule to 3.00x by December 31, 2010. After December 31, 2010, the Companys leverage ratio cannot exceed 3.00x. The Company will be also be required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.75x. The Credit Agreement allows the Company to make certain investments and share repurchases, subject to restrictions based on leverage. If the Companys leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 3.00x, the Company may spend up to $500.0 million annually on acquisitions and share repurchases in any fiscal year. If the Companys leverage ratio less than 3.00x, there is no limit to investments in acquisitions. However, the Companys maximum share repurchases will be $500.0 million in any fiscal year. 37 Table of Contents Obligations under the Companys Credit Agreement may be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of certain events of default as defined in the Credit Agreement, including failure to pay any principal when due and payable, failure to pay interest within three business days after due, failure to comply with any covenant, representation or condition of any loan document or swap contract, any change of control, cross defaults, and certain other events as set forth in the Credit Agreement, with grace periods in some cases. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by each of the Companys domestic subsidiaries and are collateralized by substantially all of the Companys and its guarantor subsidiaries assets. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants applicable to the Companys and its subsidiaries, subject to materiality and other qualifications and exceptions. Loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest based on the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) or, if the Company so elects, on Bank of Americas prime lending rate (the Base Rate). For the revolving credit facility and the term loan A, interest is computed based on the Companys leverage ratio as shown below: Revolving Credit Pricing Level Total Leverage Ratio LIBOR Rate Base Rate Commitment Fee 1 3.0:1 LIBOR + 2.50% Base Rate + 1.50% 0.500% 2 3.0:1 but 2.5:1 LIBOR + 2.25% Base Rate + 1.25% 0.375% 3 2.5:1 but 2.0:1 LIBOR + 2.00% Base Rate + 1.00% 0.375% 4 2.0:1 LIBOR + 1.50% Base Rate + 0.50% 0.250% Term loan B bears interest at LIBOR plus 3.00% subject to a minimum LIBOR rate of 3.00% for the first three years after the closing date, or, if the Company so elects, at Base Rate plus 2.00%. The Company entered into interest rate swaps with the notional amount of $1,000,0 million to to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates and to comply with Credit Agreement requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the interest on the revolving credit facility and the term loan A was LIBOR plus 2.5% and the term loan B was at the Base Rate plus 2.0%, which resulted in aggregate cash interest payments of $95.3 million, net of hedging transactions. The Company must repay 2.5% in each quarter of 2010 and 2011, 3.75% in each quarter of 2012 and 15% in each quarter of 2012 with the final payment of all amounts outstanding under the term loan A facility, plus accrued interest, due on November 21, 2012. The Company must repay the remaining principal amount of the term loan B due on November 21, 2015. The revolving credit facility will terminate and all amounts outstanding hereunder, plus accrued interest, will be due on November 21, 2013. At December 31, 2009, The Company has issued $14.3 million in letters of credit through the revolving credit facility. The Company can prepay the term loans without penalty. The Company repaid principal of $70.0 million and $355.0 million for term loan A and term loan B, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009, of which $350.0 million for term loan B was for the early extinguishment of debt, which resulted in a write off of $12.5 million of unamortized deferred financing costs. Costs incurred to issue the debt under the credit facility totaled $43.8 million for term loan A, $41.3 million for term loan B, and $7.8 million for the revolving credit facility. The Company amortized debt issuance costs of $10.5 million, $4.0 million, and $1.6 million for term loan A, term loan B, and the revolving credit facility, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the unamortized balances of the issuance costs were $32.4 million, $24.0 million, and $6.0 million for term loan A, term loan B, and the revolving credit facility, respectively. The Companys Credit Agreement requires the loans to be prepaid with a portion of the net cash proceeds of non ordinary course sales or other dispositions of property and assets and casualty proceeds, condemnation awards and certain other extraordinary receipts, subject to exceptions. The portion of such net cash proceeds to be applied to prepayments of loans will be determined based on our leverage ratio, with 100% to be applied if the leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 3.00x; 50% if the leverage ratio is less than 3.00x and greater than or equal to 2.50x; and 0% if the leverage ratio is less than 2.50x. Loans under the Credit Agreement will also be required to be prepaid with 100% of the net cash proceeds from the issuance or incurrence of new debt (other than certain debt permitted by the credit agreement). These mandatory prepayments will be applied to the repayment of the term facilities as the Company directs. At December 31, 2009, the Company is in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 38 Table of Contents In February 2010, the Company issued $1,500.0 million in unsecured bonds in which the proceeds were used to pay down the term loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Additionally, the Company sold its 50% investment stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technology Instruments joint venture for approximately $280.0 million in net cash proceeds after taxes, which was used to further pay down the term loans. The Company expects to use the combination of the proceeds from the bond offering and the joint venture sale to fully pay down the term loans. As a result of the early repayment, the Company will de designate and terminate the outstanding interest rate swaps as the underlying loans will no longer exist. The unsecured bonds will be fixed rate long term bonds with three, five and ten year maturity dates. The bond issuance will effectively refinance the outstanding debt, and therefore, the Company does not expect the net results of the transaction to materially impact future results from operation or cash flows. Refer to Note 14 related to subsequent events in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on the transaction. Secured Loan At December 31, 2009, the Company holds $34.8 million in auction rate securities with UBS Investment Bank (UBS). Beginning in February 2008, auctions failed for the Companys holdings because sell orders exceeded buy orders. As a result of the failed auctions, the Company is holding illiquid securities because the funds associated with these failed auctions will not be accessible until the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. In August 2008, UBS announced that it has agreed to a settlement in principle with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other state regulatory agencies represented by North American Securities Administrators Association to restore liquidity to all remaining clients who hold auction rate securities. UBS committed to repurchase auction rate securities from their private clients at par beginning January 1, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, UBS repurchased $0.8 million auction rate securities at par from the Company. The Company intends to have the settlement completed by July 2012. Until UBS fully redeems the Companys auction rate securities, UBS has provided a loan to the Company for the par value of the auction rate securities with the underlying auction rate securities as the collateral. The Company will be charged interest on the loan equal to the interest earned on the auction rate securities during this period. As a result, the Company has access to cash associated with these auction rate securities and does not believe there are liquidity concerns associated with these instruments. For information on auction rate securities, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Convertible Debt At December 31, 2009, the Company has classified the carrying value of $339.6 million on the 2% Convertible Senior Note (2023 Note) in current liabilities according to the respective indenture, which allows our Note holders to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the Notes at par plus any accrued and unpaid interest at the earliest on August 1, 2010. In the event that the holders do not exercise such rights, the remaining balance of the Note will be reclassified back to long term debt. The Company anticipates making this payment with the use of cash on hand and cash generation from operating activities. On June 20, 2005, the Company sold 31/4% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (the 31/4% Notes) to certain qualified institutional investors at par value. Including the exercise of the over allotment option, the total size of the offering was $350.0 million. After expenses, net proceeds to the Company were $343.0 million. Interest is payable on the 31/4% Notes semi annually in arrears beginning December 15, 2005. In addition to the coupon interest of 3.25%, additional interest of 0.225% of the market value of the 31/4% Notes may be required to be paid per six month period beginning June 15, 2011, if the market value of the 31/4% Notes during a specified period is 120% or more of the 31/4% Notes principal value. The 31/4% Notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Companys option on or after June 15, 2011, at 100% of the principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, the holders of the 31/4% Notes may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of the 31/4% Notes for 100% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, on June 15, 2011, 2015 and 2020 or upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes. Prepayment of amounts due under the 31/4% Notes will be accelerated in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency and may be accelerated by the trustee or holders of 25% of the 31/4% Notes principal value upon default of payment of principal or interest when due for over thirty days, the Companys default on its conversion or repurchase obligations, failure of the Company to comply with any of its 39 Table of Contents other agreements in the 31/4% Notes or indenture, or upon cross default by the Company or a significant subsidiary for failure to make a payment at maturity or the acceleration of other debt of the Company or a significant subsidiary, in either case exceeding $50.0 million. The terms of the 31/4% Notes require the Company to settle the par value of the 31/4% Notes in cash and deliver shares only for the excess, if any, of the conversion value (based on a conversion price of $49.13) over the par value. In February 2004 and August 2003, the Company issued $450.0 million principal amount of 11/2% Convertible Senior Notes (the Old 11/2% Notes) due February 15, 2024 and $350.0 million principal amount of 2% Convertible Senior Notes (the Old 2% Notes) due August 1, 2023 to certain qualified institutional buyers, respectively. After expenses, the Company received net proceeds of $440.1 million and $340.7 million for the Old 11/2% Notes and Old 2% Notes, respectively. Interest on the Old Notes was payable semi annually on February 15th and 1st and August 15th and 1st, for the Old 11/2% Notes and the Old 2% Notes, respectively. In addition to the coupon interest of 11/2% and 2%, additional interest of 0.35% of the market value of the Old Notes may have been required to be paid beginning February 15, 2012 and August 1, 2010, if the market value of the Old Notes during specified testing periods was 120% or more of the principle value, for the Old 11/2% Notes and the Old 2% Notes, respectively. This contingent interest feature was an embedded derivative with a de minimis value, to which no value had been assigned at issuance of either of the Old Notes or as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. The Old Notes were issued at 100% of principal value, and were convertible shares of common stock at the option of the holder, subject to certain conditions described below, at a price of $51.02 and $34.12 per share for the Old 11/2% Notes and Old 2% Notes, respectively. The Old Notes were to be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Companys option on or after February 15, 2012 (for the Old 11/2% Notes) and August 1, 2010 (for the Old 2% Notes) at 100% of the principal amount. In addition, the holders of the Old Notes may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of the Old Notes for 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, on three separate dates per their issuance agreement. The Old Notes also contained restricted convertibility features that did not affect the conversion price of the notes but, instead, placed restrictions on the holders ability to convert their notes into shares of the Companys common stock (conversion shares). Holders were able to convert their Old Notes into shares of the Companys common stock prior to stated maturity. During December 2004, the Company offered up to $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the New 2% Notes) in a non cash exchange for any and all outstanding Old 2% Notes, that were validly tendered on that date. Approximately 99% or $347.9 million of the Old 2% Notes have been exchanged by their holders for New 2% Notes as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, during December 2004, the Company offered up to $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 11/2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 (the New 11/2% Notes) in a non cash exchange for any and all outstanding Old 11/2% Notes, that were validly tendered on that date. Approximately 99% or $446.5 million of the Old 11/2% Notes have been exchanged by their holders for New 11/2% Notes as of December 31, 2009. The New 2% Notes and New 11/2% Notes (collectively the New Notes) carry the same rights and attributes as the Old 2% Notes and Old 11/2% Notes (collectively the Old Notes) except for the following: the terms of the New Notes require the Company to settle the par value of such notes in cash and deliver shares only for the excess, if any, of the notes conversion value (based on conversion prices of $34.12 and $51.02 for the New 2% Notes and New 11/2% Notes, respectively) over their par values. As such, ASC Topic 470 20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options and ASC Topic 200, Earning Per Share required the Company to use the treasury stock equivalent method to calculate diluted earnings per share, as if the New Notes were outstanding since date of issuance, the date the Old Notes were issued. Costs incurred to issue the convertible notes totaled $7.6 million for the 31/4% Notes, $9.3 million for the Old 11/2% Notes, and $9.3 million for the Old 2% Notes. Finance costs (excluding legal and accounting fees) incurred to conduct the exchange of the Old Notes totaled $1.8 million ($0.8 million related to the Old 2% Notes and $1.0 million related to the Old 11/2% Notes). These costs have been deferred and included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized over the terms of the respective debt using the effective interest method. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the unamortized balances of the issuance costs were $4.6 million and $7.8 million, respectively. 40 Table of Contents In the event of a change of control of the Company, the holders of the 31/4% Notes, Old Notes and New Notes each have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus all accrued and unpaid interest. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Payments Due by Period(1) Less than Years Years More than 5 (in thousands) Total 1 Year 1 3 3 5 Years All Other(2) Convertible notes and other long term debt $ 1,220,551 $ 372,208 $ 848,343 $ $ $ Term loan A and term loan B(3) 2,298,875 214,228 484,310 924,106 676,231 Capital lease obligations 9,412 2,317 5,085 1,879 131 Operating lease obligations 262,668 45,945 64,176 46,941 105,606 Licensing and purchase obligations 89,013 78,609 5,167 3,378 1,859 Uncertain tax liability and interest(2) 114,222 16,162 98,060 Other obligations 8,629 3,113 2,953 1,731 832 Total $ 4,003,370 $ 732,582 $ 1,410,034 $ 978,035 $ 784,659 $ 98,060 (1) Pursuant to certain acquisitions, we could be required to make additional contingent cash payments based on percentages of future gross sales for products of acquired company, or technical milestones without the restriction of the payment deadline. (2) As of December 31, 2009, the Companys unrecognized tax benefits were $114.2 million. We were unable to reasonably estimate the timing of uncertain tax liabilities and interest payments in individual periods beyond twelve months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (3) Term loan A and term loan B have variable interest rates. The weighted average interest rates of term loan A and term loan B have been used to calculate future estimated interest payments related to these items. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. In February 2010, the Company issued $1,500.0 million in unsecured bonds and the proceeds were used to pay down the existing term loans. See Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the discussion of subsequent events. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue Recognition. We derive our revenue from the sale of our products, services and technology. We recognize revenue from product sales upon transfer of title of the product or performance of services. Transfer of title generally occurs upon shipment to the customer. We generally ship to our customers FOB shipping point. Concurrently, we record provisions for warranty, returns, and installation based on historical experience and anticipated product performance. Revenue is not recognized at the time of shipment of products in situations where risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer at a point other than shipment due to the shipping terms, the existence of an acceptance clause, the achievement of milestones, or certain return or cancellation privileges. Revenue is recognized once customer acceptance occurs or the acceptance provisions lapse. Service revenue is recognized over the period services are performed. If our shipping policies or acceptance clause were to change, materially different reported results could occur. In cases where customers order and pay for products and request that we store a portion of their order for them at our cost, we record any material up front payments as deferred revenue in current or long term liabilities, depending on the length of the customer prepayment, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognize revenue upon shipment of the product to the customer. Deferred revenue, which includes customer prepayments and unearned service revenue, totaled $178.3 million at December 31, 2009. 41 Table of Contents We also enter into arrangements whereby revenues are derived from multiple deliverables. In these arrangements, we record revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. Specifically, we record revenue as the separate elements are delivered to the customer if the delivered item is determined to represent a separate earnings process, there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item, and delivery or performance of the undelivered item is probable and substantially in our control. For instruments where installation is determined to be a separate earnings process, the portion of the sales price allocable to the fair value of the installation is deferred and recognized when installation is complete. We determine the fair value of the installation process based on technician labor billing rates, the expected number of hours to install the instrument based on historical experience, and amounts charged by third parties. We continually monitor the level of effort required for the installation of our instruments to ensure that appropriate fair values have been determined. Revenues from multiple element arrangements involving license fees, up front payments and milestone payments, which are received and or billable in connection with other rights and services that represent our continuing obligations, are deferred until all of the multiple elements have been delivered or until objective and verifiable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered elements has been established. We determine the fair value of each element in multiple element arrangements based on the prices charged when the similar elements are sold separately to third parties. If objective and verifiable evidence of fair value of all undelivered elements exists but objective and verifiable evidence of fair value does not exist for one or more delivered elements, then revenue is recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, the revenues from delivered elements are not recognized until the fair value of the undelivered element or elements has been determined. Contract interpretation is normally required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and if so, how the price should be allocated among the deliverable elements, when to begin to recognize revenue for each element, and the period over which revenue should be recognized. We recognize royalty revenue (including upfront licensing fees) when the amounts are earned and determinable during the applicable period based on historical activity, and make revisions for actual royalties received in the following quarter. Materially different reported results would be likely if any of the estimated royalty revenue were significantly different from actual royalties received, however, historically, these revisions have not been material to our consolidated financial statements. For those arrangements where royalties cannot be reasonably estimated, we recognize revenue on the receipt of cash or royalty statements from our licensees. Since we are not able to forecast product sales by licensees, royalty payments that are based on product sales by the licensees are not determinable until the licensee has completed their computation of the royalties due and or remitted their cash payment to us. In addition, we recognize up front nonrefundable license fees when due under contractual agreement, unless we have specific continuing performance obligations requiring deferral of all or a portion of these fees. If it cannot be concluded that a licensee fee is fixed or determinable at the outset of an arrangement, revenue is recognized as payments from third parties become due. Should information on licensee product sales become available so as to enable us to recognize royalty revenue on an accrual basis, materially different revenues and results of operations could occur. Royalty revenue totaled $122.4 million, $51.0 million and $39.9 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenue recorded under proportional performance for projects in process is designed to approximate the amount of revenue earned based on percentage of efforts completed within the scope of the contractual arrangement. We undertake a review of these arrangements to determine the percentage of the work that has completed and the appropriate amount of revenue to recognize. Shipping and handling costs are included in costs of sales. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers is recorded as revenue in the period the related product sales revenue is recognized. Use of Estimates. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. In preparing these statements, we are required to use estimates and assumptions. While we believe we have considered all available information, actual results could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates, especially in light of the current economic environment. We believe that, of the 42 Table of Contents significant accounting policies discussed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, the following accounting policies require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments: Allowance for doubtful accounts. We provide a reserve against our receivables for estimated losses that may result from our customers inability to pay. We determine the amount of the reserve by analyzing known uncollectible accounts, aged receivables, economic conditions in the customers country or industry, historical losses and our customers credit worthiness. Amounts later determined specifically identified by management to be uncollectible are charged or written off against this reserve. To minimize the likelihood of uncollectibility, customers credit worthiness is reviewed periodically based on external credit reporting services and our experience with the account and adjusted accordingly. Should a customers account become past due, we generally place a hold on the account and discontinue further shipments to that customer, minimizing further risk of loss. Bad debt expense is recorded as necessary to maintain an appropriate level of allowance for doubtful accounts. Additionally, our policy is to fully reserve for all accounts with aged balances greater than one year, with certain exceptions determined necessary by management. The likelihood of a material loss on an uncollectible account would be mainly dependent on deterioration in the financial condition of that customer or in the overall economic conditions in a particular country or environment. Reserves are fully provided for all expected or probable losses of this nature. Gross trade accounts receivables totaled $601.9 million and the allowance for doubtful accounts was $10.8 million at December 31, 2009. Historically, the Companys reserves have been adequate to cover losses. Inventory adjustments. Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market. We review the components of our inventory on a regular basis for excess, obsolete and impaired inventory based on estimated future usage and sales. The Company generally fully reserves for stock levels in excess of one years expectation of usage. For those inventories not as susceptible to obsolescence, the Company provides reserves when the materials become spoiled or dated or specific to the inventory as determined by management. In the event of a lower cost or market issue arises, the Company will reserve for the value of the inventory in excess of current replacement cost. The likelihood of any material inventory write down is dependent on customer demand, competitive conditions or new product introductions by us or our competitors that vary from our current expectations. Gross inventory totaled $459.5 million and the allowance for excess and obsolete and price impairment was $106.3 million at December 31, 2009. Historically, the Companys reserve has been adequate to cover its losses. Valuation of goodwill. We are required to perform a review for impairment of goodwill in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. Goodwill is considered to be impaired if we determine that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. In addition to the annual review, an interim review is required if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances include: a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; a significant decline in our stock price or the stock price of comparable companies; a significant decline in our projected revenue or earnings growth or cash flows; an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; unanticipated competition; a loss of key personnel; a more likely than not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of; the testing for recoverability described under ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit. 43 Table of Contents Assessing the impairment of goodwill requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the fair value of the net assets of our reporting units. Additionally, since our reporting units share the majority of our assets, we must make assumptions and estimates in allocating the carrying value as well as the fair value of net assets to each reporting unit. Changes in the assumptions are considered in the analysis, and the Company performs an internal sensitivity analysis to further support the Companys assessment. In accordance with our policy, we completed our most recent annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill as of October 1, 2009 and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. In this analysis, it was determined that no reporting unit of the Company was at risk of impairment based on the current assessment. Our evaluation included management estimates of cash flow projections based on an internal strategic review. Key assumptions from this strategic review included revenue growth, future gross and operating margin growth, and the Companys weighted cost of capital. This revenue and margin growth was based on increased sales of new products as we expect to maintain our investment in research and development, the effect and growth from business acquisitions already consummated and lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue. Additional value creators assumed included increased efficiencies from capital spending. The resulting cash flows were discounted using a weighted average cost of capital of 10 percent. Operating mechanisms to ensure that these growth and efficiency assumptions will ultimately be realized was also considered in our evaluation. Our market capitalization at October 1, 2009 was also compared to the discounted cash flow analysis. We cannot guarantee our future annual or other periodic reviews for impairment of goodwill will not result in an impairment charge. Goodwill totaled $3,783.8 million at December 31, 2009. Valuation of intangible and other long lived assets. We periodically assess the carrying value of intangible and other long lived assets, including capitalized in process research and development, which require us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the future cash flows of these assets. The assets are considered to be impaired if we determine that the carrying value may not be recoverable based upon our assessment of the following events or changes in circumstances: the assets ability to continue to generate income from operations and positive cash flow in future periods; loss of legal ownership or title to the asset; significant changes in our strategic business objectives and utilization of the asset(s); and the impact of significant negative industry or economic trends. If the assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment we recognize is the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Fair value is determined by a combination of third party sources and discontinued cash flows. In addition, we base the useful lives and related amortization or depreciation expense on our estimate of the period that the assets will generate revenues or otherwise be used by the Company. We also periodically review the lives assigned to our intangible assets to ensure that our initial estimates do not exceed any revised estimated periods from which we expect to realize cash flows from the technologies. If a change were to occur in any of the above mentioned factors or estimates, the likelihood of a material change in our reported results would increase. At December 31, 2009, the net book value of identifiable intangible assets that are subject to amortization totaled $2,061.3 million, the net book value of unamortized identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives totaled $10.3 million and the net book value of property, plant and equipment totaled $829.0 million. Valuation of Financial Instruments. We account for our financial instruments at fair value based on ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures and ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. In determining fair value, we consider both the credit risk of our counterparties and our own creditworthiness. ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements for financial instruments. The framework requires for the valuation of investments using a three tiered approach in the valuation of investments. The Company reviews and evaluates the adequacy of the valuation techniques periodically. In the current year, there have not been any changes to the Companys valuation techniques. For details on the 44 Table of Contents assets and liabilities subject to fair value measurements and the related valuation techniques used, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A derivative is an instrument whose value is derived from an underlying instrument or index, such as interest rates, equity securities, currencies, commodities or credit spreads. Derivatives include futures, forwards, swaps, or option contracts, or other financial instruments with similar characteristics. Derivative contracts often involve future commitments to exchange interest payment streams or currencies based on a notional or contractual amount (e.g., interest rate swaps or currency forwards). The accounting for changes in fair value of a derivative instrument depends on the nature of the derivative and whether the derivative qualifies as a hedging instrument in accordance with ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. Those hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting are included as an adjustment to revenue or interest expense, depending upon the component of foreign currency risk the Company is hedging for. Those hedges that do not qualify for hedging accounting are included in non operating income as investment activities. Materially different reported results would be likely if volatility of the currency markets was different, or the Companys revenue forecasts were significantly different from actual. Joint Venture. As part of the acquisition of Applied Biosystems, the Company acquired a joint venture, Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments, in which the Company is a 50% owner. The Company accounts for its investment in the joint venture using the equity method, consistent with the guidance in ASC Topic 323 Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures, based on the circumstances where the Company is unable to unilaterally influence the operating or financial decisions of the investee, shares in the risks and rewards of all related business activities and the joint venture is a stand alone legal entity. The Companys portion of net income as a result of equity in the joint venture was $20.3 million for the period ended December 31, 2009. Our share of earnings or losses from its investment is shown in other income in Consolidated Statements of Operations as a single amount in accordance with ASC Topic 323 Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures. The Company accounts for non operating and stand alone assets and liabilities, which includes goodwill and intangibles associated with the acquisition, of the joint venture in the long term investment line in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Due to the nature of the joint venture, with sales, distribution and service commingled with the Companys operations, operating assets and liabilities specifically related to the joint venture are commingled or inseparable. As a result, for operating assets and liabilities the Company records these assets in the functional operating asset and liability classifications which represent the underlying asset or liability and does not record these assets or liabilities in the long term investment account. The Company accounts for its net investment in the equity of the joint venture under the equity method as one line item under long term investments. In September 2009, the Company announced a signed definitive agreement to sell its 50% ownership stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture and all assets related to the Companys mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation for $450.0 million in cash, subject to a conventional working capital adjustment. Included in the sale of the mass spectrometry business is the ownership stake in the joint venture as well as selected assets and liabilities directly attributable to the mass spectrometry business. The disposition of the joint venture generated approximately $280.0 million in net cash proceeds after taxes and the Company intends to use such proceeds to further pay down debt. The transaction closed on January 29, 2010. For information on our business combination accounting, see Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 14 for the discussion of subsequent events. Allocation of Purchase Price to Acquired Assets and Liabilities in Business Combinations. The cost of an acquired business is assigned to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. We assess fair value, which is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, using a variety of methods including an income approach such as a present value technique or a cost approach such as the estimation of current selling prices and replacement values. Fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, in process research and development (IPRD), and contingent payments, are measured based on the assumptions and estimations with regards to the variable factors such as the amount and timing of future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, appropriate risk adjusted discount rates, nonperformance risk, or other factors that market participants would 45 Table of Contents consider. Upon acquisition, we determine the estimated economic lives of the acquired intangible assets for amortization purposes, which are based on the underlying expected cash flows of such assets or per the Company policy. Adjustments to inventory are based on the fair market value of inventory and amortized into income based on the period in which the underlying inventory is sold. Goodwill is an asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized. Actual results may vary from projected results. Accrued merger and restructuring related costs. To the extent that exact amounts are not determinable, we have estimated amounts for direct costs of our acquisitions, merger related expenses and liabilities related to our business combinations and restructurings in accordance with ASC Topic 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination (EITF 95 3) in conjunction with the merger with Applied Biosystems and other acquisitions consummated prior to January 1, 2009. Our accrued merger and restructuring related costs were $26.5 million at December 31, 2009, the majority of which we expect to pay during 2010. Effective January 1, 2009, in the event the Company incurs the direct and indirect costs related to business combinations and related restructurings, the Company will expense such cost in the periods in which the cost is incurred. Materially different reported results would be likely if any of the estimated costs or expenses were significantly different from actual or if the approach, timing and extent of the restructuring plans adopted by management were different. Litigation reserves. Estimated amounts for claims that are probable and can be reasonably estimated are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The likelihood of a material change in these estimated reserves would be dependent on new claims as they may arise and the favorable or unfavorable outcome of the particular litigation. Both the amount and range of loss on pending litigation is uncertain. As such, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from unfavorable outcomes in litigation. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Such revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations and financial position. Insurance, environmental and divestiture reserves. We maintain self insurance reserves to cover potential property, casualty and workers compensation exposures from current operations and certain former business operations of Applied Biosystems and Dexter Corporation which were acquired in 2008 and 2000, respectively. These reserves are based on loss probabilities and take into account loss history as well as projections based on industry statistics. We also maintain environmental reserves to cover estimated costs for certain environmental exposures assumed in the mergers with Applied Biosystems and Dexter Corporation. The environmental reserves, which are not discounted, are determined by management based upon currently available information. Divestiture reserves are maintained for known claims and warranties assumed in the merger with Dexter Corporation. The product liability and warranty reserves are based on management estimates that consider historical claims. As actual losses and claims become known to us, we may need to make a material change in our estimated reserves, which could also materially impact our results of operations. Our insurance, environmental and divestiture reserves totaled $11.3 million at December 31, 2009. Benefit and pension plans. We sponsor and manage several retirement and health plans for employees and former employees, and nonqualified supplemental benefit plans for select domestic employees. A majority of the Companys current employees do not participate in these plans. Accounting and reporting for the pension plans requires the use of assumptions for discount rates, expected returns on plan assets and rates of compensation increase that are used by our actuaries to determine our liabilities and annual expenses for these plans in addition to the value of the plan assets included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the period ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average discount rates we used to determine the benefit obligation were 6.00%, 5.28%, and 5.60% for domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. The weighted average discount rates we used to determine the net periodic pension cost were 5.75%, 5.10%, and 5.90% for domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. The weighted average long term rates of expected return on plan assets were a range of 5.75% to 8.00%, 5.27%, and 8.00% for domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. Our actuaries also rely on assumptions, such as mortality rates, in preparing their estimates for us. The liabilities for the pension plans and postretirement plans are generally determined 46 Table of Contents using the unit credit method, which is to expense each participants benefit under the plan as they accrue. The discount rate is derived by using the yield curve consists of spot interest rates at 1/2 year increments for each of the next 30 years based on pricing and yield information for high quality corporate bonds to have the present value of the pension or postretirement benefit cash flows discounted by such yield curve matches the pension liabilities as of the measurement date. The rate of expected return on plan assets is an expected weighted average rate of earnings on the funds, which is a blended rate of historical returns and forward looking capital market assumptions over next 20 years adjusted by taking into account the benefits of diversification and rebalancing of the funds. The likelihood of materially different valuations for assets, liabilities or expenses, would depend on interest rates, investment returns, actual non investment experience or actuarial assumptions that are different from our current expectations. For 2010, the Company does not expect to have to fund our qualified pension plans as these plans are sufficiently funded such that contributions for 2010 are not required. Our supplemental plans are unfunded, however, we have assets in a rabbi trust which the assets may be used to pay certain non qualified plan benefits. The postretirement medial benefit plan the Company assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Dexter is fully funded, and thus, no additional funding is expected for 2010. The Company has other postretirement plans which are unfunded, however, they are substantially funded by insurance policies. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company contributed $25.8 million, $10.2 million, and $6.3 million to domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. The aggregate current liabilities relate to our domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans were $23.5 million, $1.3 million, and $5.1 million, respectively at December 31, 2009. Our most significant pension plan is a qualified domestic pension plan, which constituted approximately 82% of our consolidated pension plan assets and approximately 72% of our projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2009. The accrual of future service benefits for participants in the qualified domestic pension plan were frozen as of June 30, 2004. Effective in July 1, 2005, the expected rate of compensation increase was no longer factored into the determination of our net periodic pension expense as the accrual for future service benefits was frozen. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the discount rate for our qualified domestic pension plans for the period ended December 31, 2009 would decrease or increase our net periodic pension expense by approximately $0.3 million. Also, a one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected rate of return on our pension assets for the period ended December 31, 2009 would decrease or increase our net periodic pension expense by approximately $0.3 million. Actual weighted average allocation of our plan assets or valuation of our plan assets and benefit obligations may fluctuate significantly year over year. These fluctuations can be caused by conditions unrelated to our actuarial assumptions, including shifts the global economic environment, market performance and plan funding status. Unexpected unrealized gains or losses in the plan assets or benefit obligation are reflected in other comprehensive income in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized into income over the expected plan lives. Income taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of intercompany arrangements to share revenue and costs. In such arrangements there are uncertainties about the amount and manner of such sharing, which could ultimately result in changes once the arrangements are reviewed by taxing authorities. Although we believe that our approach to determining the amount of such arrangements is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final resolution of these matters will not be materially different than reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provisions or benefits in the period in which such determination is made. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The likelihood of a material change in our expected realization of these assets depends on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. Our ability to generate enough taxable income to utilize our deferred tax assets depends on many factors, among which are our ability to deduct tax loss carryforwards 47 Table of Contents against future taxable income, the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies, reversing deferred tax liabilities, changes in the deductibility of interest paid on our convertible subordinated debt and any significant changes in the tax treatment received on our business combinations. We believe that our deferred tax assets, net of our valuation allowance, should be realizable due to our estimate of future profitability in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, as applicable. Subsequent revisions to estimates of future taxable profits and losses and tax planning strategies could change the amount of the deferred tax asset we would be able to realize in the future, and therefore could increase or decrease the valuation allowance. ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes defines the confidence level that a tax position must meet in order to be recognized in the financial statements. In accordance, we regularly assess uncertain tax positions in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we have operations and account for the related financial statement implications. Unrecognized tax benefits have been reported in accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes two step approach under which the tax effect of a position is recognized only if it is more likely than not to be sustained and the amount of the tax benefit recognized is equal to the largest tax benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement of the tax position. Determining the appropriate level of unrecognized tax benefits requires us to exercise judgment regarding the uncertain application of tax law. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted when information becomes available or when an event occurs indicating a change is appropriate. Future changes in unrecognized tax benefits requirements could have a material impact on our results of operations. Segment Information. In connection with the acquisition of AB and the resulting reorganization, the Company has determined in accordance with ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting to operate as one operating segment. The Company believes our chief operating decision maker (CODM) makes decisions based on the Company as a whole. In addition, the Company shares the common basis of organization, types of products and services which derive revenues, and the economic environments. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to operate as one reporting segment. The Company will disclose the revenues for each of its internal divisions to allow the reader of the financial statements the ability to gain transparency into the operations of the Company. We have restated historical divisional revenue information to conform to the current year presentation. Share Based Compensation. We grant share based awards to eligible employees and directors to purchase shares of our common stock. In addition, we have a qualified employee stock purchase plan in which eligible employees from legacy Invitrogen and legacy AB may elect to withhold up to 15% and 10%, respectively, of their compensation to purchase shares of our common stock on a quarterly basis at a discounted price equal to 85% of the lower of the employees offering price or the closing price of the stock on the date of purchase. The benefits provided by these plans qualify as share based compensation under the provisions of ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, which requires us to recognize compensation expense based on their estimated fair values determined on the date of grant for all share based awards granted, and the cumulative expense is adjusted by modified or cancelled shares subsequently. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized $36.8 million and $23.3 million of compensation expense for employee stock options and purchase rights and restricted stock units, respectively. At December 31, 2009, there was $47.2 million and $51.2 million remaining in unrecognized compensation cost related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, respectively, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years and 2.3 years for employee stock options and restricted stock units, respectively. We estimate the fair value of share based awards on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing method (Black Scholes method). The determination of fair value of share based awards using an option pricing model requires the use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of share based compensation cost recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income. These include estimates of the expected term of share based awards, expected volatility of our stock price, expected dividends and the risk free interest rate. These estimates and assumptions are highly subjective and may result in materially different amounts should circumstances change and we employ different assumptions in our application of ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation in future periods. 48 Table of Contents For share based awards issued during the year ended December 31, 2009, we estimated the expected term by considering various factors including the vesting period of options granted, employees historical exercise and post employment termination behavior and aggregation by homogeneous employee groups. Our estimated volatility was derived using a combination of our historical stock price volatility and the implied volatility of market traded options of our common stock with terms of up to approximately two years. Our decision to use a combination of historical and implied volatility was based upon the availability of actively traded options of our common stock and our assessment that such a combination was more representative of future expected stock price trends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and currently do not anticipate paying such cash dividends. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development and expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, financial covenants, tax laws and other factors as the Board of Directors, in its discretion, deems relevant. The risk free interest rate is based upon United States Treasury securities with remaining terms similar to the expected term of the share based awards. Product Warranties. We accrue warranty costs for product sales at the time of shipment based on historical experience as well as anticipated product performance. Our product warranties extend over a specified period of time ranging up to two years from the date of sale depending on the product subject to warranty. The product warranty accrual covers parts and labor for repairs and replacements covered by our product warranties. We periodically review the adequacy of our warranty reserve, and adjust, if necessary, the warranty percentage and accrual based on actual experience and estimated costs to be incurred. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For information on the recent accounting pronouncements impacting our business, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates, and we selectively use financial instruments to manage these risks. We do not enter into financial instruments for speculation or trading purposes. These financial exposures are monitored and managed by us as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our results. Foreign Currency We translate the financial statements of each foreign subsidiary with a functional currency other than the United States dollar into the United States for consolidation using end of period exchange rates for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates during each reporting period for results of operations. Net gains or losses resulting from the translation of foreign financial statements and the effect of exchange rate changes on intercompany receivables and payables of a long term investment nature are recorded as a separate component of stockholders equity. These adjustments will affect net income only upon sale or liquidation of the underlying investment in foreign subsidiaries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our reported results of operations, which are reported in United States dollars. Based on the foreign currency rate in effect at the time of the translation of our foreign operations into United States dollars, reported results could be different from prior periods even if the same amount and mix of our products were sold at the same local prices during the two periods. This will affect our reported results of operations and also makes the comparison of our business performance in two periods more difficult. For example, our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, were approximately $3,280.3 million using applicable foreign currency exchange rates for that period. However, applying the foreign currency exchange rates in effect during the year ended December 31, 2008 to our revenues generated by foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency differ from the United States dollars for 2009 when including the results of our hedging program would result in approximately $39.0 million more revenue for that period. These changes in currency 49 Table of Contents exchange rates have affected and will continue to affect, our reported results, including our revenues, revenue growth rates, gross margins, income and losses as well as assets and liabilities. Foreign Currency Transactions We have operations through legal entities in Europe, Asia Pacific and the Americas. As a result, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $409.2 million of accounts receivable and $41.0 million of accounts payable, respectively, denominated in a foreign currency. The Company has accounts receivables and payables denominated in both the functional currency of the legal entity as well as receivables and payables denominated in a foreign currency that differs from the functional currency of the legal entity. For receivables and payables denominated in the legal entitys functional currency, the Company does not have financial statement risk, and therefore does not hedge such transactions. For those receivables and payables denominated in a currency that differs from the functional currency of the legal entity, the Company hedges such transactions to prevent financial statement risk. As a result, a hypothetical movement in foreign currency rates would not be expected to have a material financial statement impact on the settlement of these outstanding receivables and payables. Both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these receivables and payables were included in other income and expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net currency exchange gains and (losses) recognized on business transactions, net of hedging transactions, were $(9.0) million, $8.3 million and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and are included in other income and expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These gains and losses arise from the timing of cash collections compared to the hedged transactions, which can vary based on timing of actual customer payments. The Companys intercompany foreign currency receivables and payables are primarily concentrated in the euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and Japanese yen. Historically, we have used foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk on these intercompany foreign currency receivables and payables. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had a notional principal amount of $1,497.9 million and $740.5 million, respectively, in foreign currency forward contracts outstanding to hedge currency risk on specific intercompany and the third party receivables and payables denominated in a currency that differs from the legal entitys functional currency. These foreign currency forward contracts as of December 31, 2009, which settle in January 2010 through May 2010, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific receivables and payables will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the losses or gains from changes in the value of the underlying receivables and payables. The Company does not have any material un hedged foreign currency intercompany receivables or payables at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Refer to Note 1 Financial Instruments in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys hedging programs. The notional principal amounts provide one measure of the transaction volume outstanding as of period end, but do not represent the amount of our exposure to market loss. In many cases, outstanding principal amounts offset assets and liabilities and the Companys exposure is less than the notional amount. The estimates of fair value are based on applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement of these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses on the underlying exposures, will depend on actual market conditions during the remaining life of the instruments. Cash Flow Hedges The ultimate United States dollar value of future foreign currency sales generated by our reporting units is subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys intent is to limit this exposure from changes in currency exchange rates through hedging. When the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign currencies, the decline in the United States dollar value of future foreign currency revenue is offset by gains in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. Conversely, when the dollar weakens, the opposite occurs. The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk on forecasted foreign currency sales which are expected to be settled within next twelve months. The change in fair value prior to their maturity was accounted for as cash flow hedges, and recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets according to ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. To the extent any portion of the forward 50 Table of Contents contracts is determined to not be an effective hedge, the increase or decrease in value prior to the maturity was recorded in other income or expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recognized immaterial net losses related to the ineffective portion of its hedging instruments in other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. No hedging relationships were terminated as a result of ineffective hedging or forecasted transactions no longer probable of occurring. The Company continually monitors the probability of forecasted transactions as part of the hedge effectiveness testing. At December 31, 2009, the Company had a notional principal amount of $689.1 million in foreign currency forward contracts outstanding to hedge foreign currency revenue risk under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is reported in other current assets or other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as appropriate. The Company reclasses deferred gains or losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income into revenue when the underlying foreign currency sales occur and are recognized in consolidated earnings. The Company uses inventory turnover ratio for each international operating unit to align the timing of a hedged item and a hedging instrument to impact the Consolidated Statements of Operations during the same reporting period. At December 31, 2009, the Company expects to reclass $7.5 million of net losses on derivative instruments from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings during the next twelve months. At December 31, 2009, a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency rates against the United States dollar would result in a decrease or an increase of $57.0 million in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives accounted for under cash flow hedges. Actual gains or losses could differ materially from this analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of currency rate movements. Commodity Prices Our exposure to commodity price changes relates to certain manufacturing operations that utilize certain commodities as raw materials. We manage our exposure to changes in those prices primarily through our procurement and sales practices. Interest Rates Our investment portfolio is maintained in accordance with our investment policy which defines allowable investments, specifies credit quality standards and limits the credit exposure of any single issuer. The fair value of our cash equivalents, marketable securities, and derivatives is subject to change as a result of changes in market interest rates and investment risk related to the issuers credit worthiness or our own credit risk. The Company uses credit default swap spread to derive risk adjusted discount rate to measure the fair value of some of our financial instruments. At December 31, 2009, we had $1,028.2 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, short term investments and long term investments, all of which approximated the fair value. Changes in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on the fair value of $648.1 million of our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short term investments at December 31, 2009, as these consisted of highly liquid securities with short term maturities. The Company accounts for $337.4 million of its long term investment in the joint venture under the equity method and $8.0 million of its long term investments in non publicly traded companies under the cost method, thus, changes in market interest rates would not be expected to have an impact on these investments. Gain or losses from the changes in market interest rates in our other long term investment of $34.8 million would not be material. See Note 1 in our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2009, the Companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and variable rate borrowings. At issue date of November 2008, all of term loan A and term loan B was subject to variable interest rates. In January 2009, as required by the Credit Agreement and to mitigate interest rate risk and resulting cash flow variability, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted its variable rate interest payments to fixed rate interest payments for $1,000.0 million of the term loan A principal The interest rate swap agreements are expected to settle in two parts, $300.0 million maturing in January 2012 and $700.0 million maturing in January 2013. Without the swap agreements, a hypothetical increase in the underlying borrowing rate (LIBOR or base rate) of 100 basis points would have changed interest payments on term loan A by 13.3 million and on term loan B by $6.4 million, based on each loans principal balance at December 31, 2009, respectively. However, as a result of these swap agreements, the Company reduced the amount of term loan A principal subject to interest rate risk to only $330.0 million. With the swap agreements in place, an increase in the underlying borrowing 51 Table of Contents rate of 100 basis points would increase interest payments on term loan A by $3.3 million. The changes in fair value prior to their maturity of each interest rate swap agreement are accounted for as cash flow hedges, and recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets according to ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. To the extent any portion of the swap agreements is determined to not be an effective hedge, the increase or decrease in value prior to the maturity was recorded in other income or expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, there was no recognized gain or loss related to the ineffective portion of its hedging instruments in other income or expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. No hedging relationships were terminated as a result of ineffective hedging or forecasted transactions no longer probable of occurring. The Company continuously monitors the probability of forecasted and outstanding transactions as part of the hedge effectiveness testing. Fair Value Measurements ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures requires certain financial and non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value using a three tiered approach. The assets and liabilities which used level 3 or significant unobservable inputs to measure the fair value represent an insignificant portion of total Companys financial positions at December 31, 2009. $19.1 million was transferred out of level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2009, of which $5.4 million was due to the impairment of our holdings in the Reserve Primary Money Market Fund (Fund), $12.9 million was due to aggregate distributions of the Fund, and $0.8 million was the settlements on auction rate securities with UBS. The Company already received all expected distribution from the Fund and a cash loan for the value of the auction rate securities from UBS and therefore does not believe there is any credit risk on these investments. For further discussion on the Companys fair value measurements and valuation methodologies, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company does not have any material off balance sheet arrangements. For further discussion on the Companys commitments and contingencies, refer to Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See discussion under Market Risk in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 52 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. FIVE YEAR SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (in thousands, except per share data) 2009(1) 2008(1,2) 2007(1) 2006(1,3) 2005(1,4) Revenues $ 3,280,344 $ 1,620,323 $ 1,281,747 $ 1,151,175 $ 1,079,137 Gross profit 1,824,725 940,752 715,887 608,331 549,535 Net income from continuing operations 144,594 4,356 106,238 53,188 102,348 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations 1,358 12,911 (266,808 ) 10,561 Net income (loss) 144,594 5,714 119,149 (213,620 ) 112,909 Earnings from continuing operations per common share: Basic $ 0.82 $ 0.05 $ 1.13 $ 0.52 $ 0.99 Diluted $ 0.80 $ 0.04 $ 1.10 $ 0.51 $ 0.92 Earnings (loss) from discontinued operations per common share: Basic $ 0.01 $ 0.14 $ (2.60 ) $ 0.10 Diluted $ 0.01 $ 0.13 $ (2.52 ) $ 0.09 Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.82 $ 0.06 $ 1.27 $ (2.08 ) $ 1.09 Diluted $ 0.80 $ 0.05 $ 1.23 $ (2.01 ) $ 1.01 Current assets $ 1,796,164 $ 1,612,171 $ 1,090,484 $ 740,604 $ 1,079,234 Noncurrent assets 7,319,576 7,286,588 2,225,966 2,168,212 2,231,655 Current liabilities (including convertible debt) 1,385,723 1,007,242 234,413 228,086 468,148 Noncurrent liabilities (including convertible debt) 3,703,349 4,434,979 1,232,406 1,178,988 1,172,930 Total stockholders equity 4,026,668 3,456,538 1,847,125 1,736,146 2,170,084 (1) During 2009, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 the Company completed acquisitions that were not material and their results of operations have been included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from their respective dates of acquisition. See Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) 2008 includes the results of operations of Applied Biosystems, Inc. from November 21, 2008, the date of acquisition, and the one time purchase accounting charges associate with the merger such as in process research and development, which affects the comparability of the Selected Financial Data. (3) In 2006, the FASB issued guidance under ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation in which share based payments are included in the results of operations and impacts the net income as reported. This adoption affects comparability between the Selected Financial Data. See Note 1 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. (4) 2005 includes the results of operations of Dynal Biotech Holding from April 1, 2005, the date of acquisition, which affects the comparability of the Selected Financial Data. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW The Company is a global biotechnology tools company dedicated to helping our customers make scientific discoveries and ultimately improve the quality of life. Our systems, reagents, and services enable researchers to accelerate scientific exploration, driving to discoveries and developments that make life better. Life Technologies customers do their work across the biological spectrum, working to advance genomic medicine, regenerative science, molecular diagnostics, agricultural and environmental research, and 21st century forensics. In 2009, the Company had sales of approximately $3,280.3 million, employed 9,000 people, had a presence in more than 160 countries, and possessed a rapidly growing intellectual property estate of over 3,900 patents and exclusive licenses. The Companys systems and reagents, enable, simplify and improve a broad spectrum of biological research of genes, proteins and cells within academic and life science research and commercial applications. Our scientific know how is making biodiscovery research techniques more effective and efficient to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, government and academic researchers with backgrounds in a wide range of scientific disciplines. The Company offers many different products and services, and is continually developing and or acquiring others. Some of our specific product categories include the following: High throughput gene cloning and expression technology, which allows customers to clone and expression test genes on an industrial scale. Pre cast electrophoresis products, which improve the speed, reliability and convenience of separating nucleic acids and proteins. Antibodies, which allow researchers to capture and label proteins, visualize their location through use of Molecular Probes dyes and discern their role in disease. Magnetic beads, which are used in a variety of settings, such as attachment of molecular labels, nucleic acid purification, and organ and bone marrow tissue type testing. Molecular Probes fluorescence based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. Transfection reagents, which are widely used to transfer genetic elements into living cells enabling the study of protein function and gene regulation. PCR and Real Time PCR systems and reagents, which enable researchers to amplify and detect targeted nucleic acids (DNA and RNA molecules) for a host of applications in molecular biology. Cell culture media and reagents used to preserve and grow mammalian cells, which are used in large scale cGMP bio production facilities to produce large molecule biologic therapies. RNA Interference reagents, which enable scientists to selectively turn off genes in biology systems to gain insight into biological pathways. Capillary electrophoresis and massively parallel SOLiDtm DNA sequencing systems and reagents, which are used to discover sources of genetic and epigenetic variation, to catalog the DNA structure of organisms de novo, to verify the composition of genetic research material, and to apply these genetic analysis discoveries in markets such as forensic human identification. During 2009, we aligned our products and services into the following four divisions: Molecular Biology Systems, Genetic Systems, Cell Systems and Mass Spectrometry. The Mass Spectrometry division was comprised of a 50% interest in a joint venture that the Company acquired as a part of the AB acquisition. The Company sold the Mass Spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation on January 29, 2010. The Company accounted for this investment using the equity method. Our share of earnings or losses, including revenue, is included in other income. The MBS division includes the molecular biology based technologies including basic and real time PCR, RNAi, DNA synthesis, thermo cycler instrumentation, cloning and protein expression profiling and protein analysis. The CS division includes all product lines used in the study of cell function, including cell culture media and sera, stem cells and related tools, cellular imaging products, antibodies, drug discovery services, and cell therapy related products. The GS division includes sequencing systems and reagents, including capillary electrophoresis and the SOLiD system, as well as reagent kits developed specifically for applied markets, such as forensics, food safety and pharmaceutical quality monitoring. Upon completion of the acquisition of AB in 2008, we commenced the process 28 Table of Contents of integrating the businesses and administration of the combined companies. A key part of this process was a reorganization of the business, research and development, and sales and marketing organizations within Life Technologies such that they are focused on optimizing the unique technologies and capabilities of the combined companies to drive new developments and business performance. The principal markets for our products include the life sciences research market and the biopharmaceutical production market. We divide our principal market and customer base into principally three categories: Life science researchers. The life sciences research market consists of laboratories generally associated with universities, medical research centers, government institutions such as the United States National Institutes of Health, or the NIH, and other research institutions as well as biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, energy, agricultural, and chemical companies. Researchers at these institutions are using our products and services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities, such as: searching for drugs or other techniques to combat a wide variety of diseases, such as cancer and viral and bacterial disease; researching diagnostics for disease identification or for improving the efficacy of drugs to targeted patient groups; and assisting in vaccine design, bioproduction, and agriculture. Our products and services provide the research tools needed for genomics studies, proteomics studies, gene splicing, cellular analysis, and other key research applications that are required by these life science researchers. In addition, our research tools are important in the development of diagnostics for disease determination as well as identification of patients for more targeted therapy. Commercial producers of biopharmaceutical and other high valued proteins. We serve industries that apply genetic engineering to the commercial production of useful but otherwise rare or difficult to obtain substances, such as proteins, interferons, interleukins, t PA and monoclonal antibodies. The manufacturers of these materials require larger quantities of the same sera and other cell growth media that we provide in smaller quantities to researchers. Industries involved in the commercial production of genetically engineered products include the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, food processing and agricultural industries. Users who apply our technologies to enable or improve particular activities. We provide tools that apply our technology to enable or improve activities in particular markets, which we refer to as applied markets. The current focus of our products for these markets is in the areas of: forensic analysis, which is used to identify individuals based on their DNA; quality and safety testing, such as testing required to measure food, beverage, or environmental quality, and pharmaceutical manufacturing quality and safety; and biosecurity, which refers to products needed in response to the threat of biological terrorism and other malicious, accidental, and natural biological dangers. The Applied Biosystems branded forensic testing and human identification products and services are innovative and market leading tools that have been widely accepted by investigators and laboratories in connection with criminal investigations, the exoneration of individuals wrongly accused or convicted of crimes, identifying victims of disasters, and paternity testing. Our Strategy Our objective is to provide essential life science technologies for basic research, drug discovery, and development of diagnostic and commercial applications. Our strategies to achieve this objective include: New Product Innovation and Development Developing innovative new products. We place a great emphasis on internally developing new technologies for the life sciences research markets. Additionally, we are looking to leverage the broad range of our technologies to create unique customer application based solutions. A significant portion of our growth and current revenue base has been created by the application of technology to accelerate our customers research process, and to various Standardized testing environments such as human identification. In licensing technologies. We actively and selectively in license new technologies, which we modify to create high value kits, many of which address bottlenecks in the research or drug discovery laboratories. We have a dedicated group of individuals that are focused on in licensing technologies from academic and government institutions, as well as biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. 29 Table of Contents Acquisitions. We actively and selectively seek to acquire and integrate companies with complementary products and technologies, trusted brand names, strong market positions and strong intellectual property positions. We have made numerous acquisitions since becoming a public company in 1999. Divestitures. In September 2009, the Company announced a signed definitive agreement to sell its 50% ownership stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture and all assets related to the Companys mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation for $450.0 million in cash, subject to a conventional working capital adjustment. The transaction closed on January 29, 2010. Included in the sale of the mass spectrometry business is the ownership stake in the joint venture as well as selected assets and liabilities directly attributable to the mass spectrometry business. The Company approximates $280.0 million of net cash proceeds after taxes upon completion of the transaction. The joint venture generated pre tax net income of $20.3 million and $1.6 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The results of operations for the joint venture are presented as a single amount in the other income/(expense) line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Utilize Existing Sales, Distribution and Manufacturing Infrastructure Multi national sales footprint. We have developed a broad sales and distribution network with sales a presence in more than 160 countries. Our sales force is highly trained, with many of our sales people possessing degrees in molecular biology, biochemistry or related fields. We believe our sales force has a proven track record in successfully marketing our products across the globe and we expect to leverage this capacity to increase sales of our existing, newly developed and acquired products. High degree of customer satisfaction. Our sales, marketing, customer service and technical support staff provide our customers exceptional service and have been highly rated in customer satisfaction surveys. We use this strength to attract new customers and maintain existing customers. Rapid product delivery. We have the ability to ship typical consumable orders on a same day or next day basis. We use this ability to provide convenient service to our customers to generate additional sales. Invest in High Growth Markets We will focus our investments and resources in markets that provide high growth opportunities, particularly in four areas: Next Generation DNA Sequencing. Our SOLiD technology system represents the latest innovation in next generation sequencing, a method of sequencing the genome at high throughput and relatively low cost. We will continue to invest in cutting edge technology, customer collaborations, and sales force expertise to remain the leader in this important area of research. We will also continue to invest in future sequencing technologies that will allow for more rapid and lower cost sequencing. Emerging Geographies. We continue to focus and invest in high growth geographic markets such as China and India, with direct sales and marketing personnel, as well as manufacturing and distribution facilities. We will further optimize our presence in these markets by leveraging collaborations with key government and academic institutions and local companies. Regenerative Medicine. We are the premier provider of biological products and services for advancing the field of regenerative medicine. We will continue to invest in supplementing our comprehensive suite of product offerings, including animal origin free reagents for stem cell research, and unique primary and stem cells for drug discovery screening. Applied Markets. We will leverage the growing trend of applying biology based approaches to markets beyond basic life science research. We have a strong presence in these markets and we will continue to invest time and resources to further add to our product portfolio and customer contacts in many applied markets, including, but not limited to, forensics, food and water safety testing, agbio, animal health, and human diagnostics. 30 Table of Contents The Company anticipates that our results of operations may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis and will be difficult to predict. The timing and degree of fluctuation will depend upon several factors, including those discussed under our Risk Factors. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions) 2009 2008 $ Increase % Increase Molecular Biology Systems $ 1,581.6 $ 736.2 $ 845.4 115 % Cell Systems 788.7 747.4 41.3 6 % Genetic Systems 906.5 134.9 771.6 NM Corporate and other 3.5 1.8 1.7 94 % Total revenues $ 3,280.3 $ 1,620.3 $ 1,660.0 102 % Total gross margin $ 1,824.7 $ 940.8 $ 883.9 94 % Total gross margin % 56 % 58 % Revenues The Companys revenues increased by $1,660.0 million or 102% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in revenue is driven primarily by an increase of $1,649.4 million due to the acquisition of AB. The remaining year over year change in revenue was due to increases of $49.1 million in volume and pricing, partially offset by a decrease of $39.0 million in unfavorable currency impacts including hedging. As of January 1, 2009, we aligned our business under four divisions Molecular Biology Systems, Genetic Systems, Cell Systems and Mass Spectrometry. The Mass Spectrometry division is comprised of a 50% interest in a joint venture that the Company acquired as a part of the AB acquisition. The Company accounted for this investment using the equity method of accounting. Our share of earnings or losses related to the joint venture, including revenue and the related expenses, is included in other income. The Molecular Biology Systems (MBS) division includes the molecular biology based technologies including basic and real time PCR, RNAi, DNA synthesis, thermo cycler instrumentation, cloning and protein expression profiling and protein analysis. Revenue in this division increased by $845.4 million or 115% in 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $833.5 million from the acquisition of AB and $29.8 million in increased volume and pricing, partially offset by $17.9 million in unfavorable currency impacts including hedging. The Cell Systems (CS) division includes all product lines used in the study of cell function, including cell culture media and sera, stem cells and related tools, cellular imaging products, antibodies, drug discovery services, and cell therapy related products. Revenue in this division increased $41.3 million or 6% for 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $46.1 million from the acquisition of AB, $13.5 million in increased volume and pricing, and $0.9 million from acquisitions, partially offset by $19.2 million in unfavorable currency impacts including hedging. The Genetic System (GS) division includes sequencing systems and reagents, including capillary electrophoresis and the SOLiD system, as well as reagent kits developed specifically for applied markets, such as forensics, food safety and pharmaceutical quality monitoring. Revenue in this division increased by $771.6 million for 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by the acquisition of AB. Changes in exchange rates of foreign currencies, especially the Japanese yen, the British pound sterling, the euro and the Canadian dollar, can significantly increase or decrease our reported revenue on sales made in these currencies and could result in a material positive or negative impact on our reported results. In addition to currency exchange rates, we expect that future revenues will be affected by, among other things, new product introductions, competitive conditions, customer research budgets, government research funding, the rate of expansion of our customer base, price increases, product discontinuations and acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or product lines. 31 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross profit increased $883.9 million or 94% in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to the acquisition of AB as well as increased pricing on sales as defined in the revenue movement, offset by an increase of $195.7 million in purchased intangible assets amortization. Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets acquired in our business combinations was $282.6 million for 2009 compared to $86.9 million for 2008. The increase was the result of the amortization of intangibles resulting from the acquisition of AB. Gross profit for 2009 included an increase of $18.5 million and $29.9 million of deferred revenue adjustments and acquired inventory fair market value adjustments as a result of the AB acquisition. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, the acquired deferred revenue and inventory is adjusted to fair value. The Company amortizes this fair value adjustment into income in line with the underlying acquired assets and liabilities. Operating Expenses For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 As a As a Percentage Percentage Operating of Operating of $ Increase % Increase (in millions) Expense Revenues Expense Revenues (Decrease) (Decrease) Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative $ 987.1 30 % $ 499.3 31 % $ 487.8 98 % Research and development 337.1 10 % 142.5 9 % 194.6 137 % Business consolidation costs 112.9 3 % 38.6 2 % 74.3 192 % In process research and development 1.7 NM 93.3 6 % (91.6 ) (98 )% Selling, General and Administrative. For the year ended December 31, 2009, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $487.8 million or 98% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $448.3 million related to the acquisition of AB and an increase of $56.6 million in compensation, bonuses and benefits, partially offset by a decrease of $14.8 million in infrastructure costs. Research and Development. For the year ended December 31, 2009, research and development expenses increased $194.6 million or 137% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $193.1 million related to the acquisition of AB and an increase of $4.1 million in compensation, bonuses and benefits, partially offset by $2.0 million in favorable currency impacts. Business Consolidation Costs. Business consolidation costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $112.9 million, compared to $38.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and represent costs associated with our integration efforts related to AB and to realign our business and consolidate certain facilities. The increase in costs year over year is due to the ramp up of activities performed in the integration post merger, which was completed in November of 2008. Included in these costs are various activities related to the acquisition which were associated with combining the two companies and consolidating redundancies. Also included in these expenses are one time expenses associated with third party providers assisting in the realignment of the two companies. We expect to continue to incur business consolidation costs into the foreseeable future, albeit at a reduced amount, as we further consolidate operations and facilities and realign the previously existing businesses. Purchased In Process Research and Development. Purchased in process research and development costs were $1.7 million for 2009 compared to $93.3 million in 2008. In 2008, in association with the AB merger as well as some immaterial acquisitions, the Company acquired and expensed in process research and development. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income. Interest income was $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $24.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to economic conditions leading to lower interest rates available on invested cash balances and lower cash balances invested. 32 Table of Contents Interest income in the future will be affected by changes in short term interest rates and changes in cash balances, which may materially increase or decrease as a result of acquisitions, debt repayment, stock repurchase programs and other financing activities. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $192.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $85.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in interest expense was primarily driven by the interest incurred on the $2,400.0 million of term loans issued in November 2008 in connection with the AB merger. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company made early principal repayments of $350.0 million on term loan B, which resulted in the Company accelerating the write off of $12.5 million of deferred financing costs attributable to the principal repaid. The loss is separately identified in our results from operations as an early extinguishment of debt. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income, net, was $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $5.7 million for the same period of 2008. Included in 2009 was $20.3 million of income related to our interest in the joint venture. The gain was offset by $10.9 million in foreign currency losses and other miscellaneous items. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes as a percentage of pre tax income from continuing operations was 25.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared with 96.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The effective tax rate for 2009 is significantly lower than 2008 and is primarily attributable to the 2009 release of a valuation allowance of $19.8 million, and in 2008, the recognition of $60.6 million in United States income tax in connection with the repatriation of non United States retained earnings to help fund the AB acquisition and $93.3 million of acquired purchased in process research and development costs which were expensed for financial reporting purposes but were not deductible for tax purposes. Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (in millions) 2008 2007 $ Increase % Increase Molecular Biology Systems revenues $ 736.2 $ 583.6 $ 152.6 26 % Cell Systems revenues 747.4 652.2 95.2 15 % Genetic Systems revenues 134.9 45.9 89.0 194 % Corporate and other 1.8 1.8 NM Total revenues $ 1,620.3 $ 1,281.7 $ 338.6 26 % Total gross margin $ 940.8 $ 715.9 $ 224.9 31 % Total gross margin % 58 % 56 % Revenues Revenues increased $338.6 million or 26% for 2008 compared to 2007. Of the $338.6 million increase in revenue, revenue from the acquisition of AB accounted for 56% of the total increase or $191.0 million. AB revenue accounted for $98.0 million, $5.3 million, and $85.4 million of the increase in the MBS, CS, and GS divisions, respectively. The remaining $147.6 million of the Companys increase was primarily a result of $71.8 million of increased volume and new product revenue, $40.3 million in favorable foreign currency translation, $30.1 million in increased price and product mix optimization, $6.7 million of freight recovery and $2.8 million of royalty revenue. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $224.9 million or 31% for 2008 compared to 2007. Of the $224.9 million increase in gross profit, gross profit from AB accounts for 56% of the total increase or $126.7 million. The remaining $98.2 million increase was primarily a result of $33.6 million in increased volume and new products, increased price of $30.1 million, and $28.2 million in favorable foreign currency impacts. Drivers of year over year changes in the gross margin are consistent with the drivers of revenue year over year. Gross profit for 2008 included an increase of $4.3 million and $30.8 million of deferred revenue adjustments and acquired inventory fair market value adjustments as a result of a business combination. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, the acquired 33 Table of Contents deferred revenue and inventory is adjusted to fair value. The Company amortizes this fair value adjustment into income in line with the underlying acquired assets and liabilities. Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets was $86.9 million for 2008 compared to $98.7 million for 2007. The decrease in intangible amortization is due to the completion of amortization of certain acquired intangibles at the end of 2007, partially offset by the amortization of the new intangibles acquired in the AB acquisition. Operating Expenses For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 As a As a Percentage Percentage Operating of Operating of (in millions) Expense Revenues Expense Revenues $ Increase % Increase Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative $ 499.3 31 % $ 416.1 32 % $ 83.2 20 % Research and development 142.5 9 % 115.8 9 % 26.7 23 % Business Consolidation Costs 38.6 2 % 5.6 NM 33.0 NM In process research and development 93.3 6 % 93.3 NM Selling, General and Administrative. For 2008, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $83.2 million or 20% compared to 2007. Of the $83.2 million increase, $45.1 million resulted from the acquisition of AB, and $28.9 million resulted from increase salaries and bonuses. The remaining increase of $9.2 million resulted primarily from increased travel expense of $4.0 million, purchased services of $3.6 million, $4.2 million of foreign currency translation impacts, $3.2 million of rent and utilities expenses, and $2.4 million of depreciation. This was partially offset by a decrease in infrastructure costs of $7.8 million. Research and Development. Research and development expenses for 2008 increased $26.7 million or 23% compared to 2007. Of the $26.7 million increase, $17.5 million resulted from the acquisition of AB. The remaining $9.2 million increase resulted primarily from an increase of $7.2 million in salaries and bonus expenses and $3.2 million in increased supplies expense partially offset by $0.9 million of purchased services. Overall, gross research and development expenses increased 23% year over year as a result of our continued efforts to expand new product development projects. Business Consolidation Costs. Business consolidation costs for 2008 were $38.6 million, compared to $5.6 million in 2007, and represent costs associated with our acquisition efforts related to AB and to realign our business and consolidation of certain facilities. Included in these costs are various activities related to the acquisition which were associated with combining the two companies and consolidating redundancies. Also included in these expenses are one time expenses associated with third party providers assisting in the realignment of the two companies. Purchased In Process Research and Development. Purchased in process research and development costs were $93.3 million in 2008 compared to none in 2007. These costs were primarily attributable to the AB merger as well as some immaterial acquisitions in which the Company acquired and expensed in process research and development expenses. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income. Interest income was $24.6 million in 2008 compared to $28.0 million in 2007. The $3.4 million decrease resulted primarily from a decrease in the average yield of our investments in 2008 along with the lower balance in cash and cash equivalents in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the purchase price paid for the AB acquisition. 34 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense was $85.1 million for 2008 compared to $67.4 million for 2007. The primary reason for the increase in interest expense was interest incurred on the $2,400.0 million of term loans issued in November 2008 in conjunction with acquisition of AB. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income, net, was $5.7 million for 2008 compared to $0.3 million for 2007. The primary reason for the $5.4 million increase in other income was foreign currency net gains of $4.0 million and joint venture income of $1.6 million related to our interest in the joint venture. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes as a percentage of our pre tax income was 96.1% for 2008 compared with 23.7% of our pre tax income for 2007. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to United States income tax recognized in connection with the repatriation of non United States retained earnings to help fund the AB acquisition and acquired purchased in process research and development costs which were expensed for financial reporting purposes but were not deductible for tax purposes. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds will depend on many factors, including future business acquisitions, future stock or debt repayment or repurchases, scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of those programs, our ability to establish collaborative and licensing arrangements, the cost involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and competing technological and market developments. In light of the current market conditions surrounding the credit market, the risk of the inability to obtain credit in the market is a potential risk. We believe that our annual positive cash flow generation and secured financing arrangements allow the company to mitigate this risk and ensures the company has the necessary working capital requirements to fund continued operations. We intend to continue our strategic investment activities in new product development, in licensing technologies and acquisitions that support our platforms. In the event additional funding needs arise, we may obtain cash through new debt or stock issuance, or a combination of sources. In February 2010, the Company issued $1,500.0 million of unsecured bonds in which the proceeds were used to pay down the existing term loans. The Company believes based on its risk profile, with strong cash generation and the history of paying down debt in a timely manner, it will have the ability to raise funding in the future through public and private markets. However, the Company does not anticipate the need for additional financing and expects to fund future operation through the generation of cash from operations. In January of 2010, the Company sold its 50% investment stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technology Instruments joint venture for approximately $280.0 million in net cash proceeds after taxes, which was used to further pay down the term loans. As a result of the payment on the existing term loans, the Company expects to accelerate the recognition of debt issuance cost expense associated with the term loans. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $56.4 million of unamortized debt issuance costs related to these term loans. The Company does not believe the bond issuance or the sale of the joint venture will materially alter its future cash flows. The Company has, and expects to be able to continue to generate positive cash flow from operations to fund both short term and long term cash needs. Should changes in the Companys cash needs occur, the Company could seek additional financing and believes such financing would be obtained at reasonable rates. Operating Activities. Operating activities provided net cash of $714.5 million during 2009 primarily from net income of $144.6 million plus net non cash charges of $656.2 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided a net decrease of $86.3 million in cash during the period. Within the non cash charges in operating activities, the primary drivers were amortization of intangible assets of $296.0 million, depreciation charges of $115.7 million, acquired inventory fair market value adjustments of $62.7 million, share based compensation of $60.1 million, and non cash interest expense of $42.9 million resulting from the retrospective adoption of a bifurcation requirement on our convertible debt as prescribed by ASC Topic 470 20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options. The primary drivers of the cash decrease from changes in operating assets and liabilities were a decrease in income taxes payable of $122.8 million, an increase in trade accounts receivable of $10.4 million, and an increase in other assets of $6.1 million, which were offset by an increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $38.3 million, an increase in accounts payable of $6.5 million, and decreases in inventories of $11.8 million. The Company continued to generate positive cash flows from operations due to the margin earned on sales and the continued revenue growth throughout 2009. 35 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $596.6 million and short term investments of $10.8 million. Our working capital was $410.4 million as of December 31, 2009 including restricted cash of $40.7 million. Our funds are currently primary invested in marketable securities, money market funds, and bank deposits with maturities of less than three months. A majority of the Companys cash and cash equivalents are held in the United States. Repatriation of funds outside of the United States are subject to local laws and customs. As of December 31, 2009, foreign subsidiaries in China, Japan, and India had available bank lines of credit denominated in local currency to meet short term working capital requirements. The United States dollar equivalent of these facilities totaled $13.4 million, none of which was outstanding at December 31, 2009. Our working capital factors, such as inventory turnover and days sales outstanding, are seasonal and, on an interim basis during the year, may require an influx of short term working capital. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash provided by operations and interest income earned thereon and cash available from bank loans and lines of credit will satisfy our working capital requirements debt obligations and capital expenditure for the foreseeable future. The Company has undertaken restructuring activities in connection with the merger of Applied Biosystems, which primarily include one time termination costs, such as severance costs related to elimination of duplicative positions and change in control agreements to mostly sales, finance, IT, research and development, and customer services. The restructuring plan also includes charges associated with the closure of certain leased facilities and one time relocation costs for the employees whose employment positions have been moved to another location. As a result of the plan, the Company expects to achieve operating efficiencies in future periods related to salary and overhead costs specifically related to its selling, general and administrative and research and development costs. At December 31, 2009, the Company had restructuring accruals of $26.5 million pursuant to this plan, and payments are expected to be fully paid in 2010, excluding payments related to the unfavorable lease contracts as a result of the restructuring plan which will run through 2011. Total restructuring expenditures are estimated to be approximately $147.9 million, of which $119.0 million were incurred and recorded in the financial statements and $92.9 million were paid since the inception of the plan. The Company expects the restructuring activities to result in long term cost savings in cost of goods sold as well as in selling, general and administrative costs related to the efficiencies in procurement and manufacturing as well as the reduction of redundant and excess overhead. The Company expects long term cost savings in excess of the costs to complete the plan. The Companys pension plans and post retirement benefit plans are funded in accordance with local statutory requirements or by voluntary contributions. The funding requirement is based on the funded status, which is measured by using various actuarial assumptions, such as interest rate, rate of compensation increase, or expected return on plan assets. The Companys qualified pension plans are adequately funded at December 31, 2009. Future contribution may change when new information is available or local statutory requirement are changed. Based on the actuarial estimates at December 31, 2009, the Company expects to contribute $23.5 million to non qualified pension plans during 2010, which has already been funded in our rabbi trust to satisfy a significant portion of these contribution requirements. Investing Activities. Net cash used by investing activities during 2009 was $258.0 million. The cash was used for purchases of property, plant, and equipment of $180.6 million, business combinations of $55.0 million, and asset purchases of $31.3 million, partially offset by cash received for a business divestiture of $15.2 million. For 2010, we expect to spend in the range of $150.0 million to $175.0 million on purchases of property, plant and equipment, which includes approximately $30.0 million of integration related capital expenditures. The spending will be driven in part by additional capital equipment, information technology, and integration related capital as a result of merger with Applied Biosystems. During 2008, we completed the acquisition of Applied Biosystems for a total purchase price of $4,564.4 million, of which $2,738.9 million was paid in cash. The results of operations were included from the date of acquisition. In September 2009, the Company announced a signed definitive agreement to sell its 50% ownership stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture and all assets related to the Companys mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation for $450.0 million in cash, subject to a conventional working capital adjustment. Included in the sale of the mass spectrometry business is the ownership stake in the joint venture as well as selected assets and liabilities directly attributable to the mass spectrometry 36 Table of Contents business. The Company approximates that it will receive $280.0 million of net cash proceeds after taxes upon completion of the transaction and the Company intends to use such proceeds to pay down debt. For information on our business combination accounting, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 14 for the discussion of subsequent events. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company completed several additional stock acquisitions that were not material individually or collectively to the overall consolidated financial statements and the results of operations. The Company completed such acquisitions for the aggregate purchase price of $81.6 million, $88.5 million, and $23.1 million during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, of which $35.9 million, $88.5 million, and $23.1 million were paid in cash during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Pursuant to the purchase agreements for certain prior year and current year acquisitions, we could be required to make additional contingent cash payments based on certain technological milestones, patent milestones and the achievement of future gross sales of the acquired companies. Some of the purchase agreements the Company has entered into do not limit the payments to a maximum amount, nor restrict the payment deadlines. During the years ended 2009, none of the contingent payments were earned or paid for the achievement of future gross sales. During the year ended 2009, one of the contingent payments, totaling $1.7 million, was earned for the achievement of a certain technological milestone. For acquisitions accounted for under SFAS 141, Business Combinations, the Company will account for any such contingent payments as an addition to the purchase price of the acquired company. For acquisitions accounted for under ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, these obligations will be accounted for at fair value at the time of acquisition with subsequent revisions reflected in the Statement of Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, $1.7 million of the contingent payments earned has been added to the purchase price accordingly. Financing Activities. Net cash used by financing activities totaled $242.3 million for 2009. The primary drivers were $425.0 million in principal payments on long term obligations, partially offset by $171.2 million in proceeds from stock issued in employee stock plans. In July 2007, the Board approved a program authorizing management to repurchase up to $500.0 million of common stock over the next three years. Under the 2007 plan, the Company repurchased 1.2 million shares at a total cost of approximately $100.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company did not repurchase shares during the year ended December 31, 2009. The cost of repurchased shares are included in treasury stock and reported as a reduction in stockholders equity. The Credit Agreement In November 2008, the Company entered into a $2,650.0 million credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) consisting of a $250.0 million revolving credit facility, a 5 year term loan A facility of $1,400.0 million, and a 7 year term loan B facility of $1,000.0 million to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid as part of the AB merger. The remainder of the borrowing was used to pay for merger transaction costs, to facilitate normal operations, and to refinance the credit facility outstanding previous to the merger. The Credit Agreement requires the Company to meet certain financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and minimum fixed charge ratio, and includes certain other restrictions, including restrictions limiting acquisitions, indebtedness, stock repurchases, capital expenditures and asset sales. The maximum leverage ratio reduces on a quarterly schedule to 3.00x by December 31, 2010. After December 31, 2010, the Companys leverage ratio cannot exceed 3.00x. The Company will be also be required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.75x. The Credit Agreement allows the Company to make certain investments and share repurchases, subject to restrictions based on leverage. If the Companys leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 3.00x, the Company may spend up to $500.0 million annually on acquisitions and share repurchases in any fiscal year. If the Companys leverage ratio less than 3.00x, there is no limit to investments in acquisitions. However, the Companys maximum share repurchases will be $500.0 million in any fiscal year. 37 Table of Contents Obligations under the Companys Credit Agreement may be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of certain events of default as defined in the Credit Agreement, including failure to pay any principal when due and payable, failure to pay interest within three business days after due, failure to comply with any covenant, representation or condition of any loan document or swap contract, any change of control, cross defaults, and certain other events as set forth in the Credit Agreement, with grace periods in some cases. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by each of the Companys domestic subsidiaries and are collateralized by substantially all of the Companys and its guarantor subsidiaries assets. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants applicable to the Companys and its subsidiaries, subject to materiality and other qualifications and exceptions. Loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest based on the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) or, if the Company so elects, on Bank of Americas prime lending rate (the Base Rate). For the revolving credit facility and the term loan A, interest is computed based on the Companys leverage ratio as shown below: Revolving Credit Pricing Level Total Leverage Ratio LIBOR Rate Base Rate Commitment Fee 1 3.0:1 LIBOR + 2.50% Base Rate + 1.50% 0.500% 2 3.0:1 but 2.5:1 LIBOR + 2.25% Base Rate + 1.25% 0.375% 3 2.5:1 but 2.0:1 LIBOR + 2.00% Base Rate + 1.00% 0.375% 4 2.0:1 LIBOR + 1.50% Base Rate + 0.50% 0.250% Term loan B bears interest at LIBOR plus 3.00% subject to a minimum LIBOR rate of 3.00% for the first three years after the closing date, or, if the Company so elects, at Base Rate plus 2.00%. The Company entered into interest rate swaps with the notional amount of $1,000,0 million to to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates and to comply with Credit Agreement requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the interest on the revolving credit facility and the term loan A was LIBOR plus 2.5% and the term loan B was at the Base Rate plus 2.0%, which resulted in aggregate cash interest payments of $95.3 million, net of hedging transactions. The Company must repay 2.5% in each quarter of 2010 and 2011, 3.75% in each quarter of 2012 and 15% in each quarter of 2012 with the final payment of all amounts outstanding under the term loan A facility, plus accrued interest, due on November 21, 2012. The Company must repay the remaining principal amount of the term loan B due on November 21, 2015. The revolving credit facility will terminate and all amounts outstanding hereunder, plus accrued interest, will be due on November 21, 2013. At December 31, 2009, The Company has issued $14.3 million in letters of credit through the revolving credit facility. The Company can prepay the term loans without penalty. The Company repaid principal of $70.0 million and $355.0 million for term loan A and term loan B, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009, of which $350.0 million for term loan B was for the early extinguishment of debt, which resulted in a write off of $12.5 million of unamortized deferred financing costs. Costs incurred to issue the debt under the credit facility totaled $43.8 million for term loan A, $41.3 million for term loan B, and $7.8 million for the revolving credit facility. The Company amortized debt issuance costs of $10.5 million, $4.0 million, and $1.6 million for term loan A, term loan B, and the revolving credit facility, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the unamortized balances of the issuance costs were $32.4 million, $24.0 million, and $6.0 million for term loan A, term loan B, and the revolving credit facility, respectively. The Companys Credit Agreement requires the loans to be prepaid with a portion of the net cash proceeds of non ordinary course sales or other dispositions of property and assets and casualty proceeds, condemnation awards and certain other extraordinary receipts, subject to exceptions. The portion of such net cash proceeds to be applied to prepayments of loans will be determined based on our leverage ratio, with 100% to be applied if the leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 3.00x; 50% if the leverage ratio is less than 3.00x and greater than or equal to 2.50x; and 0% if the leverage ratio is less than 2.50x. Loans under the Credit Agreement will also be required to be prepaid with 100% of the net cash proceeds from the issuance or incurrence of new debt (other than certain debt permitted by the credit agreement). These mandatory prepayments will be applied to the repayment of the term facilities as the Company directs. At December 31, 2009, the Company is in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 38 Table of Contents In February 2010, the Company issued $1,500.0 million in unsecured bonds in which the proceeds were used to pay down the term loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Additionally, the Company sold its 50% investment stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technology Instruments joint venture for approximately $280.0 million in net cash proceeds after taxes, which was used to further pay down the term loans. The Company expects to use the combination of the proceeds from the bond offering and the joint venture sale to fully pay down the term loans. As a result of the early repayment, the Company will de designate and terminate the outstanding interest rate swaps as the underlying loans will no longer exist. The unsecured bonds will be fixed rate long term bonds with three, five and ten year maturity dates. The bond issuance will effectively refinance the outstanding debt, and therefore, the Company does not expect the net results of the transaction to materially impact future results from operation or cash flows. Refer to Note 14 related to subsequent events in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on the transaction. Secured Loan At December 31, 2009, the Company holds $34.8 million in auction rate securities with UBS Investment Bank (UBS). Beginning in February 2008, auctions failed for the Companys holdings because sell orders exceeded buy orders. As a result of the failed auctions, the Company is holding illiquid securities because the funds associated with these failed auctions will not be accessible until the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. In August 2008, UBS announced that it has agreed to a settlement in principle with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other state regulatory agencies represented by North American Securities Administrators Association to restore liquidity to all remaining clients who hold auction rate securities. UBS committed to repurchase auction rate securities from their private clients at par beginning January 1, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, UBS repurchased $0.8 million auction rate securities at par from the Company. The Company intends to have the settlement completed by July 2012. Until UBS fully redeems the Companys auction rate securities, UBS has provided a loan to the Company for the par value of the auction rate securities with the underlying auction rate securities as the collateral. The Company will be charged interest on the loan equal to the interest earned on the auction rate securities during this period. As a result, the Company has access to cash associated with these auction rate securities and does not believe there are liquidity concerns associated with these instruments. For information on auction rate securities, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Convertible Debt At December 31, 2009, the Company has classified the carrying value of $339.6 million on the 2% Convertible Senior Note (2023 Note) in current liabilities according to the respective indenture, which allows our Note holders to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the Notes at par plus any accrued and unpaid interest at the earliest on August 1, 2010. In the event that the holders do not exercise such rights, the remaining balance of the Note will be reclassified back to long term debt. The Company anticipates making this payment with the use of cash on hand and cash generation from operating activities. On June 20, 2005, the Company sold 31/4% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (the 31/4% Notes) to certain qualified institutional investors at par value. Including the exercise of the over allotment option, the total size of the offering was $350.0 million. After expenses, net proceeds to the Company were $343.0 million. Interest is payable on the 31/4% Notes semi annually in arrears beginning December 15, 2005. In addition to the coupon interest of 3.25%, additional interest of 0.225% of the market value of the 31/4% Notes may be required to be paid per six month period beginning June 15, 2011, if the market value of the 31/4% Notes during a specified period is 120% or more of the 31/4% Notes principal value. The 31/4% Notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Companys option on or after June 15, 2011, at 100% of the principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, the holders of the 31/4% Notes may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of the 31/4% Notes for 100% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, on June 15, 2011, 2015 and 2020 or upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes. Prepayment of amounts due under the 31/4% Notes will be accelerated in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency and may be accelerated by the trustee or holders of 25% of the 31/4% Notes principal value upon default of payment of principal or interest when due for over thirty days, the Companys default on its conversion or repurchase obligations, failure of the Company to comply with any of its 39 Table of Contents other agreements in the 31/4% Notes or indenture, or upon cross default by the Company or a significant subsidiary for failure to make a payment at maturity or the acceleration of other debt of the Company or a significant subsidiary, in either case exceeding $50.0 million. The terms of the 31/4% Notes require the Company to settle the par value of the 31/4% Notes in cash and deliver shares only for the excess, if any, of the conversion value (based on a conversion price of $49.13) over the par value. In February 2004 and August 2003, the Company issued $450.0 million principal amount of 11/2% Convertible Senior Notes (the Old 11/2% Notes) due February 15, 2024 and $350.0 million principal amount of 2% Convertible Senior Notes (the Old 2% Notes) due August 1, 2023 to certain qualified institutional buyers, respectively. After expenses, the Company received net proceeds of $440.1 million and $340.7 million for the Old 11/2% Notes and Old 2% Notes, respectively. Interest on the Old Notes was payable semi annually on February 15th and 1st and August 15th and 1st, for the Old 11/2% Notes and the Old 2% Notes, respectively. In addition to the coupon interest of 11/2% and 2%, additional interest of 0.35% of the market value of the Old Notes may have been required to be paid beginning February 15, 2012 and August 1, 2010, if the market value of the Old Notes during specified testing periods was 120% or more of the principle value, for the Old 11/2% Notes and the Old 2% Notes, respectively. This contingent interest feature was an embedded derivative with a de minimis value, to which no value had been assigned at issuance of either of the Old Notes or as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. The Old Notes were issued at 100% of principal value, and were convertible shares of common stock at the option of the holder, subject to certain conditions described below, at a price of $51.02 and $34.12 per share for the Old 11/2% Notes and Old 2% Notes, respectively. The Old Notes were to be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Companys option on or after February 15, 2012 (for the Old 11/2% Notes) and August 1, 2010 (for the Old 2% Notes) at 100% of the principal amount. In addition, the holders of the Old Notes may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of the Old Notes for 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, on three separate dates per their issuance agreement. The Old Notes also contained restricted convertibility features that did not affect the conversion price of the notes but, instead, placed restrictions on the holders ability to convert their notes into shares of the Companys common stock (conversion shares). Holders were able to convert their Old Notes into shares of the Companys common stock prior to stated maturity. During December 2004, the Company offered up to $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the New 2% Notes) in a non cash exchange for any and all outstanding Old 2% Notes, that were validly tendered on that date. Approximately 99% or $347.9 million of the Old 2% Notes have been exchanged by their holders for New 2% Notes as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, during December 2004, the Company offered up to $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 11/2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 (the New 11/2% Notes) in a non cash exchange for any and all outstanding Old 11/2% Notes, that were validly tendered on that date. Approximately 99% or $446.5 million of the Old 11/2% Notes have been exchanged by their holders for New 11/2% Notes as of December 31, 2009. The New 2% Notes and New 11/2% Notes (collectively the New Notes) carry the same rights and attributes as the Old 2% Notes and Old 11/2% Notes (collectively the Old Notes) except for the following: the terms of the New Notes require the Company to settle the par value of such notes in cash and deliver shares only for the excess, if any, of the notes conversion value (based on conversion prices of $34.12 and $51.02 for the New 2% Notes and New 11/2% Notes, respectively) over their par values. As such, ASC Topic 470 20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options and ASC Topic 200, Earning Per Share required the Company to use the treasury stock equivalent method to calculate diluted earnings per share, as if the New Notes were outstanding since date of issuance, the date the Old Notes were issued. Costs incurred to issue the convertible notes totaled $7.6 million for the 31/4% Notes, $9.3 million for the Old 11/2% Notes, and $9.3 million for the Old 2% Notes. Finance costs (excluding legal and accounting fees) incurred to conduct the exchange of the Old Notes totaled $1.8 million ($0.8 million related to the Old 2% Notes and $1.0 million related to the Old 11/2% Notes). These costs have been deferred and included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized over the terms of the respective debt using the effective interest method. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the unamortized balances of the issuance costs were $4.6 million and $7.8 million, respectively. 40 Table of Contents In the event of a change of control of the Company, the holders of the 31/4% Notes, Old Notes and New Notes each have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus all accrued and unpaid interest. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Payments Due by Period(1) Less than Years Years More than 5 (in thousands) Total 1 Year 1 3 3 5 Years All Other(2) Convertible notes and other long term debt $ 1,220,551 $ 372,208 $ 848,343 $ $ $ Term loan A and term loan B(3) 2,298,875 214,228 484,310 924,106 676,231 Capital lease obligations 9,412 2,317 5,085 1,879 131 Operating lease obligations 262,668 45,945 64,176 46,941 105,606 Licensing and purchase obligations 89,013 78,609 5,167 3,378 1,859 Uncertain tax liability and interest(2) 114,222 16,162 98,060 Other obligations 8,629 3,113 2,953 1,731 832 Total $ 4,003,370 $ 732,582 $ 1,410,034 $ 978,035 $ 784,659 $ 98,060 (1) Pursuant to certain acquisitions, we could be required to make additional contingent cash payments based on percentages of future gross sales for products of acquired company, or technical milestones without the restriction of the payment deadline. (2) As of December 31, 2009, the Companys unrecognized tax benefits were $114.2 million. We were unable to reasonably estimate the timing of uncertain tax liabilities and interest payments in individual periods beyond twelve months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (3) Term loan A and term loan B have variable interest rates. The weighted average interest rates of term loan A and term loan B have been used to calculate future estimated interest payments related to these items. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. In February 2010, the Company issued $1,500.0 million in unsecured bonds and the proceeds were used to pay down the existing term loans. See Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the discussion of subsequent events. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue Recognition. We derive our revenue from the sale of our products, services and technology. We recognize revenue from product sales upon transfer of title of the product or performance of services. Transfer of title generally occurs upon shipment to the customer. We generally ship to our customers FOB shipping point. Concurrently, we record provisions for warranty, returns, and installation based on historical experience and anticipated product performance. Revenue is not recognized at the time of shipment of products in situations where risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer at a point other than shipment due to the shipping terms, the existence of an acceptance clause, the achievement of milestones, or certain return or cancellation privileges. Revenue is recognized once customer acceptance occurs or the acceptance provisions lapse. Service revenue is recognized over the period services are performed. If our shipping policies or acceptance clause were to change, materially different reported results could occur. In cases where customers order and pay for products and request that we store a portion of their order for them at our cost, we record any material up front payments as deferred revenue in current or long term liabilities, depending on the length of the customer prepayment, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognize revenue upon shipment of the product to the customer. Deferred revenue, which includes customer prepayments and unearned service revenue, totaled $178.3 million at December 31, 2009. 41 Table of Contents We also enter into arrangements whereby revenues are derived from multiple deliverables. In these arrangements, we record revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. Specifically, we record revenue as the separate elements are delivered to the customer if the delivered item is determined to represent a separate earnings process, there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item, and delivery or performance of the undelivered item is probable and substantially in our control. For instruments where installation is determined to be a separate earnings process, the portion of the sales price allocable to the fair value of the installation is deferred and recognized when installation is complete. We determine the fair value of the installation process based on technician labor billing rates, the expected number of hours to install the instrument based on historical experience, and amounts charged by third parties. We continually monitor the level of effort required for the installation of our instruments to ensure that appropriate fair values have been determined. Revenues from multiple element arrangements involving license fees, up front payments and milestone payments, which are received and or billable in connection with other rights and services that represent our continuing obligations, are deferred until all of the multiple elements have been delivered or until objective and verifiable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered elements has been established. We determine the fair value of each element in multiple element arrangements based on the prices charged when the similar elements are sold separately to third parties. If objective and verifiable evidence of fair value of all undelivered elements exists but objective and verifiable evidence of fair value does not exist for one or more delivered elements, then revenue is recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, the revenues from delivered elements are not recognized until the fair value of the undelivered element or elements has been determined. Contract interpretation is normally required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and if so, how the price should be allocated among the deliverable elements, when to begin to recognize revenue for each element, and the period over which revenue should be recognized. We recognize royalty revenue (including upfront licensing fees) when the amounts are earned and determinable during the applicable period based on historical activity, and make revisions for actual royalties received in the following quarter. Materially different reported results would be likely if any of the estimated royalty revenue were significantly different from actual royalties received, however, historically, these revisions have not been material to our consolidated financial statements. For those arrangements where royalties cannot be reasonably estimated, we recognize revenue on the receipt of cash or royalty statements from our licensees. Since we are not able to forecast product sales by licensees, royalty payments that are based on product sales by the licensees are not determinable until the licensee has completed their computation of the royalties due and or remitted their cash payment to us. In addition, we recognize up front nonrefundable license fees when due under contractual agreement, unless we have specific continuing performance obligations requiring deferral of all or a portion of these fees. If it cannot be concluded that a licensee fee is fixed or determinable at the outset of an arrangement, revenue is recognized as payments from third parties become due. Should information on licensee product sales become available so as to enable us to recognize royalty revenue on an accrual basis, materially different revenues and results of operations could occur. Royalty revenue totaled $122.4 million, $51.0 million and $39.9 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenue recorded under proportional performance for projects in process is designed to approximate the amount of revenue earned based on percentage of efforts completed within the scope of the contractual arrangement. We undertake a review of these arrangements to determine the percentage of the work that has completed and the appropriate amount of revenue to recognize. Shipping and handling costs are included in costs of sales. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers is recorded as revenue in the period the related product sales revenue is recognized. Use of Estimates. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. In preparing these statements, we are required to use estimates and assumptions. While we believe we have considered all available information, actual results could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates, especially in light of the current economic environment. We believe that, of the 42 Table of Contents significant accounting policies discussed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, the following accounting policies require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments: Allowance for doubtful accounts. We provide a reserve against our receivables for estimated losses that may result from our customers inability to pay. We determine the amount of the reserve by analyzing known uncollectible accounts, aged receivables, economic conditions in the customers country or industry, historical losses and our customers credit worthiness. Amounts later determined specifically identified by management to be uncollectible are charged or written off against this reserve. To minimize the likelihood of uncollectibility, customers credit worthiness is reviewed periodically based on external credit reporting services and our experience with the account and adjusted accordingly. Should a customers account become past due, we generally place a hold on the account and discontinue further shipments to that customer, minimizing further risk of loss. Bad debt expense is recorded as necessary to maintain an appropriate level of allowance for doubtful accounts. Additionally, our policy is to fully reserve for all accounts with aged balances greater than one year, with certain exceptions determined necessary by management. The likelihood of a material loss on an uncollectible account would be mainly dependent on deterioration in the financial condition of that customer or in the overall economic conditions in a particular country or environment. Reserves are fully provided for all expected or probable losses of this nature. Gross trade accounts receivables totaled $601.9 million and the allowance for doubtful accounts was $10.8 million at December 31, 2009. Historically, the Companys reserves have been adequate to cover losses. Inventory adjustments. Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market. We review the components of our inventory on a regular basis for excess, obsolete and impaired inventory based on estimated future usage and sales. The Company generally fully reserves for stock levels in excess of one years expectation of usage. For those inventories not as susceptible to obsolescence, the Company provides reserves when the materials become spoiled or dated or specific to the inventory as determined by management. In the event of a lower cost or market issue arises, the Company will reserve for the value of the inventory in excess of current replacement cost. The likelihood of any material inventory write down is dependent on customer demand, competitive conditions or new product introductions by us or our competitors that vary from our current expectations. Gross inventory totaled $459.5 million and the allowance for excess and obsolete and price impairment was $106.3 million at December 31, 2009. Historically, the Companys reserve has been adequate to cover its losses. Valuation of goodwill. We are required to perform a review for impairment of goodwill in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. Goodwill is considered to be impaired if we determine that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. In addition to the annual review, an interim review is required if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances include: a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; a significant decline in our stock price or the stock price of comparable companies; a significant decline in our projected revenue or earnings growth or cash flows; an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; unanticipated competition; a loss of key personnel; a more likely than not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of; the testing for recoverability described under ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit. 43 Table of Contents Assessing the impairment of goodwill requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the fair value of the net assets of our reporting units. Additionally, since our reporting units share the majority of our assets, we must make assumptions and estimates in allocating the carrying value as well as the fair value of net assets to each reporting unit. Changes in the assumptions are considered in the analysis, and the Company performs an internal sensitivity analysis to further support the Companys assessment. In accordance with our policy, we completed our most recent annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill as of October 1, 2009 and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. In this analysis, it was determined that no reporting unit of the Company was at risk of impairment based on the current assessment. Our evaluation included management estimates of cash flow projections based on an internal strategic review. Key assumptions from this strategic review included revenue growth, future gross and operating margin growth, and the Companys weighted cost of capital. This revenue and margin growth was based on increased sales of new products as we expect to maintain our investment in research and development, the effect and growth from business acquisitions already consummated and lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue. Additional value creators assumed included increased efficiencies from capital spending. The resulting cash flows were discounted using a weighted average cost of capital of 10 percent. Operating mechanisms to ensure that these growth and efficiency assumptions will ultimately be realized was also considered in our evaluation. Our market capitalization at October 1, 2009 was also compared to the discounted cash flow analysis. We cannot guarantee our future annual or other periodic reviews for impairment of goodwill will not result in an impairment charge. Goodwill totaled $3,783.8 million at December 31, 2009. Valuation of intangible and other long lived assets. We periodically assess the carrying value of intangible and other long lived assets, including capitalized in process research and development, which require us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the future cash flows of these assets. The assets are considered to be impaired if we determine that the carrying value may not be recoverable based upon our assessment of the following events or changes in circumstances: the assets ability to continue to generate income from operations and positive cash flow in future periods; loss of legal ownership or title to the asset; significant changes in our strategic business objectives and utilization of the asset(s); and the impact of significant negative industry or economic trends. If the assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment we recognize is the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Fair value is determined by a combination of third party sources and discontinued cash flows. In addition, we base the useful lives and related amortization or depreciation expense on our estimate of the period that the assets will generate revenues or otherwise be used by the Company. We also periodically review the lives assigned to our intangible assets to ensure that our initial estimates do not exceed any revised estimated periods from which we expect to realize cash flows from the technologies. If a change were to occur in any of the above mentioned factors or estimates, the likelihood of a material change in our reported results would increase. At December 31, 2009, the net book value of identifiable intangible assets that are subject to amortization totaled $2,061.3 million, the net book value of unamortized identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives totaled $10.3 million and the net book value of property, plant and equipment totaled $829.0 million. Valuation of Financial Instruments. We account for our financial instruments at fair value based on ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures and ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. In determining fair value, we consider both the credit risk of our counterparties and our own creditworthiness. ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements for financial instruments. The framework requires for the valuation of investments using a three tiered approach in the valuation of investments. The Company reviews and evaluates the adequacy of the valuation techniques periodically. In the current year, there have not been any changes to the Companys valuation techniques. For details on the 44 Table of Contents assets and liabilities subject to fair value measurements and the related valuation techniques used, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A derivative is an instrument whose value is derived from an underlying instrument or index, such as interest rates, equity securities, currencies, commodities or credit spreads. Derivatives include futures, forwards, swaps, or option contracts, or other financial instruments with similar characteristics. Derivative contracts often involve future commitments to exchange interest payment streams or currencies based on a notional or contractual amount (e.g., interest rate swaps or currency forwards). The accounting for changes in fair value of a derivative instrument depends on the nature of the derivative and whether the derivative qualifies as a hedging instrument in accordance with ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. Those hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting are included as an adjustment to revenue or interest expense, depending upon the component of foreign currency risk the Company is hedging for. Those hedges that do not qualify for hedging accounting are included in non operating income as investment activities. Materially different reported results would be likely if volatility of the currency markets was different, or the Companys revenue forecasts were significantly different from actual. Joint Venture. As part of the acquisition of Applied Biosystems, the Company acquired a joint venture, Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments, in which the Company is a 50% owner. The Company accounts for its investment in the joint venture using the equity method, consistent with the guidance in ASC Topic 323 Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures, based on the circumstances where the Company is unable to unilaterally influence the operating or financial decisions of the investee, shares in the risks and rewards of all related business activities and the joint venture is a stand alone legal entity. The Companys portion of net income as a result of equity in the joint venture was $20.3 million for the period ended December 31, 2009. Our share of earnings or losses from its investment is shown in other income in Consolidated Statements of Operations as a single amount in accordance with ASC Topic 323 Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures. The Company accounts for non operating and stand alone assets and liabilities, which includes goodwill and intangibles associated with the acquisition, of the joint venture in the long term investment line in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Due to the nature of the joint venture, with sales, distribution and service commingled with the Companys operations, operating assets and liabilities specifically related to the joint venture are commingled or inseparable. As a result, for operating assets and liabilities the Company records these assets in the functional operating asset and liability classifications which represent the underlying asset or liability and does not record these assets or liabilities in the long term investment account. The Company accounts for its net investment in the equity of the joint venture under the equity method as one line item under long term investments. In September 2009, the Company announced a signed definitive agreement to sell its 50% ownership stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture and all assets related to the Companys mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation for $450.0 million in cash, subject to a conventional working capital adjustment. Included in the sale of the mass spectrometry business is the ownership stake in the joint venture as well as selected assets and liabilities directly attributable to the mass spectrometry business. The disposition of the joint venture generated approximately $280.0 million in net cash proceeds after taxes and the Company intends to use such proceeds to further pay down debt. The transaction closed on January 29, 2010. For information on our business combination accounting, see Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 14 for the discussion of subsequent events. Allocation of Purchase Price to Acquired Assets and Liabilities in Business Combinations. The cost of an acquired business is assigned to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. We assess fair value, which is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, using a variety of methods including an income approach such as a present value technique or a cost approach such as the estimation of current selling prices and replacement values. Fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, in process research and development (IPRD), and contingent payments, are measured based on the assumptions and estimations with regards to the variable factors such as the amount and timing of future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, appropriate risk adjusted discount rates, nonperformance risk, or other factors that market participants would 45 Table of Contents consider. Upon acquisition, we determine the estimated economic lives of the acquired intangible assets for amortization purposes, which are based on the underlying expected cash flows of such assets or per the Company policy. Adjustments to inventory are based on the fair market value of inventory and amortized into income based on the period in which the underlying inventory is sold. Goodwill is an asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized. Actual results may vary from projected results. Accrued merger and restructuring related costs. To the extent that exact amounts are not determinable, we have estimated amounts for direct costs of our acquisitions, merger related expenses and liabilities related to our business combinations and restructurings in accordance with ASC Topic 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination (EITF 95 3) in conjunction with the merger with Applied Biosystems and other acquisitions consummated prior to January 1, 2009. Our accrued merger and restructuring related costs were $26.5 million at December 31, 2009, the majority of which we expect to pay during 2010. Effective January 1, 2009, in the event the Company incurs the direct and indirect costs related to business combinations and related restructurings, the Company will expense such cost in the periods in which the cost is incurred. Materially different reported results would be likely if any of the estimated costs or expenses were significantly different from actual or if the approach, timing and extent of the restructuring plans adopted by management were different. Litigation reserves. Estimated amounts for claims that are probable and can be reasonably estimated are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The likelihood of a material change in these estimated reserves would be dependent on new claims as they may arise and the favorable or unfavorable outcome of the particular litigation. Both the amount and range of loss on pending litigation is uncertain. As such, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from unfavorable outcomes in litigation. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Such revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations and financial position. Insurance, environmental and divestiture reserves. We maintain self insurance reserves to cover potential property, casualty and workers compensation exposures from current operations and certain former business operations of Applied Biosystems and Dexter Corporation which were acquired in 2008 and 2000, respectively. These reserves are based on loss probabilities and take into account loss history as well as projections based on industry statistics. We also maintain environmental reserves to cover estimated costs for certain environmental exposures assumed in the mergers with Applied Biosystems and Dexter Corporation. The environmental reserves, which are not discounted, are determined by management based upon currently available information. Divestiture reserves are maintained for known claims and warranties assumed in the merger with Dexter Corporation. The product liability and warranty reserves are based on management estimates that consider historical claims. As actual losses and claims become known to us, we may need to make a material change in our estimated reserves, which could also materially impact our results of operations. Our insurance, environmental and divestiture reserves totaled $11.3 million at December 31, 2009. Benefit and pension plans. We sponsor and manage several retirement and health plans for employees and former employees, and nonqualified supplemental benefit plans for select domestic employees. A majority of the Companys current employees do not participate in these plans. Accounting and reporting for the pension plans requires the use of assumptions for discount rates, expected returns on plan assets and rates of compensation increase that are used by our actuaries to determine our liabilities and annual expenses for these plans in addition to the value of the plan assets included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the period ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average discount rates we used to determine the benefit obligation were 6.00%, 5.28%, and 5.60% for domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. The weighted average discount rates we used to determine the net periodic pension cost were 5.75%, 5.10%, and 5.90% for domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. The weighted average long term rates of expected return on plan assets were a range of 5.75% to 8.00%, 5.27%, and 8.00% for domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. Our actuaries also rely on assumptions, such as mortality rates, in preparing their estimates for us. The liabilities for the pension plans and postretirement plans are generally determined 46 Table of Contents using the unit credit method, which is to expense each participants benefit under the plan as they accrue. The discount rate is derived by using the yield curve consists of spot interest rates at 1/2 year increments for each of the next 30 years based on pricing and yield information for high quality corporate bonds to have the present value of the pension or postretirement benefit cash flows discounted by such yield curve matches the pension liabilities as of the measurement date. The rate of expected return on plan assets is an expected weighted average rate of earnings on the funds, which is a blended rate of historical returns and forward looking capital market assumptions over next 20 years adjusted by taking into account the benefits of diversification and rebalancing of the funds. The likelihood of materially different valuations for assets, liabilities or expenses, would depend on interest rates, investment returns, actual non investment experience or actuarial assumptions that are different from our current expectations. For 2010, the Company does not expect to have to fund our qualified pension plans as these plans are sufficiently funded such that contributions for 2010 are not required. Our supplemental plans are unfunded, however, we have assets in a rabbi trust which the assets may be used to pay certain non qualified plan benefits. The postretirement medial benefit plan the Company assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Dexter is fully funded, and thus, no additional funding is expected for 2010. The Company has other postretirement plans which are unfunded, however, they are substantially funded by insurance policies. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company contributed $25.8 million, $10.2 million, and $6.3 million to domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. The aggregate current liabilities relate to our domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans were $23.5 million, $1.3 million, and $5.1 million, respectively at December 31, 2009. Our most significant pension plan is a qualified domestic pension plan, which constituted approximately 82% of our consolidated pension plan assets and approximately 72% of our projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2009. The accrual of future service benefits for participants in the qualified domestic pension plan were frozen as of June 30, 2004. Effective in July 1, 2005, the expected rate of compensation increase was no longer factored into the determination of our net periodic pension expense as the accrual for future service benefits was frozen. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the discount rate for our qualified domestic pension plans for the period ended December 31, 2009 would decrease or increase our net periodic pension expense by approximately $0.3 million. Also, a one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected rate of return on our pension assets for the period ended December 31, 2009 would decrease or increase our net periodic pension expense by approximately $0.3 million. Actual weighted average allocation of our plan assets or valuation of our plan assets and benefit obligations may fluctuate significantly year over year. These fluctuations can be caused by conditions unrelated to our actuarial assumptions, including shifts the global economic environment, market performance and plan funding status. Unexpected unrealized gains or losses in the plan assets or benefit obligation are reflected in other comprehensive income in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized into income over the expected plan lives. Income taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of intercompany arrangements to share revenue and costs. In such arrangements there are uncertainties about the amount and manner of such sharing, which could ultimately result in changes once the arrangements are reviewed by taxing authorities. Although we believe that our approach to determining the amount of such arrangements is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final resolution of these matters will not be materially different than reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provisions or benefits in the period in which such determination is made. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The likelihood of a material change in our expected realization of these assets depends on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. Our ability to generate enough taxable income to utilize our deferred tax assets depends on many factors, among which are our ability to deduct tax loss carryforwards 47 Table of Contents against future taxable income, the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies, reversing deferred tax liabilities, changes in the deductibility of interest paid on our convertible subordinated debt and any significant changes in the tax treatment received on our business combinations. We believe that our deferred tax assets, net of our valuation allowance, should be realizable due to our estimate of future profitability in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, as applicable. Subsequent revisions to estimates of future taxable profits and losses and tax planning strategies could change the amount of the deferred tax asset we would be able to realize in the future, and therefore could increase or decrease the valuation allowance. ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes defines the confidence level that a tax position must meet in order to be recognized in the financial statements. In accordance, we regularly assess uncertain tax positions in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we have operations and account for the related financial statement implications. Unrecognized tax benefits have been reported in accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes two step approach under which the tax effect of a position is recognized only if it is more likely than not to be sustained and the amount of the tax benefit recognized is equal to the largest tax benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement of the tax position. Determining the appropriate level of unrecognized tax benefits requires us to exercise judgment regarding the uncertain application of tax law. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted when information becomes available or when an event occurs indicating a change is appropriate. Future changes in unrecognized tax benefits requirements could have a material impact on our results of operations. Segment Information. In connection with the acquisition of AB and the resulting reorganization, the Company has determined in accordance with ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting to operate as one operating segment. The Company believes our chief operating decision maker (CODM) makes decisions based on the Company as a whole. In addition, the Company shares the common basis of organization, types of products and services which derive revenues, and the economic environments. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to operate as one reporting segment. The Company will disclose the revenues for each of its internal divisions to allow the reader of the financial statements the ability to gain transparency into the operations of the Company. We have restated historical divisional revenue information to conform to the current year presentation. Share Based Compensation. We grant share based awards to eligible employees and directors to purchase shares of our common stock. In addition, we have a qualified employee stock purchase plan in which eligible employees from legacy Invitrogen and legacy AB may elect to withhold up to 15% and 10%, respectively, of their compensation to purchase shares of our common stock on a quarterly basis at a discounted price equal to 85% of the lower of the employees offering price or the closing price of the stock on the date of purchase. The benefits provided by these plans qualify as share based compensation under the provisions of ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, which requires us to recognize compensation expense based on their estimated fair values determined on the date of grant for all share based awards granted, and the cumulative expense is adjusted by modified or cancelled shares subsequently. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized $36.8 million and $23.3 million of compensation expense for employee stock options and purchase rights and restricted stock units, respectively. At December 31, 2009, there was $47.2 million and $51.2 million remaining in unrecognized compensation cost related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, respectively, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years and 2.3 years for employee stock options and restricted stock units, respectively. We estimate the fair value of share based awards on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing method (Black Scholes method). The determination of fair value of share based awards using an option pricing model requires the use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of share based compensation cost recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income. These include estimates of the expected term of share based awards, expected volatility of our stock price, expected dividends and the risk free interest rate. These estimates and assumptions are highly subjective and may result in materially different amounts should circumstances change and we employ different assumptions in our application of ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation in future periods. 48 Table of Contents For share based awards issued during the year ended December 31, 2009, we estimated the expected term by considering various factors including the vesting period of options granted, employees historical exercise and post employment termination behavior and aggregation by homogeneous employee groups. Our estimated volatility was derived using a combination of our historical stock price volatility and the implied volatility of market traded options of our common stock with terms of up to approximately two years. Our decision to use a combination of historical and implied volatility was based upon the availability of actively traded options of our common stock and our assessment that such a combination was more representative of future expected stock price trends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and currently do not anticipate paying such cash dividends. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development and expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, financial covenants, tax laws and other factors as the Board of Directors, in its discretion, deems relevant. The risk free interest rate is based upon United States Treasury securities with remaining terms similar to the expected term of the share based awards. Product Warranties. We accrue warranty costs for product sales at the time of shipment based on historical experience as well as anticipated product performance. Our product warranties extend over a specified period of time ranging up to two years from the date of sale depending on the product subject to warranty. The product warranty accrual covers parts and labor for repairs and replacements covered by our product warranties. We periodically review the adequacy of our warranty reserve, and adjust, if necessary, the warranty percentage and accrual based on actual experience and estimated costs to be incurred. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For information on the recent accounting pronouncements impacting our business, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates, and we selectively use financial instruments to manage these risks. We do not enter into financial instruments for speculation or trading purposes. These financial exposures are monitored and managed by us as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our results. Foreign Currency We translate the financial statements of each foreign subsidiary with a functional currency other than the United States dollar into the United States for consolidation using end of period exchange rates for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates during each reporting period for results of operations. Net gains or losses resulting from the translation of foreign financial statements and the effect of exchange rate changes on intercompany receivables and payables of a long term investment nature are recorded as a separate component of stockholders equity. These adjustments will affect net income only upon sale or liquidation of the underlying investment in foreign subsidiaries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our reported results of operations, which are reported in United States dollars. Based on the foreign currency rate in effect at the time of the translation of our foreign operations into United States dollars, reported results could be different from prior periods even if the same amount and mix of our products were sold at the same local prices during the two periods. This will affect our reported results of operations and also makes the comparison of our business performance in two periods more difficult. For example, our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, were approximately $3,280.3 million using applicable foreign currency exchange rates for that period. However, applying the foreign currency exchange rates in effect during the year ended December 31, 2008 to our revenues generated by foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency differ from the United States dollars for 2009 when including the results of our hedging program would result in approximately $39.0 million more revenue for that period. These changes in currency 49 Table of Contents exchange rates have affected and will continue to affect, our reported results, including our revenues, revenue growth rates, gross margins, income and losses as well as assets and liabilities. Foreign Currency Transactions We have operations through legal entities in Europe, Asia Pacific and the Americas. As a result, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $409.2 million of accounts receivable and $41.0 million of accounts payable, respectively, denominated in a foreign currency. The Company has accounts receivables and payables denominated in both the functional currency of the legal entity as well as receivables and payables denominated in a foreign currency that differs from the functional currency of the legal entity. For receivables and payables denominated in the legal entitys functional currency, the Company does not have financial statement risk, and therefore does not hedge such transactions. For those receivables and payables denominated in a currency that differs from the functional currency of the legal entity, the Company hedges such transactions to prevent financial statement risk. As a result, a hypothetical movement in foreign currency rates would not be expected to have a material financial statement impact on the settlement of these outstanding receivables and payables. Both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these receivables and payables were included in other income and expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net currency exchange gains and (losses) recognized on business transactions, net of hedging transactions, were $(9.0) million, $8.3 million and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and are included in other income and expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These gains and losses arise from the timing of cash collections compared to the hedged transactions, which can vary based on timing of actual customer payments. The Companys intercompany foreign currency receivables and payables are primarily concentrated in the euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and Japanese yen. Historically, we have used foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk on these intercompany foreign currency receivables and payables. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had a notional principal amount of $1,497.9 million and $740.5 million, respectively, in foreign currency forward contracts outstanding to hedge currency risk on specific intercompany and the third party receivables and payables denominated in a currency that differs from the legal entitys functional currency. These foreign currency forward contracts as of December 31, 2009, which settle in January 2010 through May 2010, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific receivables and payables will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the losses or gains from changes in the value of the underlying receivables and payables. The Company does not have any material un hedged foreign currency intercompany receivables or payables at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Refer to Note 1 Financial Instruments in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys hedging programs. The notional principal amounts provide one measure of the transaction volume outstanding as of period end, but do not represent the amount of our exposure to market loss. In many cases, outstanding principal amounts offset assets and liabilities and the Companys exposure is less than the notional amount. The estimates of fair value are based on applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement of these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses on the underlying exposures, will depend on actual market conditions during the remaining life of the instruments. Cash Flow Hedges The ultimate United States dollar value of future foreign currency sales generated by our reporting units is subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys intent is to limit this exposure from changes in currency exchange rates through hedging. When the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign currencies, the decline in the United States dollar value of future foreign currency revenue is offset by gains in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. Conversely, when the dollar weakens, the opposite occurs. The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk on forecasted foreign currency sales which are expected to be settled within next twelve months. The change in fair value prior to their maturity was accounted for as cash flow hedges, and recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets according to ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. To the extent any portion of the forward 50 Table of Contents contracts is determined to not be an effective hedge, the increase or decrease in value prior to the maturity was recorded in other income or expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recognized immaterial net losses related to the ineffective portion of its hedging instruments in other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. No hedging relationships were terminated as a result of ineffective hedging or forecasted transactions no longer probable of occurring. The Company continually monitors the probability of forecasted transactions as part of the hedge effectiveness testing. At December 31, 2009, the Company had a notional principal amount of $689.1 million in foreign currency forward contracts outstanding to hedge foreign currency revenue risk under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is reported in other current assets or other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as appropriate. The Company reclasses deferred gains or losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income into revenue when the underlying foreign currency sales occur and are recognized in consolidated earnings. The Company uses inventory turnover ratio for each international operating unit to align the timing of a hedged item and a hedging instrument to impact the Consolidated Statements of Operations during the same reporting period. At December 31, 2009, the Company expects to reclass $7.5 million of net losses on derivative instruments from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings during the next twelve months. At December 31, 2009, a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency rates against the United States dollar would result in a decrease or an increase of $57.0 million in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives accounted for under cash flow hedges. Actual gains or losses could differ materially from this analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of currency rate movements. Commodity Prices Our exposure to commodity price changes relates to certain manufacturing operations that utilize certain commodities as raw materials. We manage our exposure to changes in those prices primarily through our procurement and sales practices. Interest Rates Our investment portfolio is maintained in accordance with our investment policy which defines allowable investments, specifies credit quality standards and limits the credit exposure of any single issuer. The fair value of our cash equivalents, marketable securities, and derivatives is subject to change as a result of changes in market interest rates and investment risk related to the issuers credit worthiness or our own credit risk. The Company uses credit default swap spread to derive risk adjusted discount rate to measure the fair value of some of our financial instruments. At December 31, 2009, we had $1,028.2 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, short term investments and long term investments, all of which approximated the fair value. Changes in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on the fair value of $648.1 million of our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short term investments at December 31, 2009, as these consisted of highly liquid securities with short term maturities. The Company accounts for $337.4 million of its long term investment in the joint venture under the equity method and $8.0 million of its long term investments in non publicly traded companies under the cost method, thus, changes in market interest rates would not be expected to have an impact on these investments. Gain or losses from the changes in market interest rates in our other long term investment of $34.8 million would not be material. See Note 1 in our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2009, the Companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and variable rate borrowings. At issue date of November 2008, all of term loan A and term loan B was subject to variable interest rates. In January 2009, as required by the Credit Agreement and to mitigate interest rate risk and resulting cash flow variability, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted its variable rate interest payments to fixed rate interest payments for $1,000.0 million of the term loan A principal The interest rate swap agreements are expected to settle in two parts, $300.0 million maturing in January 2012 and $700.0 million maturing in January 2013. Without the swap agreements, a hypothetical increase in the underlying borrowing rate (LIBOR or base rate) of 100 basis points would have changed interest payments on term loan A by 13.3 million and on term loan B by $6.4 million, based on each loans principal balance at December 31, 2009, respectively. However, as a result of these swap agreements, the Company reduced the amount of term loan A principal subject to interest rate risk to only $330.0 million. With the swap agreements in place, an increase in the underlying borrowing 51 Table of Contents rate of 100 basis points would increase interest payments on term loan A by $3.3 million. The changes in fair value prior to their maturity of each interest rate swap agreement are accounted for as cash flow hedges, and recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets according to ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. To the extent any portion of the swap agreements is determined to not be an effective hedge, the increase or decrease in value prior to the maturity was recorded in other income or expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, there was no recognized gain or loss related to the ineffective portion of its hedging instruments in other income or expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. No hedging relationships were terminated as a result of ineffective hedging or forecasted transactions no longer probable of occurring. The Company continuously monitors the probability of forecasted and outstanding transactions as part of the hedge effectiveness testing. Fair Value Measurements ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures requires certain financial and non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value using a three tiered approach. The assets and liabilities which used level 3 or significant unobservable inputs to measure the fair value represent an insignificant portion of total Companys financial positions at December 31, 2009. $19.1 million was transferred out of level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2009, of which $5.4 million was due to the impairment of our holdings in the Reserve Primary Money Market Fund (Fund), $12.9 million was due to aggregate distributions of the Fund, and $0.8 million was the settlements on auction rate securities with UBS. The Company already received all expected distribution from the Fund and a cash loan for the value of the auction rate securities from UBS and therefore does not believe there is any credit risk on these investments. For further discussion on the Companys fair value measurements and valuation methodologies, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company does not have any material off balance sheet arrangements. For further discussion on the Companys commitments and contingencies, refer to Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See discussion under Market Risk in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 52 Table of Contents 
 
ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW The Company is a global biotechnology tools company dedicated to helping our customers make scientific discoveries and ultimately improve the quality of life. Our systems, reagents, and services enable researchers to accelerate scientific exploration, driving to discoveries and developments that make life better. Life Technologies customers do their work across the biological spectrum, working to advance genomic medicine, regenerative science, molecular diagnostics, agricultural and environmental research, and 21st century forensics. In 2009, the Company had sales of approximately $3,280.3 million, employed 9,000 people, had a presence in more than 160 countries, and possessed a rapidly growing intellectual property estate of over 3,900 patents and exclusive licenses. The Companys systems and reagents, enable, simplify and improve a broad spectrum of biological research of genes, proteins and cells within academic and life science research and commercial applications. Our scientific know how is making biodiscovery research techniques more effective and efficient to pharmaceutical, biotechnology, agricultural, government and academic researchers with backgrounds in a wide range of scientific disciplines. The Company offers many different products and services, and is continually developing and or acquiring others. Some of our specific product categories include the following: High throughput gene cloning and expression technology, which allows customers to clone and expression test genes on an industrial scale. Pre cast electrophoresis products, which improve the speed, reliability and convenience of separating nucleic acids and proteins. Antibodies, which allow researchers to capture and label proteins, visualize their location through use of Molecular Probes dyes and discern their role in disease. Magnetic beads, which are used in a variety of settings, such as attachment of molecular labels, nucleic acid purification, and organ and bone marrow tissue type testing. Molecular Probes fluorescence based technologies, which facilitate the labeling of molecules for biological research and drug discovery. Transfection reagents, which are widely used to transfer genetic elements into living cells enabling the study of protein function and gene regulation. PCR and Real Time PCR systems and reagents, which enable researchers to amplify and detect targeted nucleic acids (DNA and RNA molecules) for a host of applications in molecular biology. Cell culture media and reagents used to preserve and grow mammalian cells, which are used in large scale cGMP bio production facilities to produce large molecule biologic therapies. RNA Interference reagents, which enable scientists to selectively turn off genes in biology systems to gain insight into biological pathways. Capillary electrophoresis and massively parallel SOLiDtm DNA sequencing systems and reagents, which are used to discover sources of genetic and epigenetic variation, to catalog the DNA structure of organisms de novo, to verify the composition of genetic research material, and to apply these genetic analysis discoveries in markets such as forensic human identification. During 2009, we aligned our products and services into the following four divisions: Molecular Biology Systems, Genetic Systems, Cell Systems and Mass Spectrometry. The Mass Spectrometry division was comprised of a 50% interest in a joint venture that the Company acquired as a part of the AB acquisition. The Company sold the Mass Spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation on January 29, 2010. The Company accounted for this investment using the equity method. Our share of earnings or losses, including revenue, is included in other income. The MBS division includes the molecular biology based technologies including basic and real time PCR, RNAi, DNA synthesis, thermo cycler instrumentation, cloning and protein expression profiling and protein analysis. The CS division includes all product lines used in the study of cell function, including cell culture media and sera, stem cells and related tools, cellular imaging products, antibodies, drug discovery services, and cell therapy related products. The GS division includes sequencing systems and reagents, including capillary electrophoresis and the SOLiD system, as well as reagent kits developed specifically for applied markets, such as forensics, food safety and pharmaceutical quality monitoring. Upon completion of the acquisition of AB in 2008, we commenced the process 28 Table of Contents of integrating the businesses and administration of the combined companies. A key part of this process was a reorganization of the business, research and development, and sales and marketing organizations within Life Technologies such that they are focused on optimizing the unique technologies and capabilities of the combined companies to drive new developments and business performance. The principal markets for our products include the life sciences research market and the biopharmaceutical production market. We divide our principal market and customer base into principally three categories: Life science researchers. The life sciences research market consists of laboratories generally associated with universities, medical research centers, government institutions such as the United States National Institutes of Health, or the NIH, and other research institutions as well as biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, energy, agricultural, and chemical companies. Researchers at these institutions are using our products and services in a broad spectrum of scientific activities, such as: searching for drugs or other techniques to combat a wide variety of diseases, such as cancer and viral and bacterial disease; researching diagnostics for disease identification or for improving the efficacy of drugs to targeted patient groups; and assisting in vaccine design, bioproduction, and agriculture. Our products and services provide the research tools needed for genomics studies, proteomics studies, gene splicing, cellular analysis, and other key research applications that are required by these life science researchers. In addition, our research tools are important in the development of diagnostics for disease determination as well as identification of patients for more targeted therapy. Commercial producers of biopharmaceutical and other high valued proteins. We serve industries that apply genetic engineering to the commercial production of useful but otherwise rare or difficult to obtain substances, such as proteins, interferons, interleukins, t PA and monoclonal antibodies. The manufacturers of these materials require larger quantities of the same sera and other cell growth media that we provide in smaller quantities to researchers. Industries involved in the commercial production of genetically engineered products include the biotechnology, pharmaceutical, food processing and agricultural industries. Users who apply our technologies to enable or improve particular activities. We provide tools that apply our technology to enable or improve activities in particular markets, which we refer to as applied markets. The current focus of our products for these markets is in the areas of: forensic analysis, which is used to identify individuals based on their DNA; quality and safety testing, such as testing required to measure food, beverage, or environmental quality, and pharmaceutical manufacturing quality and safety; and biosecurity, which refers to products needed in response to the threat of biological terrorism and other malicious, accidental, and natural biological dangers. The Applied Biosystems branded forensic testing and human identification products and services are innovative and market leading tools that have been widely accepted by investigators and laboratories in connection with criminal investigations, the exoneration of individuals wrongly accused or convicted of crimes, identifying victims of disasters, and paternity testing. Our Strategy Our objective is to provide essential life science technologies for basic research, drug discovery, and development of diagnostic and commercial applications. Our strategies to achieve this objective include: New Product Innovation and Development Developing innovative new products. We place a great emphasis on internally developing new technologies for the life sciences research markets. Additionally, we are looking to leverage the broad range of our technologies to create unique customer application based solutions. A significant portion of our growth and current revenue base has been created by the application of technology to accelerate our customers research process, and to various Standardized testing environments such as human identification. In licensing technologies. We actively and selectively in license new technologies, which we modify to create high value kits, many of which address bottlenecks in the research or drug discovery laboratories. We have a dedicated group of individuals that are focused on in licensing technologies from academic and government institutions, as well as biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies. 29 Table of Contents Acquisitions. We actively and selectively seek to acquire and integrate companies with complementary products and technologies, trusted brand names, strong market positions and strong intellectual property positions. We have made numerous acquisitions since becoming a public company in 1999. Divestitures. In September 2009, the Company announced a signed definitive agreement to sell its 50% ownership stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture and all assets related to the Companys mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation for $450.0 million in cash, subject to a conventional working capital adjustment. The transaction closed on January 29, 2010. Included in the sale of the mass spectrometry business is the ownership stake in the joint venture as well as selected assets and liabilities directly attributable to the mass spectrometry business. The Company approximates $280.0 million of net cash proceeds after taxes upon completion of the transaction. The joint venture generated pre tax net income of $20.3 million and $1.6 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively. The results of operations for the joint venture are presented as a single amount in the other income/(expense) line in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Utilize Existing Sales, Distribution and Manufacturing Infrastructure Multi national sales footprint. We have developed a broad sales and distribution network with sales a presence in more than 160 countries. Our sales force is highly trained, with many of our sales people possessing degrees in molecular biology, biochemistry or related fields. We believe our sales force has a proven track record in successfully marketing our products across the globe and we expect to leverage this capacity to increase sales of our existing, newly developed and acquired products. High degree of customer satisfaction. Our sales, marketing, customer service and technical support staff provide our customers exceptional service and have been highly rated in customer satisfaction surveys. We use this strength to attract new customers and maintain existing customers. Rapid product delivery. We have the ability to ship typical consumable orders on a same day or next day basis. We use this ability to provide convenient service to our customers to generate additional sales. Invest in High Growth Markets We will focus our investments and resources in markets that provide high growth opportunities, particularly in four areas: Next Generation DNA Sequencing. Our SOLiD technology system represents the latest innovation in next generation sequencing, a method of sequencing the genome at high throughput and relatively low cost. We will continue to invest in cutting edge technology, customer collaborations, and sales force expertise to remain the leader in this important area of research. We will also continue to invest in future sequencing technologies that will allow for more rapid and lower cost sequencing. Emerging Geographies. We continue to focus and invest in high growth geographic markets such as China and India, with direct sales and marketing personnel, as well as manufacturing and distribution facilities. We will further optimize our presence in these markets by leveraging collaborations with key government and academic institutions and local companies. Regenerative Medicine. We are the premier provider of biological products and services for advancing the field of regenerative medicine. We will continue to invest in supplementing our comprehensive suite of product offerings, including animal origin free reagents for stem cell research, and unique primary and stem cells for drug discovery screening. Applied Markets. We will leverage the growing trend of applying biology based approaches to markets beyond basic life science research. We have a strong presence in these markets and we will continue to invest time and resources to further add to our product portfolio and customer contacts in many applied markets, including, but not limited to, forensics, food and water safety testing, agbio, animal health, and human diagnostics. 30 Table of Contents The Company anticipates that our results of operations may fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis and will be difficult to predict. The timing and degree of fluctuation will depend upon several factors, including those discussed under our Risk Factors. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 (in millions) 2009 2008 $ Increase % Increase Molecular Biology Systems $ 1,581.6 $ 736.2 $ 845.4 115 % Cell Systems 788.7 747.4 41.3 6 % Genetic Systems 906.5 134.9 771.6 NM Corporate and other 3.5 1.8 1.7 94 % Total revenues $ 3,280.3 $ 1,620.3 $ 1,660.0 102 % Total gross margin $ 1,824.7 $ 940.8 $ 883.9 94 % Total gross margin % 56 % 58 % Revenues The Companys revenues increased by $1,660.0 million or 102% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in revenue is driven primarily by an increase of $1,649.4 million due to the acquisition of AB. The remaining year over year change in revenue was due to increases of $49.1 million in volume and pricing, partially offset by a decrease of $39.0 million in unfavorable currency impacts including hedging. As of January 1, 2009, we aligned our business under four divisions Molecular Biology Systems, Genetic Systems, Cell Systems and Mass Spectrometry. The Mass Spectrometry division is comprised of a 50% interest in a joint venture that the Company acquired as a part of the AB acquisition. The Company accounted for this investment using the equity method of accounting. Our share of earnings or losses related to the joint venture, including revenue and the related expenses, is included in other income. The Molecular Biology Systems (MBS) division includes the molecular biology based technologies including basic and real time PCR, RNAi, DNA synthesis, thermo cycler instrumentation, cloning and protein expression profiling and protein analysis. Revenue in this division increased by $845.4 million or 115% in 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $833.5 million from the acquisition of AB and $29.8 million in increased volume and pricing, partially offset by $17.9 million in unfavorable currency impacts including hedging. The Cell Systems (CS) division includes all product lines used in the study of cell function, including cell culture media and sera, stem cells and related tools, cellular imaging products, antibodies, drug discovery services, and cell therapy related products. Revenue in this division increased $41.3 million or 6% for 2009 compared to 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $46.1 million from the acquisition of AB, $13.5 million in increased volume and pricing, and $0.9 million from acquisitions, partially offset by $19.2 million in unfavorable currency impacts including hedging. The Genetic System (GS) division includes sequencing systems and reagents, including capillary electrophoresis and the SOLiD system, as well as reagent kits developed specifically for applied markets, such as forensics, food safety and pharmaceutical quality monitoring. Revenue in this division increased by $771.6 million for 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by the acquisition of AB. Changes in exchange rates of foreign currencies, especially the Japanese yen, the British pound sterling, the euro and the Canadian dollar, can significantly increase or decrease our reported revenue on sales made in these currencies and could result in a material positive or negative impact on our reported results. In addition to currency exchange rates, we expect that future revenues will be affected by, among other things, new product introductions, competitive conditions, customer research budgets, government research funding, the rate of expansion of our customer base, price increases, product discontinuations and acquisitions or dispositions of businesses or product lines. 31 Table of Contents Gross Profit Gross profit increased $883.9 million or 94% in 2009 compared to 2008. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to the acquisition of AB as well as increased pricing on sales as defined in the revenue movement, offset by an increase of $195.7 million in purchased intangible assets amortization. Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets acquired in our business combinations was $282.6 million for 2009 compared to $86.9 million for 2008. The increase was the result of the amortization of intangibles resulting from the acquisition of AB. Gross profit for 2009 included an increase of $18.5 million and $29.9 million of deferred revenue adjustments and acquired inventory fair market value adjustments as a result of the AB acquisition. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, the acquired deferred revenue and inventory is adjusted to fair value. The Company amortizes this fair value adjustment into income in line with the underlying acquired assets and liabilities. Operating Expenses For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 As a As a Percentage Percentage Operating of Operating of $ Increase % Increase (in millions) Expense Revenues Expense Revenues (Decrease) (Decrease) Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative $ 987.1 30 % $ 499.3 31 % $ 487.8 98 % Research and development 337.1 10 % 142.5 9 % 194.6 137 % Business consolidation costs 112.9 3 % 38.6 2 % 74.3 192 % In process research and development 1.7 NM 93.3 6 % (91.6 ) (98 )% Selling, General and Administrative. For the year ended December 31, 2009, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $487.8 million or 98% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $448.3 million related to the acquisition of AB and an increase of $56.6 million in compensation, bonuses and benefits, partially offset by a decrease of $14.8 million in infrastructure costs. Research and Development. For the year ended December 31, 2009, research and development expenses increased $194.6 million or 137% compared to the year ended December 31, 2008. This increase was driven primarily by $193.1 million related to the acquisition of AB and an increase of $4.1 million in compensation, bonuses and benefits, partially offset by $2.0 million in favorable currency impacts. Business Consolidation Costs. Business consolidation costs for the year ended December 31, 2009 were $112.9 million, compared to $38.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and represent costs associated with our integration efforts related to AB and to realign our business and consolidate certain facilities. The increase in costs year over year is due to the ramp up of activities performed in the integration post merger, which was completed in November of 2008. Included in these costs are various activities related to the acquisition which were associated with combining the two companies and consolidating redundancies. Also included in these expenses are one time expenses associated with third party providers assisting in the realignment of the two companies. We expect to continue to incur business consolidation costs into the foreseeable future, albeit at a reduced amount, as we further consolidate operations and facilities and realign the previously existing businesses. Purchased In Process Research and Development. Purchased in process research and development costs were $1.7 million for 2009 compared to $93.3 million in 2008. In 2008, in association with the AB merger as well as some immaterial acquisitions, the Company acquired and expensed in process research and development. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income. Interest income was $4.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $24.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to economic conditions leading to lower interest rates available on invested cash balances and lower cash balances invested. 32 Table of Contents Interest income in the future will be affected by changes in short term interest rates and changes in cash balances, which may materially increase or decrease as a result of acquisitions, debt repayment, stock repurchase programs and other financing activities. Interest Expense. Interest expense was $192.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $85.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in interest expense was primarily driven by the interest incurred on the $2,400.0 million of term loans issued in November 2008 in connection with the AB merger. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company made early principal repayments of $350.0 million on term loan B, which resulted in the Company accelerating the write off of $12.5 million of deferred financing costs attributable to the principal repaid. The loss is separately identified in our results from operations as an early extinguishment of debt. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income, net, was $9.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared to $5.7 million for the same period of 2008. Included in 2009 was $20.3 million of income related to our interest in the joint venture. The gain was offset by $10.9 million in foreign currency losses and other miscellaneous items. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes as a percentage of pre tax income from continuing operations was 25.7% for the year ended December 31, 2009 compared with 96.1% for the year ended December 31, 2008. The effective tax rate for 2009 is significantly lower than 2008 and is primarily attributable to the 2009 release of a valuation allowance of $19.8 million, and in 2008, the recognition of $60.6 million in United States income tax in connection with the repatriation of non United States retained earnings to help fund the AB acquisition and $93.3 million of acquired purchased in process research and development costs which were expensed for financial reporting purposes but were not deductible for tax purposes. Comparison of Years Ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 (in millions) 2008 2007 $ Increase % Increase Molecular Biology Systems revenues $ 736.2 $ 583.6 $ 152.6 26 % Cell Systems revenues 747.4 652.2 95.2 15 % Genetic Systems revenues 134.9 45.9 89.0 194 % Corporate and other 1.8 1.8 NM Total revenues $ 1,620.3 $ 1,281.7 $ 338.6 26 % Total gross margin $ 940.8 $ 715.9 $ 224.9 31 % Total gross margin % 58 % 56 % Revenues Revenues increased $338.6 million or 26% for 2008 compared to 2007. Of the $338.6 million increase in revenue, revenue from the acquisition of AB accounted for 56% of the total increase or $191.0 million. AB revenue accounted for $98.0 million, $5.3 million, and $85.4 million of the increase in the MBS, CS, and GS divisions, respectively. The remaining $147.6 million of the Companys increase was primarily a result of $71.8 million of increased volume and new product revenue, $40.3 million in favorable foreign currency translation, $30.1 million in increased price and product mix optimization, $6.7 million of freight recovery and $2.8 million of royalty revenue. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $224.9 million or 31% for 2008 compared to 2007. Of the $224.9 million increase in gross profit, gross profit from AB accounts for 56% of the total increase or $126.7 million. The remaining $98.2 million increase was primarily a result of $33.6 million in increased volume and new products, increased price of $30.1 million, and $28.2 million in favorable foreign currency impacts. Drivers of year over year changes in the gross margin are consistent with the drivers of revenue year over year. Gross profit for 2008 included an increase of $4.3 million and $30.8 million of deferred revenue adjustments and acquired inventory fair market value adjustments as a result of a business combination. In accordance with purchase accounting rules, the acquired 33 Table of Contents deferred revenue and inventory is adjusted to fair value. The Company amortizes this fair value adjustment into income in line with the underlying acquired assets and liabilities. Amortization expense related to purchased intangible assets was $86.9 million for 2008 compared to $98.7 million for 2007. The decrease in intangible amortization is due to the completion of amortization of certain acquired intangibles at the end of 2007, partially offset by the amortization of the new intangibles acquired in the AB acquisition. Operating Expenses For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 As a As a Percentage Percentage Operating of Operating of (in millions) Expense Revenues Expense Revenues $ Increase % Increase Operating Expenses Selling, general and administrative $ 499.3 31 % $ 416.1 32 % $ 83.2 20 % Research and development 142.5 9 % 115.8 9 % 26.7 23 % Business Consolidation Costs 38.6 2 % 5.6 NM 33.0 NM In process research and development 93.3 6 % 93.3 NM Selling, General and Administrative. For 2008, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $83.2 million or 20% compared to 2007. Of the $83.2 million increase, $45.1 million resulted from the acquisition of AB, and $28.9 million resulted from increase salaries and bonuses. The remaining increase of $9.2 million resulted primarily from increased travel expense of $4.0 million, purchased services of $3.6 million, $4.2 million of foreign currency translation impacts, $3.2 million of rent and utilities expenses, and $2.4 million of depreciation. This was partially offset by a decrease in infrastructure costs of $7.8 million. Research and Development. Research and development expenses for 2008 increased $26.7 million or 23% compared to 2007. Of the $26.7 million increase, $17.5 million resulted from the acquisition of AB. The remaining $9.2 million increase resulted primarily from an increase of $7.2 million in salaries and bonus expenses and $3.2 million in increased supplies expense partially offset by $0.9 million of purchased services. Overall, gross research and development expenses increased 23% year over year as a result of our continued efforts to expand new product development projects. Business Consolidation Costs. Business consolidation costs for 2008 were $38.6 million, compared to $5.6 million in 2007, and represent costs associated with our acquisition efforts related to AB and to realign our business and consolidation of certain facilities. Included in these costs are various activities related to the acquisition which were associated with combining the two companies and consolidating redundancies. Also included in these expenses are one time expenses associated with third party providers assisting in the realignment of the two companies. Purchased In Process Research and Development. Purchased in process research and development costs were $93.3 million in 2008 compared to none in 2007. These costs were primarily attributable to the AB merger as well as some immaterial acquisitions in which the Company acquired and expensed in process research and development expenses. Other Income (Expense) Interest Income. Interest income was $24.6 million in 2008 compared to $28.0 million in 2007. The $3.4 million decrease resulted primarily from a decrease in the average yield of our investments in 2008 along with the lower balance in cash and cash equivalents in the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the purchase price paid for the AB acquisition. 34 Table of Contents Interest Expense. Interest expense was $85.1 million for 2008 compared to $67.4 million for 2007. The primary reason for the increase in interest expense was interest incurred on the $2,400.0 million of term loans issued in November 2008 in conjunction with acquisition of AB. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income, net, was $5.7 million for 2008 compared to $0.3 million for 2007. The primary reason for the $5.4 million increase in other income was foreign currency net gains of $4.0 million and joint venture income of $1.6 million related to our interest in the joint venture. Provision for Income Taxes. The provision for income taxes as a percentage of our pre tax income was 96.1% for 2008 compared with 23.7% of our pre tax income for 2007. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily attributable to United States income tax recognized in connection with the repatriation of non United States retained earnings to help fund the AB acquisition and acquired purchased in process research and development costs which were expensed for financial reporting purposes but were not deductible for tax purposes. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds will depend on many factors, including future business acquisitions, future stock or debt repayment or repurchases, scientific progress in our research and development programs and the magnitude of those programs, our ability to establish collaborative and licensing arrangements, the cost involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and competing technological and market developments. In light of the current market conditions surrounding the credit market, the risk of the inability to obtain credit in the market is a potential risk. We believe that our annual positive cash flow generation and secured financing arrangements allow the company to mitigate this risk and ensures the company has the necessary working capital requirements to fund continued operations. We intend to continue our strategic investment activities in new product development, in licensing technologies and acquisitions that support our platforms. In the event additional funding needs arise, we may obtain cash through new debt or stock issuance, or a combination of sources. In February 2010, the Company issued $1,500.0 million of unsecured bonds in which the proceeds were used to pay down the existing term loans. The Company believes based on its risk profile, with strong cash generation and the history of paying down debt in a timely manner, it will have the ability to raise funding in the future through public and private markets. However, the Company does not anticipate the need for additional financing and expects to fund future operation through the generation of cash from operations. In January of 2010, the Company sold its 50% investment stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technology Instruments joint venture for approximately $280.0 million in net cash proceeds after taxes, which was used to further pay down the term loans. As a result of the payment on the existing term loans, the Company expects to accelerate the recognition of debt issuance cost expense associated with the term loans. At December 31, 2009, the Company had $56.4 million of unamortized debt issuance costs related to these term loans. The Company does not believe the bond issuance or the sale of the joint venture will materially alter its future cash flows. The Company has, and expects to be able to continue to generate positive cash flow from operations to fund both short term and long term cash needs. Should changes in the Companys cash needs occur, the Company could seek additional financing and believes such financing would be obtained at reasonable rates. Operating Activities. Operating activities provided net cash of $714.5 million during 2009 primarily from net income of $144.6 million plus net non cash charges of $656.2 million. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided a net decrease of $86.3 million in cash during the period. Within the non cash charges in operating activities, the primary drivers were amortization of intangible assets of $296.0 million, depreciation charges of $115.7 million, acquired inventory fair market value adjustments of $62.7 million, share based compensation of $60.1 million, and non cash interest expense of $42.9 million resulting from the retrospective adoption of a bifurcation requirement on our convertible debt as prescribed by ASC Topic 470 20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options. The primary drivers of the cash decrease from changes in operating assets and liabilities were a decrease in income taxes payable of $122.8 million, an increase in trade accounts receivable of $10.4 million, and an increase in other assets of $6.1 million, which were offset by an increase in accrued expenses and other current liabilities of $38.3 million, an increase in accounts payable of $6.5 million, and decreases in inventories of $11.8 million. The Company continued to generate positive cash flows from operations due to the margin earned on sales and the continued revenue growth throughout 2009. 35 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $596.6 million and short term investments of $10.8 million. Our working capital was $410.4 million as of December 31, 2009 including restricted cash of $40.7 million. Our funds are currently primary invested in marketable securities, money market funds, and bank deposits with maturities of less than three months. A majority of the Companys cash and cash equivalents are held in the United States. Repatriation of funds outside of the United States are subject to local laws and customs. As of December 31, 2009, foreign subsidiaries in China, Japan, and India had available bank lines of credit denominated in local currency to meet short term working capital requirements. The United States dollar equivalent of these facilities totaled $13.4 million, none of which was outstanding at December 31, 2009. Our working capital factors, such as inventory turnover and days sales outstanding, are seasonal and, on an interim basis during the year, may require an influx of short term working capital. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, investments, cash provided by operations and interest income earned thereon and cash available from bank loans and lines of credit will satisfy our working capital requirements debt obligations and capital expenditure for the foreseeable future. The Company has undertaken restructuring activities in connection with the merger of Applied Biosystems, which primarily include one time termination costs, such as severance costs related to elimination of duplicative positions and change in control agreements to mostly sales, finance, IT, research and development, and customer services. The restructuring plan also includes charges associated with the closure of certain leased facilities and one time relocation costs for the employees whose employment positions have been moved to another location. As a result of the plan, the Company expects to achieve operating efficiencies in future periods related to salary and overhead costs specifically related to its selling, general and administrative and research and development costs. At December 31, 2009, the Company had restructuring accruals of $26.5 million pursuant to this plan, and payments are expected to be fully paid in 2010, excluding payments related to the unfavorable lease contracts as a result of the restructuring plan which will run through 2011. Total restructuring expenditures are estimated to be approximately $147.9 million, of which $119.0 million were incurred and recorded in the financial statements and $92.9 million were paid since the inception of the plan. The Company expects the restructuring activities to result in long term cost savings in cost of goods sold as well as in selling, general and administrative costs related to the efficiencies in procurement and manufacturing as well as the reduction of redundant and excess overhead. The Company expects long term cost savings in excess of the costs to complete the plan. The Companys pension plans and post retirement benefit plans are funded in accordance with local statutory requirements or by voluntary contributions. The funding requirement is based on the funded status, which is measured by using various actuarial assumptions, such as interest rate, rate of compensation increase, or expected return on plan assets. The Companys qualified pension plans are adequately funded at December 31, 2009. Future contribution may change when new information is available or local statutory requirement are changed. Based on the actuarial estimates at December 31, 2009, the Company expects to contribute $23.5 million to non qualified pension plans during 2010, which has already been funded in our rabbi trust to satisfy a significant portion of these contribution requirements. Investing Activities. Net cash used by investing activities during 2009 was $258.0 million. The cash was used for purchases of property, plant, and equipment of $180.6 million, business combinations of $55.0 million, and asset purchases of $31.3 million, partially offset by cash received for a business divestiture of $15.2 million. For 2010, we expect to spend in the range of $150.0 million to $175.0 million on purchases of property, plant and equipment, which includes approximately $30.0 million of integration related capital expenditures. The spending will be driven in part by additional capital equipment, information technology, and integration related capital as a result of merger with Applied Biosystems. During 2008, we completed the acquisition of Applied Biosystems for a total purchase price of $4,564.4 million, of which $2,738.9 million was paid in cash. The results of operations were included from the date of acquisition. In September 2009, the Company announced a signed definitive agreement to sell its 50% ownership stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture and all assets related to the Companys mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation for $450.0 million in cash, subject to a conventional working capital adjustment. Included in the sale of the mass spectrometry business is the ownership stake in the joint venture as well as selected assets and liabilities directly attributable to the mass spectrometry 36 Table of Contents business. The Company approximates that it will receive $280.0 million of net cash proceeds after taxes upon completion of the transaction and the Company intends to use such proceeds to pay down debt. For information on our business combination accounting, see Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 14 for the discussion of subsequent events. During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Company completed several additional stock acquisitions that were not material individually or collectively to the overall consolidated financial statements and the results of operations. The Company completed such acquisitions for the aggregate purchase price of $81.6 million, $88.5 million, and $23.1 million during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, of which $35.9 million, $88.5 million, and $23.1 million were paid in cash during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Pursuant to the purchase agreements for certain prior year and current year acquisitions, we could be required to make additional contingent cash payments based on certain technological milestones, patent milestones and the achievement of future gross sales of the acquired companies. Some of the purchase agreements the Company has entered into do not limit the payments to a maximum amount, nor restrict the payment deadlines. During the years ended 2009, none of the contingent payments were earned or paid for the achievement of future gross sales. During the year ended 2009, one of the contingent payments, totaling $1.7 million, was earned for the achievement of a certain technological milestone. For acquisitions accounted for under SFAS 141, Business Combinations, the Company will account for any such contingent payments as an addition to the purchase price of the acquired company. For acquisitions accounted for under ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations, these obligations will be accounted for at fair value at the time of acquisition with subsequent revisions reflected in the Statement of Operations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, $1.7 million of the contingent payments earned has been added to the purchase price accordingly. Financing Activities. Net cash used by financing activities totaled $242.3 million for 2009. The primary drivers were $425.0 million in principal payments on long term obligations, partially offset by $171.2 million in proceeds from stock issued in employee stock plans. In July 2007, the Board approved a program authorizing management to repurchase up to $500.0 million of common stock over the next three years. Under the 2007 plan, the Company repurchased 1.2 million shares at a total cost of approximately $100.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. The Company did not repurchase shares during the year ended December 31, 2009. The cost of repurchased shares are included in treasury stock and reported as a reduction in stockholders equity. The Credit Agreement In November 2008, the Company entered into a $2,650.0 million credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) consisting of a $250.0 million revolving credit facility, a 5 year term loan A facility of $1,400.0 million, and a 7 year term loan B facility of $1,000.0 million to fund a portion of the cash consideration paid as part of the AB merger. The remainder of the borrowing was used to pay for merger transaction costs, to facilitate normal operations, and to refinance the credit facility outstanding previous to the merger. The Credit Agreement requires the Company to meet certain financial covenants, including a maximum consolidated leverage ratio and minimum fixed charge ratio, and includes certain other restrictions, including restrictions limiting acquisitions, indebtedness, stock repurchases, capital expenditures and asset sales. The maximum leverage ratio reduces on a quarterly schedule to 3.00x by December 31, 2010. After December 31, 2010, the Companys leverage ratio cannot exceed 3.00x. The Company will be also be required to maintain a fixed charge coverage ratio of at least 1.75x. The Credit Agreement allows the Company to make certain investments and share repurchases, subject to restrictions based on leverage. If the Companys leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 3.00x, the Company may spend up to $500.0 million annually on acquisitions and share repurchases in any fiscal year. If the Companys leverage ratio less than 3.00x, there is no limit to investments in acquisitions. However, the Companys maximum share repurchases will be $500.0 million in any fiscal year. 37 Table of Contents Obligations under the Companys Credit Agreement may be declared immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of certain events of default as defined in the Credit Agreement, including failure to pay any principal when due and payable, failure to pay interest within three business days after due, failure to comply with any covenant, representation or condition of any loan document or swap contract, any change of control, cross defaults, and certain other events as set forth in the Credit Agreement, with grace periods in some cases. The Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by each of the Companys domestic subsidiaries and are collateralized by substantially all of the Companys and its guarantor subsidiaries assets. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants applicable to the Companys and its subsidiaries, subject to materiality and other qualifications and exceptions. Loans under the Credit Agreement bear interest based on the London Interbank Offering Rate (LIBOR) or, if the Company so elects, on Bank of Americas prime lending rate (the Base Rate). For the revolving credit facility and the term loan A, interest is computed based on the Companys leverage ratio as shown below: Revolving Credit Pricing Level Total Leverage Ratio LIBOR Rate Base Rate Commitment Fee 1 3.0:1 LIBOR + 2.50% Base Rate + 1.50% 0.500% 2 3.0:1 but 2.5:1 LIBOR + 2.25% Base Rate + 1.25% 0.375% 3 2.5:1 but 2.0:1 LIBOR + 2.00% Base Rate + 1.00% 0.375% 4 2.0:1 LIBOR + 1.50% Base Rate + 0.50% 0.250% Term loan B bears interest at LIBOR plus 3.00% subject to a minimum LIBOR rate of 3.00% for the first three years after the closing date, or, if the Company so elects, at Base Rate plus 2.00%. The Company entered into interest rate swaps with the notional amount of $1,000,0 million to to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates and to comply with Credit Agreement requirements. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the interest on the revolving credit facility and the term loan A was LIBOR plus 2.5% and the term loan B was at the Base Rate plus 2.0%, which resulted in aggregate cash interest payments of $95.3 million, net of hedging transactions. The Company must repay 2.5% in each quarter of 2010 and 2011, 3.75% in each quarter of 2012 and 15% in each quarter of 2012 with the final payment of all amounts outstanding under the term loan A facility, plus accrued interest, due on November 21, 2012. The Company must repay the remaining principal amount of the term loan B due on November 21, 2015. The revolving credit facility will terminate and all amounts outstanding hereunder, plus accrued interest, will be due on November 21, 2013. At December 31, 2009, The Company has issued $14.3 million in letters of credit through the revolving credit facility. The Company can prepay the term loans without penalty. The Company repaid principal of $70.0 million and $355.0 million for term loan A and term loan B, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009, of which $350.0 million for term loan B was for the early extinguishment of debt, which resulted in a write off of $12.5 million of unamortized deferred financing costs. Costs incurred to issue the debt under the credit facility totaled $43.8 million for term loan A, $41.3 million for term loan B, and $7.8 million for the revolving credit facility. The Company amortized debt issuance costs of $10.5 million, $4.0 million, and $1.6 million for term loan A, term loan B, and the revolving credit facility, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, the unamortized balances of the issuance costs were $32.4 million, $24.0 million, and $6.0 million for term loan A, term loan B, and the revolving credit facility, respectively. The Companys Credit Agreement requires the loans to be prepaid with a portion of the net cash proceeds of non ordinary course sales or other dispositions of property and assets and casualty proceeds, condemnation awards and certain other extraordinary receipts, subject to exceptions. The portion of such net cash proceeds to be applied to prepayments of loans will be determined based on our leverage ratio, with 100% to be applied if the leverage ratio is greater than or equal to 3.00x; 50% if the leverage ratio is less than 3.00x and greater than or equal to 2.50x; and 0% if the leverage ratio is less than 2.50x. Loans under the Credit Agreement will also be required to be prepaid with 100% of the net cash proceeds from the issuance or incurrence of new debt (other than certain debt permitted by the credit agreement). These mandatory prepayments will be applied to the repayment of the term facilities as the Company directs. At December 31, 2009, the Company is in compliance with all of its debt covenants. 38 Table of Contents In February 2010, the Company issued $1,500.0 million in unsecured bonds in which the proceeds were used to pay down the term loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Additionally, the Company sold its 50% investment stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technology Instruments joint venture for approximately $280.0 million in net cash proceeds after taxes, which was used to further pay down the term loans. The Company expects to use the combination of the proceeds from the bond offering and the joint venture sale to fully pay down the term loans. As a result of the early repayment, the Company will de designate and terminate the outstanding interest rate swaps as the underlying loans will no longer exist. The unsecured bonds will be fixed rate long term bonds with three, five and ten year maturity dates. The bond issuance will effectively refinance the outstanding debt, and therefore, the Company does not expect the net results of the transaction to materially impact future results from operation or cash flows. Refer to Note 14 related to subsequent events in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on the transaction. Secured Loan At December 31, 2009, the Company holds $34.8 million in auction rate securities with UBS Investment Bank (UBS). Beginning in February 2008, auctions failed for the Companys holdings because sell orders exceeded buy orders. As a result of the failed auctions, the Company is holding illiquid securities because the funds associated with these failed auctions will not be accessible until the issuer calls the security, a successful auction occurs, a buyer is found outside of the auction process, or the security matures. In August 2008, UBS announced that it has agreed to a settlement in principle with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other state regulatory agencies represented by North American Securities Administrators Association to restore liquidity to all remaining clients who hold auction rate securities. UBS committed to repurchase auction rate securities from their private clients at par beginning January 1, 2009. During the year ended December 31, 2009, UBS repurchased $0.8 million auction rate securities at par from the Company. The Company intends to have the settlement completed by July 2012. Until UBS fully redeems the Companys auction rate securities, UBS has provided a loan to the Company for the par value of the auction rate securities with the underlying auction rate securities as the collateral. The Company will be charged interest on the loan equal to the interest earned on the auction rate securities during this period. As a result, the Company has access to cash associated with these auction rate securities and does not believe there are liquidity concerns associated with these instruments. For information on auction rate securities, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Convertible Debt At December 31, 2009, the Company has classified the carrying value of $339.6 million on the 2% Convertible Senior Note (2023 Note) in current liabilities according to the respective indenture, which allows our Note holders to require the Company to purchase all or a portion of the Notes at par plus any accrued and unpaid interest at the earliest on August 1, 2010. In the event that the holders do not exercise such rights, the remaining balance of the Note will be reclassified back to long term debt. The Company anticipates making this payment with the use of cash on hand and cash generation from operating activities. On June 20, 2005, the Company sold 31/4% Convertible Senior Notes due 2025 (the 31/4% Notes) to certain qualified institutional investors at par value. Including the exercise of the over allotment option, the total size of the offering was $350.0 million. After expenses, net proceeds to the Company were $343.0 million. Interest is payable on the 31/4% Notes semi annually in arrears beginning December 15, 2005. In addition to the coupon interest of 3.25%, additional interest of 0.225% of the market value of the 31/4% Notes may be required to be paid per six month period beginning June 15, 2011, if the market value of the 31/4% Notes during a specified period is 120% or more of the 31/4% Notes principal value. The 31/4% Notes may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Companys option on or after June 15, 2011, at 100% of the principal amount plus any accrued and unpaid interest. In addition, the holders of the 31/4% Notes may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of the 31/4% Notes for 100% of the principal amount, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, on June 15, 2011, 2015 and 2020 or upon the occurrence of certain fundamental changes. Prepayment of amounts due under the 31/4% Notes will be accelerated in the event of bankruptcy or insolvency and may be accelerated by the trustee or holders of 25% of the 31/4% Notes principal value upon default of payment of principal or interest when due for over thirty days, the Companys default on its conversion or repurchase obligations, failure of the Company to comply with any of its 39 Table of Contents other agreements in the 31/4% Notes or indenture, or upon cross default by the Company or a significant subsidiary for failure to make a payment at maturity or the acceleration of other debt of the Company or a significant subsidiary, in either case exceeding $50.0 million. The terms of the 31/4% Notes require the Company to settle the par value of the 31/4% Notes in cash and deliver shares only for the excess, if any, of the conversion value (based on a conversion price of $49.13) over the par value. In February 2004 and August 2003, the Company issued $450.0 million principal amount of 11/2% Convertible Senior Notes (the Old 11/2% Notes) due February 15, 2024 and $350.0 million principal amount of 2% Convertible Senior Notes (the Old 2% Notes) due August 1, 2023 to certain qualified institutional buyers, respectively. After expenses, the Company received net proceeds of $440.1 million and $340.7 million for the Old 11/2% Notes and Old 2% Notes, respectively. Interest on the Old Notes was payable semi annually on February 15th and 1st and August 15th and 1st, for the Old 11/2% Notes and the Old 2% Notes, respectively. In addition to the coupon interest of 11/2% and 2%, additional interest of 0.35% of the market value of the Old Notes may have been required to be paid beginning February 15, 2012 and August 1, 2010, if the market value of the Old Notes during specified testing periods was 120% or more of the principle value, for the Old 11/2% Notes and the Old 2% Notes, respectively. This contingent interest feature was an embedded derivative with a de minimis value, to which no value had been assigned at issuance of either of the Old Notes or as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. The Old Notes were issued at 100% of principal value, and were convertible shares of common stock at the option of the holder, subject to certain conditions described below, at a price of $51.02 and $34.12 per share for the Old 11/2% Notes and Old 2% Notes, respectively. The Old Notes were to be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the Companys option on or after February 15, 2012 (for the Old 11/2% Notes) and August 1, 2010 (for the Old 2% Notes) at 100% of the principal amount. In addition, the holders of the Old Notes may require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of the Old Notes for 100% of the principal amount, plus accrued interest, on three separate dates per their issuance agreement. The Old Notes also contained restricted convertibility features that did not affect the conversion price of the notes but, instead, placed restrictions on the holders ability to convert their notes into shares of the Companys common stock (conversion shares). Holders were able to convert their Old Notes into shares of the Companys common stock prior to stated maturity. During December 2004, the Company offered up to $350.0 million aggregate principal amount of 2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023 (the New 2% Notes) in a non cash exchange for any and all outstanding Old 2% Notes, that were validly tendered on that date. Approximately 99% or $347.9 million of the Old 2% Notes have been exchanged by their holders for New 2% Notes as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, during December 2004, the Company offered up to $450.0 million aggregate principal amount of 11/2% Convertible Senior Notes due 2024 (the New 11/2% Notes) in a non cash exchange for any and all outstanding Old 11/2% Notes, that were validly tendered on that date. Approximately 99% or $446.5 million of the Old 11/2% Notes have been exchanged by their holders for New 11/2% Notes as of December 31, 2009. The New 2% Notes and New 11/2% Notes (collectively the New Notes) carry the same rights and attributes as the Old 2% Notes and Old 11/2% Notes (collectively the Old Notes) except for the following: the terms of the New Notes require the Company to settle the par value of such notes in cash and deliver shares only for the excess, if any, of the notes conversion value (based on conversion prices of $34.12 and $51.02 for the New 2% Notes and New 11/2% Notes, respectively) over their par values. As such, ASC Topic 470 20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options and ASC Topic 200, Earning Per Share required the Company to use the treasury stock equivalent method to calculate diluted earnings per share, as if the New Notes were outstanding since date of issuance, the date the Old Notes were issued. Costs incurred to issue the convertible notes totaled $7.6 million for the 31/4% Notes, $9.3 million for the Old 11/2% Notes, and $9.3 million for the Old 2% Notes. Finance costs (excluding legal and accounting fees) incurred to conduct the exchange of the Old Notes totaled $1.8 million ($0.8 million related to the Old 2% Notes and $1.0 million related to the Old 11/2% Notes). These costs have been deferred and included in other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized over the terms of the respective debt using the effective interest method. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the unamortized balances of the issuance costs were $4.6 million and $7.8 million, respectively. 40 Table of Contents In the event of a change of control of the Company, the holders of the 31/4% Notes, Old Notes and New Notes each have the right to require the Company to repurchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus all accrued and unpaid interest. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. Payments Due by Period(1) Less than Years Years More than 5 (in thousands) Total 1 Year 1 3 3 5 Years All Other(2) Convertible notes and other long term debt $ 1,220,551 $ 372,208 $ 848,343 $ $ $ Term loan A and term loan B(3) 2,298,875 214,228 484,310 924,106 676,231 Capital lease obligations 9,412 2,317 5,085 1,879 131 Operating lease obligations 262,668 45,945 64,176 46,941 105,606 Licensing and purchase obligations 89,013 78,609 5,167 3,378 1,859 Uncertain tax liability and interest(2) 114,222 16,162 98,060 Other obligations 8,629 3,113 2,953 1,731 832 Total $ 4,003,370 $ 732,582 $ 1,410,034 $ 978,035 $ 784,659 $ 98,060 (1) Pursuant to certain acquisitions, we could be required to make additional contingent cash payments based on percentages of future gross sales for products of acquired company, or technical milestones without the restriction of the payment deadline. (2) As of December 31, 2009, the Companys unrecognized tax benefits were $114.2 million. We were unable to reasonably estimate the timing of uncertain tax liabilities and interest payments in individual periods beyond twelve months due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions. (3) Term loan A and term loan B have variable interest rates. The weighted average interest rates of term loan A and term loan B have been used to calculate future estimated interest payments related to these items. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. In February 2010, the Company issued $1,500.0 million in unsecured bonds and the proceeds were used to pay down the existing term loans. See Note 14 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the discussion of subsequent events. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue Recognition. We derive our revenue from the sale of our products, services and technology. We recognize revenue from product sales upon transfer of title of the product or performance of services. Transfer of title generally occurs upon shipment to the customer. We generally ship to our customers FOB shipping point. Concurrently, we record provisions for warranty, returns, and installation based on historical experience and anticipated product performance. Revenue is not recognized at the time of shipment of products in situations where risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the customer at a point other than shipment due to the shipping terms, the existence of an acceptance clause, the achievement of milestones, or certain return or cancellation privileges. Revenue is recognized once customer acceptance occurs or the acceptance provisions lapse. Service revenue is recognized over the period services are performed. If our shipping policies or acceptance clause were to change, materially different reported results could occur. In cases where customers order and pay for products and request that we store a portion of their order for them at our cost, we record any material up front payments as deferred revenue in current or long term liabilities, depending on the length of the customer prepayment, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and recognize revenue upon shipment of the product to the customer. Deferred revenue, which includes customer prepayments and unearned service revenue, totaled $178.3 million at December 31, 2009. 41 Table of Contents We also enter into arrangements whereby revenues are derived from multiple deliverables. In these arrangements, we record revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. Specifically, we record revenue as the separate elements are delivered to the customer if the delivered item is determined to represent a separate earnings process, there is objective and reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item, and delivery or performance of the undelivered item is probable and substantially in our control. For instruments where installation is determined to be a separate earnings process, the portion of the sales price allocable to the fair value of the installation is deferred and recognized when installation is complete. We determine the fair value of the installation process based on technician labor billing rates, the expected number of hours to install the instrument based on historical experience, and amounts charged by third parties. We continually monitor the level of effort required for the installation of our instruments to ensure that appropriate fair values have been determined. Revenues from multiple element arrangements involving license fees, up front payments and milestone payments, which are received and or billable in connection with other rights and services that represent our continuing obligations, are deferred until all of the multiple elements have been delivered or until objective and verifiable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered elements has been established. We determine the fair value of each element in multiple element arrangements based on the prices charged when the similar elements are sold separately to third parties. If objective and verifiable evidence of fair value of all undelivered elements exists but objective and verifiable evidence of fair value does not exist for one or more delivered elements, then revenue is recognized using the residual method. Under the residual method, the revenues from delivered elements are not recognized until the fair value of the undelivered element or elements has been determined. Contract interpretation is normally required to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting for revenue recognition purposes, and if so, how the price should be allocated among the deliverable elements, when to begin to recognize revenue for each element, and the period over which revenue should be recognized. We recognize royalty revenue (including upfront licensing fees) when the amounts are earned and determinable during the applicable period based on historical activity, and make revisions for actual royalties received in the following quarter. Materially different reported results would be likely if any of the estimated royalty revenue were significantly different from actual royalties received, however, historically, these revisions have not been material to our consolidated financial statements. For those arrangements where royalties cannot be reasonably estimated, we recognize revenue on the receipt of cash or royalty statements from our licensees. Since we are not able to forecast product sales by licensees, royalty payments that are based on product sales by the licensees are not determinable until the licensee has completed their computation of the royalties due and or remitted their cash payment to us. In addition, we recognize up front nonrefundable license fees when due under contractual agreement, unless we have specific continuing performance obligations requiring deferral of all or a portion of these fees. If it cannot be concluded that a licensee fee is fixed or determinable at the outset of an arrangement, revenue is recognized as payments from third parties become due. Should information on licensee product sales become available so as to enable us to recognize royalty revenue on an accrual basis, materially different revenues and results of operations could occur. Royalty revenue totaled $122.4 million, $51.0 million and $39.9 million for 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Revenue recorded under proportional performance for projects in process is designed to approximate the amount of revenue earned based on percentage of efforts completed within the scope of the contractual arrangement. We undertake a review of these arrangements to determine the percentage of the work that has completed and the appropriate amount of revenue to recognize. Shipping and handling costs are included in costs of sales. Shipping and handling costs charged to customers is recorded as revenue in the period the related product sales revenue is recognized. Use of Estimates. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or GAAP. In preparing these statements, we are required to use estimates and assumptions. While we believe we have considered all available information, actual results could affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates, especially in light of the current economic environment. We believe that, of the 42 Table of Contents significant accounting policies discussed in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, the following accounting policies require our most difficult, subjective or complex judgments: Allowance for doubtful accounts. We provide a reserve against our receivables for estimated losses that may result from our customers inability to pay. We determine the amount of the reserve by analyzing known uncollectible accounts, aged receivables, economic conditions in the customers country or industry, historical losses and our customers credit worthiness. Amounts later determined specifically identified by management to be uncollectible are charged or written off against this reserve. To minimize the likelihood of uncollectibility, customers credit worthiness is reviewed periodically based on external credit reporting services and our experience with the account and adjusted accordingly. Should a customers account become past due, we generally place a hold on the account and discontinue further shipments to that customer, minimizing further risk of loss. Bad debt expense is recorded as necessary to maintain an appropriate level of allowance for doubtful accounts. Additionally, our policy is to fully reserve for all accounts with aged balances greater than one year, with certain exceptions determined necessary by management. The likelihood of a material loss on an uncollectible account would be mainly dependent on deterioration in the financial condition of that customer or in the overall economic conditions in a particular country or environment. Reserves are fully provided for all expected or probable losses of this nature. Gross trade accounts receivables totaled $601.9 million and the allowance for doubtful accounts was $10.8 million at December 31, 2009. Historically, the Companys reserves have been adequate to cover losses. Inventory adjustments. Inventories are stated at lower of cost or market. We review the components of our inventory on a regular basis for excess, obsolete and impaired inventory based on estimated future usage and sales. The Company generally fully reserves for stock levels in excess of one years expectation of usage. For those inventories not as susceptible to obsolescence, the Company provides reserves when the materials become spoiled or dated or specific to the inventory as determined by management. In the event of a lower cost or market issue arises, the Company will reserve for the value of the inventory in excess of current replacement cost. The likelihood of any material inventory write down is dependent on customer demand, competitive conditions or new product introductions by us or our competitors that vary from our current expectations. Gross inventory totaled $459.5 million and the allowance for excess and obsolete and price impairment was $106.3 million at December 31, 2009. Historically, the Companys reserve has been adequate to cover its losses. Valuation of goodwill. We are required to perform a review for impairment of goodwill in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. Goodwill is considered to be impaired if we determine that the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. In addition to the annual review, an interim review is required if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Examples of such events or circumstances include: a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate; a significant decline in our stock price or the stock price of comparable companies; a significant decline in our projected revenue or earnings growth or cash flows; an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; unanticipated competition; a loss of key personnel; a more likely than not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of; the testing for recoverability described under ASC Topic 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment of a significant asset group within a reporting unit; and recognition of a goodwill impairment loss in the financial statements of a subsidiary that is a component of a reporting unit. 43 Table of Contents Assessing the impairment of goodwill requires us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the fair value of the net assets of our reporting units. Additionally, since our reporting units share the majority of our assets, we must make assumptions and estimates in allocating the carrying value as well as the fair value of net assets to each reporting unit. Changes in the assumptions are considered in the analysis, and the Company performs an internal sensitivity analysis to further support the Companys assessment. In accordance with our policy, we completed our most recent annual evaluation for impairment of goodwill as of October 1, 2009 and determined that no goodwill impairment existed. In this analysis, it was determined that no reporting unit of the Company was at risk of impairment based on the current assessment. Our evaluation included management estimates of cash flow projections based on an internal strategic review. Key assumptions from this strategic review included revenue growth, future gross and operating margin growth, and the Companys weighted cost of capital. This revenue and margin growth was based on increased sales of new products as we expect to maintain our investment in research and development, the effect and growth from business acquisitions already consummated and lower selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue. Additional value creators assumed included increased efficiencies from capital spending. The resulting cash flows were discounted using a weighted average cost of capital of 10 percent. Operating mechanisms to ensure that these growth and efficiency assumptions will ultimately be realized was also considered in our evaluation. Our market capitalization at October 1, 2009 was also compared to the discounted cash flow analysis. We cannot guarantee our future annual or other periodic reviews for impairment of goodwill will not result in an impairment charge. Goodwill totaled $3,783.8 million at December 31, 2009. Valuation of intangible and other long lived assets. We periodically assess the carrying value of intangible and other long lived assets, including capitalized in process research and development, which require us to make assumptions and judgments regarding the future cash flows of these assets. The assets are considered to be impaired if we determine that the carrying value may not be recoverable based upon our assessment of the following events or changes in circumstances: the assets ability to continue to generate income from operations and positive cash flow in future periods; loss of legal ownership or title to the asset; significant changes in our strategic business objectives and utilization of the asset(s); and the impact of significant negative industry or economic trends. If the assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment we recognize is the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Fair value is determined by a combination of third party sources and discontinued cash flows. In addition, we base the useful lives and related amortization or depreciation expense on our estimate of the period that the assets will generate revenues or otherwise be used by the Company. We also periodically review the lives assigned to our intangible assets to ensure that our initial estimates do not exceed any revised estimated periods from which we expect to realize cash flows from the technologies. If a change were to occur in any of the above mentioned factors or estimates, the likelihood of a material change in our reported results would increase. At December 31, 2009, the net book value of identifiable intangible assets that are subject to amortization totaled $2,061.3 million, the net book value of unamortized identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives totaled $10.3 million and the net book value of property, plant and equipment totaled $829.0 million. Valuation of Financial Instruments. We account for our financial instruments at fair value based on ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures and ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. In determining fair value, we consider both the credit risk of our counterparties and our own creditworthiness. ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements for financial instruments. The framework requires for the valuation of investments using a three tiered approach in the valuation of investments. The Company reviews and evaluates the adequacy of the valuation techniques periodically. In the current year, there have not been any changes to the Companys valuation techniques. For details on the 44 Table of Contents assets and liabilities subject to fair value measurements and the related valuation techniques used, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. A derivative is an instrument whose value is derived from an underlying instrument or index, such as interest rates, equity securities, currencies, commodities or credit spreads. Derivatives include futures, forwards, swaps, or option contracts, or other financial instruments with similar characteristics. Derivative contracts often involve future commitments to exchange interest payment streams or currencies based on a notional or contractual amount (e.g., interest rate swaps or currency forwards). The accounting for changes in fair value of a derivative instrument depends on the nature of the derivative and whether the derivative qualifies as a hedging instrument in accordance with ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. Those hedging instruments that qualify for hedge accounting are included as an adjustment to revenue or interest expense, depending upon the component of foreign currency risk the Company is hedging for. Those hedges that do not qualify for hedging accounting are included in non operating income as investment activities. Materially different reported results would be likely if volatility of the currency markets was different, or the Companys revenue forecasts were significantly different from actual. Joint Venture. As part of the acquisition of Applied Biosystems, the Company acquired a joint venture, Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments, in which the Company is a 50% owner. The Company accounts for its investment in the joint venture using the equity method, consistent with the guidance in ASC Topic 323 Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures, based on the circumstances where the Company is unable to unilaterally influence the operating or financial decisions of the investee, shares in the risks and rewards of all related business activities and the joint venture is a stand alone legal entity. The Companys portion of net income as a result of equity in the joint venture was $20.3 million for the period ended December 31, 2009. Our share of earnings or losses from its investment is shown in other income in Consolidated Statements of Operations as a single amount in accordance with ASC Topic 323 Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures. The Company accounts for non operating and stand alone assets and liabilities, which includes goodwill and intangibles associated with the acquisition, of the joint venture in the long term investment line in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Due to the nature of the joint venture, with sales, distribution and service commingled with the Companys operations, operating assets and liabilities specifically related to the joint venture are commingled or inseparable. As a result, for operating assets and liabilities the Company records these assets in the functional operating asset and liability classifications which represent the underlying asset or liability and does not record these assets or liabilities in the long term investment account. The Company accounts for its net investment in the equity of the joint venture under the equity method as one line item under long term investments. In September 2009, the Company announced a signed definitive agreement to sell its 50% ownership stake in the Applied Biosystems/MDS Analytical Technologies Instruments joint venture and all assets related to the Companys mass spectrometry business to Danaher Corporation for $450.0 million in cash, subject to a conventional working capital adjustment. Included in the sale of the mass spectrometry business is the ownership stake in the joint venture as well as selected assets and liabilities directly attributable to the mass spectrometry business. The disposition of the joint venture generated approximately $280.0 million in net cash proceeds after taxes and the Company intends to use such proceeds to further pay down debt. The transaction closed on January 29, 2010. For information on our business combination accounting, see Note 2 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements and Note 14 for the discussion of subsequent events. Allocation of Purchase Price to Acquired Assets and Liabilities in Business Combinations. The cost of an acquired business is assigned to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the basis of their fair values at the date of acquisition. We assess fair value, which is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, using a variety of methods including an income approach such as a present value technique or a cost approach such as the estimation of current selling prices and replacement values. Fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, including intangible assets, in process research and development (IPRD), and contingent payments, are measured based on the assumptions and estimations with regards to the variable factors such as the amount and timing of future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, appropriate risk adjusted discount rates, nonperformance risk, or other factors that market participants would 45 Table of Contents consider. Upon acquisition, we determine the estimated economic lives of the acquired intangible assets for amortization purposes, which are based on the underlying expected cash flows of such assets or per the Company policy. Adjustments to inventory are based on the fair market value of inventory and amortized into income based on the period in which the underlying inventory is sold. Goodwill is an asset representing the future economic benefits arising from other assets acquired in a business combination that are not individually identified and separately recognized. Actual results may vary from projected results. Accrued merger and restructuring related costs. To the extent that exact amounts are not determinable, we have estimated amounts for direct costs of our acquisitions, merger related expenses and liabilities related to our business combinations and restructurings in accordance with ASC Topic 420, Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations and Emerging Issues Task Force Issue 95 3, Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination (EITF 95 3) in conjunction with the merger with Applied Biosystems and other acquisitions consummated prior to January 1, 2009. Our accrued merger and restructuring related costs were $26.5 million at December 31, 2009, the majority of which we expect to pay during 2010. Effective January 1, 2009, in the event the Company incurs the direct and indirect costs related to business combinations and related restructurings, the Company will expense such cost in the periods in which the cost is incurred. Materially different reported results would be likely if any of the estimated costs or expenses were significantly different from actual or if the approach, timing and extent of the restructuring plans adopted by management were different. Litigation reserves. Estimated amounts for claims that are probable and can be reasonably estimated are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The likelihood of a material change in these estimated reserves would be dependent on new claims as they may arise and the favorable or unfavorable outcome of the particular litigation. Both the amount and range of loss on pending litigation is uncertain. As such, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the liability that could result from unfavorable outcomes in litigation. As additional information becomes available, we will assess the potential liability related to our pending litigation and revise our estimates. Such revisions in our estimates of the potential liability could materially impact our results of operations and financial position. Insurance, environmental and divestiture reserves. We maintain self insurance reserves to cover potential property, casualty and workers compensation exposures from current operations and certain former business operations of Applied Biosystems and Dexter Corporation which were acquired in 2008 and 2000, respectively. These reserves are based on loss probabilities and take into account loss history as well as projections based on industry statistics. We also maintain environmental reserves to cover estimated costs for certain environmental exposures assumed in the mergers with Applied Biosystems and Dexter Corporation. The environmental reserves, which are not discounted, are determined by management based upon currently available information. Divestiture reserves are maintained for known claims and warranties assumed in the merger with Dexter Corporation. The product liability and warranty reserves are based on management estimates that consider historical claims. As actual losses and claims become known to us, we may need to make a material change in our estimated reserves, which could also materially impact our results of operations. Our insurance, environmental and divestiture reserves totaled $11.3 million at December 31, 2009. Benefit and pension plans. We sponsor and manage several retirement and health plans for employees and former employees, and nonqualified supplemental benefit plans for select domestic employees. A majority of the Companys current employees do not participate in these plans. Accounting and reporting for the pension plans requires the use of assumptions for discount rates, expected returns on plan assets and rates of compensation increase that are used by our actuaries to determine our liabilities and annual expenses for these plans in addition to the value of the plan assets included in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the period ended December 31, 2009, the weighted average discount rates we used to determine the benefit obligation were 6.00%, 5.28%, and 5.60% for domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. The weighted average discount rates we used to determine the net periodic pension cost were 5.75%, 5.10%, and 5.90% for domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. The weighted average long term rates of expected return on plan assets were a range of 5.75% to 8.00%, 5.27%, and 8.00% for domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. Our actuaries also rely on assumptions, such as mortality rates, in preparing their estimates for us. The liabilities for the pension plans and postretirement plans are generally determined 46 Table of Contents using the unit credit method, which is to expense each participants benefit under the plan as they accrue. The discount rate is derived by using the yield curve consists of spot interest rates at 1/2 year increments for each of the next 30 years based on pricing and yield information for high quality corporate bonds to have the present value of the pension or postretirement benefit cash flows discounted by such yield curve matches the pension liabilities as of the measurement date. The rate of expected return on plan assets is an expected weighted average rate of earnings on the funds, which is a blended rate of historical returns and forward looking capital market assumptions over next 20 years adjusted by taking into account the benefits of diversification and rebalancing of the funds. The likelihood of materially different valuations for assets, liabilities or expenses, would depend on interest rates, investment returns, actual non investment experience or actuarial assumptions that are different from our current expectations. For 2010, the Company does not expect to have to fund our qualified pension plans as these plans are sufficiently funded such that contributions for 2010 are not required. Our supplemental plans are unfunded, however, we have assets in a rabbi trust which the assets may be used to pay certain non qualified plan benefits. The postretirement medial benefit plan the Company assumed in conjunction with the acquisition of Dexter is fully funded, and thus, no additional funding is expected for 2010. The Company has other postretirement plans which are unfunded, however, they are substantially funded by insurance policies. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company contributed $25.8 million, $10.2 million, and $6.3 million to domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans, respectively. The aggregate current liabilities relate to our domestic, foreign, and postretirement plans were $23.5 million, $1.3 million, and $5.1 million, respectively at December 31, 2009. Our most significant pension plan is a qualified domestic pension plan, which constituted approximately 82% of our consolidated pension plan assets and approximately 72% of our projected benefit obligations as of December 31, 2009. The accrual of future service benefits for participants in the qualified domestic pension plan were frozen as of June 30, 2004. Effective in July 1, 2005, the expected rate of compensation increase was no longer factored into the determination of our net periodic pension expense as the accrual for future service benefits was frozen. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the discount rate for our qualified domestic pension plans for the period ended December 31, 2009 would decrease or increase our net periodic pension expense by approximately $0.3 million. Also, a one percentage point increase or decrease in the expected rate of return on our pension assets for the period ended December 31, 2009 would decrease or increase our net periodic pension expense by approximately $0.3 million. Actual weighted average allocation of our plan assets or valuation of our plan assets and benefit obligations may fluctuate significantly year over year. These fluctuations can be caused by conditions unrelated to our actuarial assumptions, including shifts the global economic environment, market performance and plan funding status. Unexpected unrealized gains or losses in the plan assets or benefit obligation are reflected in other comprehensive income in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and amortized into income over the expected plan lives. Income taxes. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many transactions for which the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties arise as a consequence of intercompany arrangements to share revenue and costs. In such arrangements there are uncertainties about the amount and manner of such sharing, which could ultimately result in changes once the arrangements are reviewed by taxing authorities. Although we believe that our approach to determining the amount of such arrangements is reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final resolution of these matters will not be materially different than reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a material effect on our income tax provisions or benefits in the period in which such determination is made. Valuation allowances are established, when necessary, to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. The likelihood of a material change in our expected realization of these assets depends on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. Our ability to generate enough taxable income to utilize our deferred tax assets depends on many factors, among which are our ability to deduct tax loss carryforwards 47 Table of Contents against future taxable income, the effectiveness of our tax planning strategies, reversing deferred tax liabilities, changes in the deductibility of interest paid on our convertible subordinated debt and any significant changes in the tax treatment received on our business combinations. We believe that our deferred tax assets, net of our valuation allowance, should be realizable due to our estimate of future profitability in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, as applicable. Subsequent revisions to estimates of future taxable profits and losses and tax planning strategies could change the amount of the deferred tax asset we would be able to realize in the future, and therefore could increase or decrease the valuation allowance. ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes defines the confidence level that a tax position must meet in order to be recognized in the financial statements. In accordance, we regularly assess uncertain tax positions in each of the tax jurisdictions in which we have operations and account for the related financial statement implications. Unrecognized tax benefits have been reported in accordance with ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes two step approach under which the tax effect of a position is recognized only if it is more likely than not to be sustained and the amount of the tax benefit recognized is equal to the largest tax benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement of the tax position. Determining the appropriate level of unrecognized tax benefits requires us to exercise judgment regarding the uncertain application of tax law. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted when information becomes available or when an event occurs indicating a change is appropriate. Future changes in unrecognized tax benefits requirements could have a material impact on our results of operations. Segment Information. In connection with the acquisition of AB and the resulting reorganization, the Company has determined in accordance with ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting to operate as one operating segment. The Company believes our chief operating decision maker (CODM) makes decisions based on the Company as a whole. In addition, the Company shares the common basis of organization, types of products and services which derive revenues, and the economic environments. Accordingly, we believe it is appropriate to operate as one reporting segment. The Company will disclose the revenues for each of its internal divisions to allow the reader of the financial statements the ability to gain transparency into the operations of the Company. We have restated historical divisional revenue information to conform to the current year presentation. Share Based Compensation. We grant share based awards to eligible employees and directors to purchase shares of our common stock. In addition, we have a qualified employee stock purchase plan in which eligible employees from legacy Invitrogen and legacy AB may elect to withhold up to 15% and 10%, respectively, of their compensation to purchase shares of our common stock on a quarterly basis at a discounted price equal to 85% of the lower of the employees offering price or the closing price of the stock on the date of purchase. The benefits provided by these plans qualify as share based compensation under the provisions of ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation, which requires us to recognize compensation expense based on their estimated fair values determined on the date of grant for all share based awards granted, and the cumulative expense is adjusted by modified or cancelled shares subsequently. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we recognized $36.8 million and $23.3 million of compensation expense for employee stock options and purchase rights and restricted stock units, respectively. At December 31, 2009, there was $47.2 million and $51.2 million remaining in unrecognized compensation cost related to employee stock options and restricted stock units, respectively, which are expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.8 years and 2.3 years for employee stock options and restricted stock units, respectively. We estimate the fair value of share based awards on the date of grant using the Black Scholes option pricing method (Black Scholes method). The determination of fair value of share based awards using an option pricing model requires the use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of share based compensation cost recognized in our Consolidated Statements of Income. These include estimates of the expected term of share based awards, expected volatility of our stock price, expected dividends and the risk free interest rate. These estimates and assumptions are highly subjective and may result in materially different amounts should circumstances change and we employ different assumptions in our application of ASC Topic 718, Compensation Stock Compensation in future periods. 48 Table of Contents For share based awards issued during the year ended December 31, 2009, we estimated the expected term by considering various factors including the vesting period of options granted, employees historical exercise and post employment termination behavior and aggregation by homogeneous employee groups. Our estimated volatility was derived using a combination of our historical stock price volatility and the implied volatility of market traded options of our common stock with terms of up to approximately two years. Our decision to use a combination of historical and implied volatility was based upon the availability of actively traded options of our common stock and our assessment that such a combination was more representative of future expected stock price trends. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and currently do not anticipate paying such cash dividends. We currently anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development and expansion of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, financial covenants, tax laws and other factors as the Board of Directors, in its discretion, deems relevant. The risk free interest rate is based upon United States Treasury securities with remaining terms similar to the expected term of the share based awards. Product Warranties. We accrue warranty costs for product sales at the time of shipment based on historical experience as well as anticipated product performance. Our product warranties extend over a specified period of time ranging up to two years from the date of sale depending on the product subject to warranty. The product warranty accrual covers parts and labor for repairs and replacements covered by our product warranties. We periodically review the adequacy of our warranty reserve, and adjust, if necessary, the warranty percentage and accrual based on actual experience and estimated costs to be incurred. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS For information on the recent accounting pronouncements impacting our business, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates, and we selectively use financial instruments to manage these risks. We do not enter into financial instruments for speculation or trading purposes. These financial exposures are monitored and managed by us as an integral part of our overall risk management program, which recognizes the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to reduce potentially adverse effects on our results. Foreign Currency We translate the financial statements of each foreign subsidiary with a functional currency other than the United States dollar into the United States for consolidation using end of period exchange rates for assets and liabilities and average exchange rates during each reporting period for results of operations. Net gains or losses resulting from the translation of foreign financial statements and the effect of exchange rate changes on intercompany receivables and payables of a long term investment nature are recorded as a separate component of stockholders equity. These adjustments will affect net income only upon sale or liquidation of the underlying investment in foreign subsidiaries. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates can affect our reported results of operations, which are reported in United States dollars. Based on the foreign currency rate in effect at the time of the translation of our foreign operations into United States dollars, reported results could be different from prior periods even if the same amount and mix of our products were sold at the same local prices during the two periods. This will affect our reported results of operations and also makes the comparison of our business performance in two periods more difficult. For example, our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, were approximately $3,280.3 million using applicable foreign currency exchange rates for that period. However, applying the foreign currency exchange rates in effect during the year ended December 31, 2008 to our revenues generated by foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency differ from the United States dollars for 2009 when including the results of our hedging program would result in approximately $39.0 million more revenue for that period. These changes in currency 49 Table of Contents exchange rates have affected and will continue to affect, our reported results, including our revenues, revenue growth rates, gross margins, income and losses as well as assets and liabilities. Foreign Currency Transactions We have operations through legal entities in Europe, Asia Pacific and the Americas. As a result, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows can be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $409.2 million of accounts receivable and $41.0 million of accounts payable, respectively, denominated in a foreign currency. The Company has accounts receivables and payables denominated in both the functional currency of the legal entity as well as receivables and payables denominated in a foreign currency that differs from the functional currency of the legal entity. For receivables and payables denominated in the legal entitys functional currency, the Company does not have financial statement risk, and therefore does not hedge such transactions. For those receivables and payables denominated in a currency that differs from the functional currency of the legal entity, the Company hedges such transactions to prevent financial statement risk. As a result, a hypothetical movement in foreign currency rates would not be expected to have a material financial statement impact on the settlement of these outstanding receivables and payables. Both realized and unrealized gains or losses on the value of these receivables and payables were included in other income and expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Net currency exchange gains and (losses) recognized on business transactions, net of hedging transactions, were $(9.0) million, $8.3 million and $0.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and are included in other income and expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. These gains and losses arise from the timing of cash collections compared to the hedged transactions, which can vary based on timing of actual customer payments. The Companys intercompany foreign currency receivables and payables are primarily concentrated in the euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar and Japanese yen. Historically, we have used foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk on these intercompany foreign currency receivables and payables. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, the Company had a notional principal amount of $1,497.9 million and $740.5 million, respectively, in foreign currency forward contracts outstanding to hedge currency risk on specific intercompany and the third party receivables and payables denominated in a currency that differs from the legal entitys functional currency. These foreign currency forward contracts as of December 31, 2009, which settle in January 2010 through May 2010, effectively fix the exchange rate at which these specific receivables and payables will be settled, so that gains or losses on the forward contracts offset the losses or gains from changes in the value of the underlying receivables and payables. The Company does not have any material un hedged foreign currency intercompany receivables or payables at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Refer to Note 1 Financial Instruments in the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Companys hedging programs. The notional principal amounts provide one measure of the transaction volume outstanding as of period end, but do not represent the amount of our exposure to market loss. In many cases, outstanding principal amounts offset assets and liabilities and the Companys exposure is less than the notional amount. The estimates of fair value are based on applicable and commonly used pricing models using prevailing financial market information. The amounts ultimately realized upon settlement of these financial instruments, together with the gains and losses on the underlying exposures, will depend on actual market conditions during the remaining life of the instruments. Cash Flow Hedges The ultimate United States dollar value of future foreign currency sales generated by our reporting units is subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The Companys intent is to limit this exposure from changes in currency exchange rates through hedging. When the dollar strengthens significantly against the foreign currencies, the decline in the United States dollar value of future foreign currency revenue is offset by gains in the value of the forward contracts designated as hedges. Conversely, when the dollar weakens, the opposite occurs. The Company uses foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate foreign currency risk on forecasted foreign currency sales which are expected to be settled within next twelve months. The change in fair value prior to their maturity was accounted for as cash flow hedges, and recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets according to ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. To the extent any portion of the forward 50 Table of Contents contracts is determined to not be an effective hedge, the increase or decrease in value prior to the maturity was recorded in other income or expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, the Company recognized immaterial net losses related to the ineffective portion of its hedging instruments in other expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. No hedging relationships were terminated as a result of ineffective hedging or forecasted transactions no longer probable of occurring. The Company continually monitors the probability of forecasted transactions as part of the hedge effectiveness testing. At December 31, 2009, the Company had a notional principal amount of $689.1 million in foreign currency forward contracts outstanding to hedge foreign currency revenue risk under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, and the fair value of foreign currency forward contracts is reported in other current assets or other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as appropriate. The Company reclasses deferred gains or losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income into revenue when the underlying foreign currency sales occur and are recognized in consolidated earnings. The Company uses inventory turnover ratio for each international operating unit to align the timing of a hedged item and a hedging instrument to impact the Consolidated Statements of Operations during the same reporting period. At December 31, 2009, the Company expects to reclass $7.5 million of net losses on derivative instruments from accumulated other comprehensive income to earnings during the next twelve months. At December 31, 2009, a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency rates against the United States dollar would result in a decrease or an increase of $57.0 million in the fair value of foreign currency derivatives accounted for under cash flow hedges. Actual gains or losses could differ materially from this analysis based on changes in the timing and amount of currency rate movements. Commodity Prices Our exposure to commodity price changes relates to certain manufacturing operations that utilize certain commodities as raw materials. We manage our exposure to changes in those prices primarily through our procurement and sales practices. Interest Rates Our investment portfolio is maintained in accordance with our investment policy which defines allowable investments, specifies credit quality standards and limits the credit exposure of any single issuer. The fair value of our cash equivalents, marketable securities, and derivatives is subject to change as a result of changes in market interest rates and investment risk related to the issuers credit worthiness or our own credit risk. The Company uses credit default swap spread to derive risk adjusted discount rate to measure the fair value of some of our financial instruments. At December 31, 2009, we had $1,028.2 million in cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, short term investments and long term investments, all of which approximated the fair value. Changes in market interest rates would not be expected to have a material impact on the fair value of $648.1 million of our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, and short term investments at December 31, 2009, as these consisted of highly liquid securities with short term maturities. The Company accounts for $337.4 million of its long term investment in the joint venture under the equity method and $8.0 million of its long term investments in non publicly traded companies under the cost method, thus, changes in market interest rates would not be expected to have an impact on these investments. Gain or losses from the changes in market interest rates in our other long term investment of $34.8 million would not be material. See Note 1 in our Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2009, the Companys debt portfolio was comprised of a combination of fixed and variable rate borrowings. At issue date of November 2008, all of term loan A and term loan B was subject to variable interest rates. In January 2009, as required by the Credit Agreement and to mitigate interest rate risk and resulting cash flow variability, the Company entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted its variable rate interest payments to fixed rate interest payments for $1,000.0 million of the term loan A principal The interest rate swap agreements are expected to settle in two parts, $300.0 million maturing in January 2012 and $700.0 million maturing in January 2013. Without the swap agreements, a hypothetical increase in the underlying borrowing rate (LIBOR or base rate) of 100 basis points would have changed interest payments on term loan A by 13.3 million and on term loan B by $6.4 million, based on each loans principal balance at December 31, 2009, respectively. However, as a result of these swap agreements, the Company reduced the amount of term loan A principal subject to interest rate risk to only $330.0 million. With the swap agreements in place, an increase in the underlying borrowing 51 Table of Contents rate of 100 basis points would increase interest payments on term loan A by $3.3 million. The changes in fair value prior to their maturity of each interest rate swap agreement are accounted for as cash flow hedges, and recorded in other comprehensive income, net of tax, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets according to ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. To the extent any portion of the swap agreements is determined to not be an effective hedge, the increase or decrease in value prior to the maturity was recorded in other income or expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During the year ended December 31, 2009, there was no recognized gain or loss related to the ineffective portion of its hedging instruments in other income or expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. No hedging relationships were terminated as a result of ineffective hedging or forecasted transactions no longer probable of occurring. The Company continuously monitors the probability of forecasted and outstanding transactions as part of the hedge effectiveness testing. Fair Value Measurements ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures requires certain financial and non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value using a three tiered approach. The assets and liabilities which used level 3 or significant unobservable inputs to measure the fair value represent an insignificant portion of total Companys financial positions at December 31, 2009. $19.1 million was transferred out of level 3 for the year ended December 31, 2009, of which $5.4 million was due to the impairment of our holdings in the Reserve Primary Money Market Fund (Fund), $12.9 million was due to aggregate distributions of the Fund, and $0.8 million was the settlements on auction rate securities with UBS. The Company already received all expected distribution from the Fund and a cash loan for the value of the auction rate securities from UBS and therefore does not believe there is any credit risk on these investments. For further discussion on the Companys fair value measurements and valuation methodologies, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company does not have any material off balance sheet arrangements. For further discussion on the Companys commitments and contingencies, refer to Note 6 Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk See discussion under Market Risk in Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 52 Table of Contents 
 
