FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20021127125628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 14, 2002 ------------------- ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. ------------------------------------------------------ (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-12107 31-1469076 - -------------- ---------------- ------------------ (State or other (Commission File (IRS Employer jurisdiction of Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 6301 Fitch Path, New Albany, Ohio 43054 --------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (614) 283-6500 ---------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable ------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS AND REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE. On November 14, 2002, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Company") and its subsidiary Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. ("A&F Management") entered into a new Credit Agreement (the "New Credit Agreement") among A&F Management, as Borrower, the Company, as Guarantor, the Lenders party thereto, and National City Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lead Arranger. The New Credit Agreement relates to a syndicated unsecured revolving credit facility under which up to $250 million will be available and replaces both the Credit Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1998 (the "Prior Credit Agreement"), under which $150 million of unsecured revolving credit had been available and a separate $75 million facility for the issuance of trade letters of credit. The New Credit Agreement is filed with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 4.1. The primary purposes of the New Credit Agreement are for trade and stand-by letters of credit and working capital. The New Credit Agreement is due to expire on November 14, 2005. The New Credit Agreement has several borrowing options, including interest rates that are based on the agent bank's "Alternate Base Rate" or a LIBO Rate (in each case, as defined in the New Credit Agreement). Facility fees payable under the New Credit Agreement are based on the ratio, on a consolidated basis ("leverage ratio"), of (a) the sum of total debt plus 800% of forward minimum rent commitments to (b) consolidated EBITDAR (as defined in the New Credit Agreement) for the trailing four-fiscal-quarter period. The New Credit Agreement contains limitations on indebtedness, liens, sale-leaseback transactions, significant corporate changes including mergers and acquisitions with third parties, investments, restricted payments (including dividends and stock repurchases), hedging transactions and transactions with affiliates. The New Credit Agreement also contains financial covenants requiring a minimum ratio, on a consolidated basis, of EBITDAR for the trailing four-fiscal-quarter period to the sum of interest expense and minimum rent for such period as well as a maximum leverage ratio. As of November 14, 2002, there had been no amounts outstanding under the Prior Credit Agreement. Letters of credit covering an aggregate amount of approximately $44.2 million were transferred to the New Credit Agreement. The obligations of A&F Management under the New Credit Agreement are guaranteed by the Company and the Company's direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries other than A&F Management. A copy of the Guarantee Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2002, is filed with this Form 8-K as Exhibit 4.2. -2-
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (a) and (b) Not applicable. (c) EXHIBITS: EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION 4.1 Credit Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2002, among Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., as Borrower, Abercrombie & Fitch Co., as Guarantor, the Lenders party thereto, and National City Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lead Arranger (the "Credit Agreement") 4.2 Guarantee Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2002, among Abercrombie & Fitch Co., each direct and indirect domestic subsidiary of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. other than Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., and National City Bank, as administrative agent for the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement [Remainder of page intentionally left blank; signature on following page.] -3-
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. Dated: November 26, 2002 By: /s/ Wesley S. McDonald --------------------------------------- Wesley S. McDonald Vice President-Chief Financial Officer -4-
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Current Report on Form 8-K Dated November 26, 2002 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION 4.1 Credit Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2002, among Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., as Borrower, Abercrombie & Fitch Co., as Guarantor, the Lenders party thereto, and National City Bank, as Administrative Agent and Lead Arranger (the "Credit Agreement") 4.2 Guarantee Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2002, among Abercrombie & Fitch Co., each direct and indirect domestic subsidiary of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. other than Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., and National City Bank, as administrative agent for the Lenders party to the Credit Agreement -5-

Exhibit 4.1 CONFORMED COPY CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of November 14, 2002 among ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MANAGEMENT CO. as Borrower ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. as Guarantor The Lenders Party Hereto and NATIONAL CITY BANK as Administrative Agent and Lead Arranger
TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS Section 1.01. Defined Terms.................................................1 Section 1.02. Classification of Loans and Borrowings.......................18 Section 1.03. Terms Generally..............................................18 Section 1.04. Accounting Terms; GAAP.......................................18 ARTICLE II THE CREDITS Section 2.01. Commitments..................................................19 Section 2.02. Loans and Borrowings.........................................19 Section 2.03. Requests for Revolving Borrowings............................19 Section 2.04. Swingline Loans..............................................20 Section 2.05. Letters of Credit............................................21 Section 2.06. Funding of Borrowings........................................26 Section 2.07. Interest Elections...........................................26 Section 2.08. Termination and Reduction of Commitments.....................28 Section 2.09. Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.........................28 Section 2.10. Prepayment of Loans..........................................29 Section 2.11. Fees.........................................................30 Section 2.12. Interest ....................................................31 Section 2.13. Alternate Rate of Interest...................................33 Section 2.14. Increased Costs..............................................33 Section 2.15. Break Funding Payments.......................................34 Section 2.16. Taxes........................................................35 Section 2.17. Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of Set-offs..36 Section 2.18. Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders...............38 Section 2.19. Increase in Revolving Credit Commitments.....................39 ARTICLE III REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES Section 3.01. Organization; Powers.........................................40 Section 3.02. Authorization; Enforceability................................40 Section 3.03. Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.........................41 Section 3.04. Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change..............41 Section 3.05. Properties...................................................41 Section 3.06. Litigation and Environmental Matters.........................41
Section 3.07. Compliance with Laws and Agreements..........................42 Section 3.08. Investment and Holding Company Status........................42 Section 3.09. Taxes........................................................42 Section 3.10. ERISA........................................................42 Section 3.11. Disclosure...................................................42 Section 3.12. Subsidiaries.................................................43 ARTICLE IV CONDITIONS Section 4.01. Effective Date...............................................43 Section 4.02. Each Credit Event............................................44 ARTICLE V AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS Section 5.01. Financial Statements and Other Information...................45 Section 5.02. Notices of Material Events...................................46 Section 5.03. Existence; Conduct of Business...............................46 Section 5.04. Payment of Obligations.......................................47 Section 5.05. Maintenance of Properties; Insurance.........................47 Section 5.06. Books and Records; Inspection Rights.........................47 Section 5.07. Compliance with Laws.........................................47 Section 5.08. Use of Proceeds and Letters of Credit........................47 Section 5.09. Additional Subsidiaries; Guarantee Requirement...............47 ARTICLE VI NEGATIVE COVENANTS Section 6.01. Indebtedness.................................................48 Section 6.02. Liens........................................................49 Section 6.03. Sale-Leaseback Transactions..................................50 Section 6.04. Fundamental Changes..........................................50 Section 6.05. Investments, Loans, Advances, Guarantees and Acquisitions....51 Section 6.06. Swap Agreements..............................................51 Section 6.07. Restricted Payments..........................................52 Section 6.08. Transactions with Affiliates.................................53 Section 6.09. Restrictive Agreements.......................................53 Section 6.10. Leverage Ratio...............................................53 Section 6.11. Coverage Ratio...............................................53 Section 6.12. Accounting Changes...........................................53
ARTICLE VII EVENTS OF DEFAULT ARTICLE VIII THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS Section 9.01. Notices......................................................58 Section 9.02. Waivers; Amendments..........................................59 Section 9.03. Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver...........................60 Section 9.04. Successors and Assigns.......................................61 Section 9.05. Survival.....................................................64 Section 9.06. Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.....................64 Section 9.07. Severability.................................................65 Section 9.08. Right of Setoff..............................................65 Section 9.09. Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Venue; Consent to Service of Process................................65 Section 9.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.........................................66 Section 9.11. Headings.....................................................66 Section 9.12. Confidentiality..............................................66 Section 9.13. Interest Rate Limitation.....................................67 SCHEDULES: Schedule 2.01 -- Commitments Schedule 2.05 -- Existing Letters of Credit Schedule 3.06 -- Disclosed Matters Schedule 3.12 -- Subsidiaries Schedule 6.01 -- Existing Indebtedness Schedule 6.02 -- Existing Liens Schedule 6.09 -- Existing Restrictions EXHIBITS: Exhibit A - Form of Assignment and Assumption Exhibit B - Form of Borrowing Request Exhibit C - Form of Interest Election Request Exhibit D - Form of Opinion of Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease, counsel to the Borrower Exhibit E - Guarantee Agreement
CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of November 14, 2002, among ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MANAGEMENT CO., a Delaware corporation, ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO., a Delaware corporation, the LENDERS party hereto, and NATIONAL CITY BANK, as Administrative Agent. The parties hereto agree as follows: ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS Section 1.01. DEFINED TERMS. As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below: "ABR", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, indicates that such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing or are to bear interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate. "ADDITIONAL CREDIT ASSUMPTION AGREEMENT" means an additional credit assumption agreement, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and one or more Additional Credit Lenders. "ADDITIONAL CREDIT COMMITMENTS" means the Commitment of any Lender, established pursuant to Section 2.19, to make Loans to the Borrower. "ADDITIONAL CREDIT LENDERS" means a Lender with Additional Credit Commitments. "ADJUSTED TOTAL DEBT" means, at any time, the sum of (a) Total Debt plus (b) 800% of Forward Minimum Rent Commitments. "ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT" means NCB, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder. "ADMINISTRATIVE QUESTIONNAIRE" means an administrative questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent. "AFFILIATE" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified. "ALTERNATE BASE RATE" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day or (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and
2 including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively. "APPLICABLE MARGIN" means, for any day, with respect to any Eurodollar Revolving Loan, with respect to the Facility Fees payable hereunder, or with respect to the Utilization Fees payable hereunder, as the case may be, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "Eurodollar Revolving Loans Margin", "Facility Fee Rate" or "Utilization Fee Rate", as the case may be, based upon the Leverage Ratio for the most recent determination date: For purposes of the foregoing, (i) the Leverage Ratio shall be determined as of the end of each fiscal quarter of the Parent's fiscal year based upon the Parent's consolidated financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b) and (ii) each change in the Applicable Margin resulting from a change in the Leverage Ratio shall be effective during the period commencing on and including the date of delivery to the Administrative Agent of such consolidated financial statements indicating such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change; PROVIDED that the Leverage Ratio shall be deemed to be in Level V (A) at any time that an Event of Default has occurred and has been continuing for 15 days and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower or (B) subject to the Administrative Agent's discretion, if the Parent fails to deliver the consolidated financial statements required to be delivered by it pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b), during the period from the expiration of the time for delivery thereof until such consolidated financial statements are delivered. "APPLICABLE PERCENTAGE" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment. If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
3 "Approved Fund" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) any entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or managers a Lender. "ASSIGNMENT AND ASSUMPTION" means an assignment and assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 9.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent. "AVAILABILITY PERIOD" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments. "BOARD" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America. "BORROWER" means Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., a Delaware corporation. "BORROWING" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect or (b) a Swingline Loan. "BORROWING REQUEST" means a request by the Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03 and in the form of Exhibit B. "BUSINESS DAY" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in Cleveland or New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; PROVIDED that, when used in connection with a Eurodollar Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks are not open for dealings in dollar deposits in the London interbank market. "CAPITAL LEASE OBLIGATIONS" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property, or a combination thereof, which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP. A "CHANGE IN CONTROL" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission thereunder as in effect on the date hereof) of Equity Interests representing more than 33% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of the Parent as of the date of such acquisition; (b) the occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of
4 the Parent by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Parent, or a committee thereof, nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated; or (c) the Borrower ceases, directly or indirectly, to be a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Parent. "CHANGE IN LAW" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender or the Issuing Bank (or, for purposes of Section 2.14(b), by any lending office of such Lender or by such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement. "CLASS", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans. "CODE" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. "COMMITMENT" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be (a) reduced from time to time pursuant to Section 2.08, (b) increased pursuant to Section 2.19 and (c) reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 9.04. The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Additional Credit Assumption Agreement or Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $250,000,000. "CONSOLIDATED EBITDAR" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus, without duplication and to the extent deducted in determining such Consolidated Net Income, the sum of Interest Expense, income tax expense, depreciation expense, amortization expense and Minimum Rent and minus Interest Income, all as determined in accordance with GAAP on a consolidated basis for the Parent and the Subsidiaries. "CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME" means, for any period, the consolidated net income (or loss) of the Parent and the Subsidiaries for such period (excluding extraordinary gains and losses), as determined in accordance with GAAP on a consolidated basis. "CONTROL" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through
5 the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise. "Controlling" and "Controlled" have meanings correlative thereto. "COVERAGE RATIO" means, for the Parent and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis at any date, the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDAR for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended to (b) the sum of (x) Net Interest Expense for such period and (y) Minimum Rent for such period. "DEFAULT" means any event or condition which constitutes an Event of Default or which upon notice, lapse of time or both would, unless cured or waived, become an Event of Default. "DESIGNATED UNIMPROVED LOTS" means any parcel of real property located in Franklin County, Ohio or Licking County, Ohio that has not been developed with improvements used or useful in the Borrower's business operations. "DISCLOSED MATTERS" means the actions, suits and proceedings and the environmental matters disclosed in Schedule 3.06. "DOLLARS" or "$" refers to lawful money of the United States of America. "EFFECTIVE DATE" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02). "ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS" means all laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or the effect of the environment on health or safety. "ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Borrower or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing. "EQUITY INTERESTS" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire any such equity interest. "ERISA" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.
6 "ERISA AFFILIATE" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Borrower, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code. "ERISA EVENT" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan; (e) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Borrower or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; or (g) the receipt by the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA. "EURODOLLAR", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, indicates that such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing or are to bear interest at a rate determined by reference to the LIBO Rate. "EVENT OF DEFAULT" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII. "EXCLUDED TAXES" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the Issuing Bank or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profits taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which the Borrower is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender (other than an assignee pursuant to a request by the Borrower under Section 2.18(b)), any withholding tax that is imposed on amounts payable to such Foreign Lender and which tax is in effect at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.16(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts from the Borrower with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.16(a).
7 "EXISTING CREDIT AGREEMENT" means the credit agreement dated as of April 30, 1998, as amended, among the Borrower, the Parent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto. "EXISTING LETTER OF CREDIT AGREEMENTS" means both (i) the Continuing Agreement for Issuance of Unsecured Commercial Letters of Credit dated as of July 7, 1998, between Huntington National Bank and Abercrombie & Fitch Stores, Inc. (n/k/a Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co.) and (ii) the Assumption of and Amendment to Continuing Agreement for Issuance of Commercial Letters of Credit dated as of October 11, 2000. "FACILITY FEE" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.11(a). "FEDERAL FUNDS EFFECTIVE RATE" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it. "FINANCIAL OFFICER" means the chief operating officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, vice president-finance, treasurer or controller of the Borrower. "FOREIGN LENDER" means any Lender or successor Issuing Bank that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than that in which the Borrower is located. For purposes of this definition, the United States of America, each State thereof and the District of Columbia shall be deemed to constitute a single jurisdiction. "FORWARD MINIMUM RENT COMMITMENTS" means minimum rent commitments (less related sublease income) under noncancelable leases, including under any such leases of any Person other than the Parent, the Borrower or a Subsidiary to the extent, directly or indirectly guaranteed, endorsed or assumed by the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or in respect of which the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary is contingently or otherwise liable, for the fiscal year following the Parent's most recently ended fiscal year, as reported or to be reported in the Parent's annual report filed on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission for the Parent's most recently ended fiscal year. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. "GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other entity
8 exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government. "GUARANTEE" of or by any Person (the "guarantor") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "primary obligor") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; PROVIDED, that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business. "GUARANTEE AGREEMENT" means a Guarantee Agreement in substantially the form of Exhibit E hereto among the Guarantors and the Administrative Agent acting on behalf of the Lenders, as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the provisions hereof. "GUARANTORS" means the Parent and the US Subsidiaries that become party to the Guarantee Agreement pursuant to Sections 4.01(f) and 5.09 or otherwise. "HAZARDOUS MATERIALS" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, friable asbestos or materials containing friable asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law. "INDEBTEDNESS" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (d) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding current accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business), (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (f) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (h) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty and (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such
9 Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor. "INDEMNIFIED TAXES" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes. "INTEREST EXPENSE" means, for any period, the gross interest expense of the Parent and the Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "INTEREST ELECTION REQUEST" means a request by the Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07 and in the form of Exhibit C. "INTEREST INCOME" means, for any period, interest income of the Parent and the Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. "INTEREST PAYMENT DATE" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan (other than a Swingline Loan), the last Business Day of each January, April, July and October, (b) with respect to any Eurodollar Loan, the last Business Day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Loan is required to be repaid. "INTEREST PERIOD" means (a) with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is 1, 2, 3 or 6 months thereafter as the Borrower may elect; PROVIDED, that (i) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless, in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing only, such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (ii) any Interest Period pertaining to a Eurodollar Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period. For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and, in the case of a Revolving Borrowing, thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing. "ISSUING BANK" means The Huntington National Bank and any Lender selected by the Borrower to issue Letters of Credit hereunder as provided in Section 2.05(i), in such capacity. The Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of the Issuing Bank, in which case the
10 term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate. "LC DISBURSEMENT" means a payment made by the Issuing Bank pursuant to a Letter of Credit. "LC EXPOSURE" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time. The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total LC Exposure at such time. "LENDERS" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Additional Credit Assumption Agreement or an Assignment and Assumption, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption. Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender. "LETTERS OF CREDIT" means Trade Letters of Credit and Standby Letters of Credit, including those existing letters of credit issued under the Existing Letter of Credit Agreements and set forth on Schedule 2.05 hereto. "LEVERAGE RATIO" means, for the Parent and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis at any date, the ratio of (a) Adjusted Total Debt at the end of the most recently ended fiscal quarter to (b) Consolidated EBITDAR for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters then ended. "LIBO RATE" means, with respect to any Eurodollar Borrowing for any Interest Period, the rate appearing on Moneyline Telerate screen page 3750 (or on any successor or substitute page of such service, or any successor to or substitute for such service, providing rate quotations comparable to those currently provided on such page of such service, as determined by the Administrative Agent from time to time for purposes of providing quotations of interest rates applicable to dollar deposits in the London interbank market) at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period. In the event that such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such Eurodollar Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the average (rounded upward to the nearest whole multiple of 1/16 of 1% per annum) rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Reference Banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period. "LIEN" means, with respect to any asset, (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest in, on or of such asset, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same
11 economic effect as any of the foregoing) relating to such asset and (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities. "LOAN DOCUMENTS" means this Agreement, any promissory notes issued pursuant to Section 2.09(e) hereunder and the Guarantee Agreement. "LOAN PARTIES" means the Borrower and the Guarantors. "LOANS" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement. "MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, assets, results of operations or financial condition of the Parent and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Parent or the Borrower to perform any of its obligations under this Agreement or (c) the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders under this Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement. "MATERIAL INDEBTEDNESS" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Swap Agreements, of any one or more of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $10,000,000. For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Swap Agreement at any time shall be the maximum aggregate amount (giving effect to any netting agreements) that the Parent, the Borrower or such Subsidiary would be required to pay if such Swap Agreement were terminated at such time. "MATERIAL SUBSIDIARY" means (a) the Borrower, (b) any Subsidiary owning an Equity Interest in a Material Subsidiary and (c) any other Subsidiary (i) the consolidated revenues of which for the most recent fiscal year of the Parent for which audited financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01 were greater than 5% of the Parent's consolidated revenues for such fiscal year or (ii) the consolidated tangible assets of which as of the end of such fiscal year were greater than 5% of the Parent's consolidated tangible assets as of such date or (iii) the EBITDAR of which as of the end of such fiscal year was greater than 5% of Consolidated EBITDAR for such fiscal year. "MATURITY DATE" means November 14, 2005. "MINIMUM RENT" means total rent expense less contingent store rent. "MULTIEMPLOYER PLAN" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA. "NCB" means National City Bank, a national banking association, together with its successors and assigns.
12 "NET INTEREST EXPENSE" means the greater of (a) zero and (b) Interest Expense less Interest Income. "NET PROCEEDS" means, with respect to any Prepayment Event (a) the cash proceeds received in respect of such event including (i) any cash received in respect of any non-cash proceeds, but only as and when received, (ii) in the case of a casualty, insurance proceeds, and (iii) in the case of a condemnation or similar event, condemnation awards and similar payments, net of (b) the sum of (i) all reasonable fees and out-of-pocket expenses paid by the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries to third parties (other than Affiliates) in connection with such event, (ii) in the case of a sale, transfer or other disposition of an asset (including pursuant to a sale and leaseback transaction or a casualty or a condemnation or similar proceeding), the amount of all payments required to be made by the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries as a result of such event to repay Indebtedness (other than Loans) secured by such asset or otherwise subject to mandatory prepayment as a result of such event, and (iii) the amount of all taxes paid (or reasonably estimated to be payable) by the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, and the amount of any reserves established by the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries to fund contingent liabilities reasonably estimated to be payable, in each case during the year that such event occurred or the next succeeding year and that are directly attributable to such event (as determined reasonably and in good faith by the chief financial officer of the Parent or the Borrower). "OTHER TAXES" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement. "PARENT" means Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a Delaware corporation. "PARTICIPANT" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04. "PBGC" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions. "PERMITTED ENCUMBRANCES" means: (a) Liens imposed by law for taxes that are not yet due or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04; (b) carriers', warehousemen's, mechanics', materialmen's, repairmen's and other like Liens imposed by law, arising in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations that are not overdue by more than 30 days or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.04; (c) pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in compliance with workers' compensation, unemployment insurance and other social security laws or regulations;
13 (d) deposits to secure the performance of bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business; (e) easements, zoning restrictions, rights-of-way and similar encumbrances on real property imposed by law or arising in the ordinary course of business that do not secure any monetary obligations and do not materially detract from the value of the affected property or interfere with the ordinary conduct of business of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (f) interests of a lessor or lessee arising under a lease; and (g) Liens resulting from judgments provided such judgments in the aggregate do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VII; PROVIDED that the term "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Lien securing Indebtedness. "PERMITTED INVESTMENTS" means: (a) direct obligations of, or obligations the principal of and interest on which are unconditionally guaranteed by, the United States of America (or by any agency thereof to the extent such obligations are backed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America), in each case maturing within one year from the date of acquisition thereof; (b) investments in commercial paper maturing within 270 days from the date of acquisition thereof and rated, at such date of acquisition, at least A2 by S&P or P2 by Moody's; (c) investments in certificates of deposit, banker's acceptances and time deposits maturing within 180 days from the date of acquisition thereof issued or guaranteed by or placed with, and money market deposit accounts issued or offered by (i) any domestic office of any commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof which has a combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $100,000,000, (ii) any Lender or (iii) any foreign banking institution or foreign branch of a domestic commercial bank the long-term debt of which (or of its holding company in the case of a domestic bank) is rated at least A- by S&P and A3 by Moody's; (d) fully collateralized repurchase agreements with a term of not more than 90 days for securities described in clause (a) above and entered into with a financial institution satisfying the criteria described in clause (c) above; (e) short-term tax-exempt securities rated not lower than BBB by either Moody's or S&P with provisions for liquidity or maturity accommodations of two years or less; and
14 (f) any money market or similar fund not less than 90% of the assets of which are comprised of any of the items specified in clauses (a) through (e) above and as to which withdrawals are permitted at least every 90 days. "PERSON" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity. "PLAN" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Borrower or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA. "PREPAYMENT EVENT" means: (a) any sale, transfer or other disposition (including pursuant to a sale and leaseback transaction or asset securitization) of any property or asset of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, other than (i) dispositions made in the ordinary course of business, (ii) dispositions of Designated Unimproved Lots and (iii) dispositions that result in Net Proceeds not exceeding $10,000,000 in the aggregate during any fiscal year of the Parent; or (b) any casualty or other insured damage to, or any taking under power of eminent domain or by condemnation or similar proceeding of, any property or asset of the Borrower, the Parent or any Subsidiary, other than any such event resulting in Net Proceeds not exceeding $10,000,000 in the aggregate during any fiscal year of the Parent, but only to the extent that the Net Proceeds therefrom have not been applied to repair, restore or replace such property or asset within 12 months after such event. "PRIME RATE" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by NCB as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in Cleveland, Ohio; each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective. "REINVESTMENT ASSETS" means real property, equipment or other tangible assets to be used in the business of the Parent, the Borrower or the Subsidiaries. "REGISTER" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.04. "REINVESTMENT DEFERRED AMOUNT" means with respect to any Reinvestment Event, the aggregate Net Proceeds received by the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in connection therewith that, as the result of the delivery of a Reinvestment Notice, are not applied to reduce the total Commitments pursuant to Section 2.08(c).
15 "REINVESTMENT EVENT" means any Prepayment Event in respect of which the Borrower has delivered a Reinvestment Notice. "REINVESTMENT NOTICE" means a written notice executed by a Financial Officer stating that no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and that the Parent, the Borrower or a Subsidiary intends and expects to use all or a specified portion of the Net Proceeds of a Prepayment Event to acquire Reinvestment Assets. "REINVESTMENT PREPAYMENT AMOUNT" means with respect to any Reinvestment Event, the (x) Reinvestment Deferred Amount relating thereto LESS (y) any amount thereof expended prior to the relevant Reinvestment Prepayment Date (i) to acquire Reinvestment Assets or (ii) to pay expenses relating to any proposed acquisition of Reinvestment Assets. "REINVESTMENT PREPAYMENT DATE" shall mean with respect to any Reinvestment Event, the earlier of (a) the date occurring twelve months after such Reinvestment Event and (b) the date on which the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary shall have notified the Administrative Agent that it has determined not to, or shall have otherwise ceased to, acquire Reinvestment Assets with all or any portion of the relevant Reinvestment Deferred Amount. "RELATED PARTIES" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates. "REFERENCE BANKS" means (i) NCB and (ii) any other Lender or Lenders selected as a Reference Bank by the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders; PROVIDED that if any of such Reference Banks is no longer a Lender, such other Lender or Lenders as may be selected by the Administrative Agent acting on instructions from the Required Lenders. "REQUIRED LENDERS" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing 51% or more of the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time. "RESTRICTED PAYMENT" means (a) any dividend or other distribution (whether in cash, securities or other property) with respect to any Equity Interest of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or (b) any payment (whether in cash, securities or other property), including any sinking fund or similar deposit, on account of (i) the purchase, redemption, retirement, acquisition, cancelation or termination of any Equity Interest of the Parent or the Borrower or (ii) any option, warrant or other right to acquire any such Equity Interest of the Parent or the Borrower. "REVOLVING BORROWING" means a Borrowing comprised of Revolving Loans.
16 "REVOLVING CREDIT EXPOSURE" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum of the outstanding principal amount of such Lender's Revolving Loans and its LC Exposure and Swingline Exposure at such time. "REVOLVING LOAN" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.03. "STANDBY LETTER OF CREDIT" means each irrevocable letter of credit issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 relating to obligations (including performance obligations) of the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any Loan Party incurred pursuant to contracts to which the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any Loan Party is or proposes to become a party in the ordinary course of business. "STANDBY LC DISBURSEMENT" means a payment made by the Issuing Bank pursuant to a Standby Letter of Credit. "STANDBY LC EXPOSURE" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Standby Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all Standby LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower at such time. The Standby LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Standby LC Exposure at such time. "STATUTORY RESERVE RATE" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board). Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D. Eurodollar Loans shall be deemed to constitute eurocurrency funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage. "SUBSIDIARY" means, with respect to any Person (the "parent") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
17 "SUBSIDIARY" means any subsidiary of the Parent or the Borrower. "SWAP AGREEMENT" means any agreement with respect to any swap, forward, future or derivative transaction or option or similar agreement involving, or settled by reference to, one or more rates, currencies, commodities, equity or debt instruments or securities, or economic, financial or pricing indices or measures of economic, financial or pricing risk or value or any similar transaction or any combination of these transactions; PROVIDED that no phantom stock or similar plan providing for payments only on account of services provided by current or former directors, officers, employees or consultants of the Parent, the Borrower or the Subsidiaries shall be a Swap Agreement. "SWINGLINE EXPOSURE" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time. The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the total Swingline Exposure at such time. "SWINGLINE LENDER" means NCB, in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder. "SWINGLINE LOAN" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.04. "TAXES" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority. "TOTAL DEBT" means, at any date, the consolidated total Indebtedness of the Parent and the Subsidiaries as of such date, as determined in accordance with GAAP (excluding from Indebtedness all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of the Parent and any Subsidiary as an account party in respect of Trade Letters of Credit). "TRADE LETTER OF CREDIT" means each commercial documentary letter of credit issued by an Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.05 for the purchase of goods in the ordinary course of business. "TRANSACTIONS" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and the Parent of this Agreement and by the Guarantors of the Guarantee Agreement, the borrowing of Loans, the use of the proceeds thereof and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder. "TYPE", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate or. "US SUBSIDIARY" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state or other political subdivision, territory or possession thereof. "UTILIZATION FEE" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.11(d).
18 "WITHDRAWAL LIABILITY" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA. Section 1.02. CLASSIFICATION OF LOANS AND BORROWINGS. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Loan") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Revolving Loan"). Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (e.g., a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Borrowing") or by Class and Type (e.g., a "Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing"). Section 1.03. TERMS GENERALLY. The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation". The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall". Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights. Section 1.04. ACCOUNTING TERMS; GAAP. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; PROVIDED that, if the Borrower notifies the Administrative Agent that the Borrower requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
19 ARTICLE II THE CREDITS Section 2.01. COMMITMENTS. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding such Lender's Commitment or (b) total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans. Section 2.02. LOANS AND BORROWINGS. (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments. The failure of any Lender to make any Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; PROVIDED that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Loans as required. (b) Subject to Section 2.13, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or Eurodollar Loans as the Borrower may request in accordance herewith. Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan. Each Lender at its option may make any Eurodollar Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; PROVIDED that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. (c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $500,000 and not less than $2,500,000. At the time that each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $100,000 and not less than $1,000,000; PROVIDED that (i) a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing in an aggregate amount not less than $2,500,000 and (ii) any ABR Revolving Borrowing, may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the total Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e). Each Swingline Loan shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $250,000 and not less than $1,000,000. Borrowings of more than one Type and Class may be outstanding at the same time; PROVIDED that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 10 Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings outstanding. (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date. Section 2.03. REQUESTS FOR REVOLVING BORROWINGS. To request a Revolving Borrowing, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such
20 request by telephone (a) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Cleveland time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing, or (b) in the case of an ABR Borrowing, not later than 10:30 a.m., Cleveland time, on the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (i) the aggregate amount of the requested Borrowing; (ii) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) whether such Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; (iv) in the case of a Eurodollar Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period"; and (v) the location and number of the Borrower's account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.06. If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Borrowing. If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing. Section 2.04. SWINGLINE LOANS. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans to the Borrower from time to time during the Availability Period, in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $20,000,000 or (ii) the total Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding the total Commitments; PROVIDED that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans. (b) To request a Swingline Loan, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such request by telephone (confirmed by telecopy), not later than 12:00 noon, Cleveland time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date (which shall be a Business Day) and amount of the requested Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received from the Borrower.
21 The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to the Borrower by means of a credit to a deposit account designated by the Borrower and maintained with a Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e), by remittance to the Issuing Bank) by 2:30 p.m., Cleveland time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan. (c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., Cleveland time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which Lenders will participate. Promptly upon receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations in Swingline Loans pursuant to this paragraph is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Each Lender shall comply with its obligation under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender. Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from the Borrower (or other party on behalf of the Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; PROVIDED that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve the Borrower of any default in the payment thereof. Section 2.05. LETTERS OF CREDIT. (a) General. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the issuance of Letters of Credit for itself, any Subsidiary or any Loan Party, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application
22 or other agreement submitted by the Borrower to, or entered into by the Borrower with, the Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit (including without limitation the Existing Letter of Credit Agreements), the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control. Anything to the contrary contained herein notwithstanding, the existing letters of credit set forth on Schedule 2.05(a) hereof shall as of the Effective Date be deemed Letters of Credit under this Agreement. (b) Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions. To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the Borrower shall hand deliver or telecopy (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the Issuing Bank) to the Issuing Bank (reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension) a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension, the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be necessary to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit. On every Business Day, all Issuing Banks shall report to the Administrative Agent (i) all such requests and (ii) the aggregate amount of the Letters of Credit issued for the current reporting period. If requested by the Issuing Bank, the Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on the Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit. A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall not exceed the total Commitments. (c) Expiration Date. Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension); PROVIDED that a Trade Letter of Credit may provide that it will be automatically extended, unless the Issuing Bank shall have notified the beneficiary thereof that such Trade Letter of Credit will not be so extended not less than a specified period prior to the scheduled expiration date thereof, and so long as such automatic extensions do not extend the term of any Trade Letter of Credit beyond the Maturity Date and (ii) the Maturity Date. (d) Participations. By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the part of the Issuing Bank or the Lenders, the Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from the Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit. In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by the Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by
23 the Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the Borrower for any reason. Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. (e) Reimbursement. If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, and if the Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., Cleveland time, on such date, the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Issuing Bank an amount equal to such LC Disbursement by not later than 3:00 p.m., Cleveland time, on the date that such LC Disbursement is made; if notice of such LC Disbursement has not been received by the Borrower prior to 10:00 a.m. on such date, then the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement not later than 12:00 noon, Cleveland time, on (i) the Business Day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is received prior to 10:00 a.m., Cleveland time, on the day of receipt, or (ii) the Business Day immediately following the day that the Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; PROVIDED that the Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 that such payment be financed with an ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, the Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan. If the Borrower fails to make such payment when due, the Issuing Bank shall notify the Administrative Agent and the Administrative Agent shall notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the payment then due from the Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from the Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders. Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from the Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Lenders that have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank and the Issuing Bank as their interests may appear. Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse the Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement. (f) Obligations Absolute. The Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of
24 (i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement, or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit, or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the Borrower's obligations hereunder. Neither the Administrative Agent, the Lenders nor the Issuing Bank, nor any of their Related Parties, shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of the Issuing Bank; PROVIDED that the foregoing shall not be construed to excuse the Issuing Bank from liability to the Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by the Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by the Borrower that are caused by the Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof. The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or wilful misconduct on the part of the Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction), the Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination. In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented which appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, the Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit. (g) Disbursement Procedures. The Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit. The Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of such demand for payment and whether the Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; PROVIDED that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the Borrower of its obligation to reimburse the Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement. (h) Interim Interest. If the Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that
25 the Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement, at the rate per annum equal to the lower of (i) the rate then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans and (ii) the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus the then Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Revolving Borrowings; PROVIDED that, if the Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.12(d) shall apply. Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse the Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment. (i) Addition, Termination or Replacement of an Issuing Bank. An Issuing Bank may be replaced, added or terminated at any time by written agreement between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (whose consent will not be unreasonably withheld) and the affected Issuing Bank(s). The Administrative Agent shall notify the Lenders of any such addition, termination or replacement of the Issuing Bank. At the time any such termination or replacement shall become effective, the Borrower shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the terminated or replaced Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.11(b). From and after the effective date of any such addition or replacement, (i) the new Issuing Bank shall have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit to be issued thereafter and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to refer such new or to any previous Issuing Bank, or to such new and all previous Issuing Banks, as the context shall require. After the termination or replacement of an Issuing Bank hereunder, the terminated or replaced Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such termination or replacement, but shall not be required to issue additional Letters of Credit. (j) Cash Collateralization. If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Borrower receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders (or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure) demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, the Borrower shall deposit in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders, an amount in cash equal to the LC Exposure as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; PROVIDED that the obligation to deposit such cash collateral shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Article VII. Such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrower's risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest. Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account. Moneys in such account
26 shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the Issuing Bank for LC Disbursements for which it has not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but subject to the consent of Lenders with LC Exposure representing greater than 50% of the total LC Exposure), be applied to satisfy other obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement. If the Borrower is required to provide an amount of cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such amount (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrower within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived. (k) Multiple Issuing Banks Contemplated. As used in this Agreement, the term, "the Issuing Bank" shall mean the Issuing Bank issuing the applicable Letter of Credit, but shall not be construed to mean that only one Issuing Bank may exist at any given time. Section 2.06. FUNDING OF BORROWINGS. (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 12:00 noon, Cleveland time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders; PROVIDED that Swingline Loans shall be made as provided in Section 2.04. The Administrative Agent will make such Loans available to the Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to an account of the Borrower maintained with a Lender and designated by the Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request; PROVIDED that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Issuing Bank. (b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and the Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to the Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation or (ii) in the case of the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to ABR Loans. If such Lender pays such amount to the Administrative Agent, then such amount shall constitute such Lender's Loan included in such Borrowing. Section 2.07. INTEREST ELECTIONS. (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the
27 case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the Borrower may elect to convert such Borrowing to a different Type or to continue such Borrowing and, in the case of a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section. The Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of the affected Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Borrowing, and the Loans comprising each such portion shall be considered a separate Borrowing. This Section shall not apply to Swingline Borrowings, which may not be converted or continued. (b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if the Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made on the effective date of such election. Each such telephonic Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or telecopy to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by the Borrower. (c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02: (i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing); (ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day; (iii) whether the resulting Borrowing is to be an ABR Borrowing or a Eurodollar Borrowing; and (iv) if the resulting Borrowing is a Eurodollar Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period". If any such Interest Election Request requests a Eurodollar Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. (d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Borrowing. (e) If the Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period
28 applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing. Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrower, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a Eurodollar Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto. Section 2.08. TERMINATION AND REDUCTION OF COMMITMENTS. (a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date. (b) The Borrower may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; PROVIDED that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000 and (ii) the Borrower shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.10, the Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments. (c) In the event and on each occasion that any Net Proceeds are received by or on behalf of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in respect of any Prepayment Event, then, unless a Reinvestment Notice shall be delivered in respect thereof, the Borrower shall promptly, and in any event within five Business Days after such Net Proceeds are received, reduce the total Commitments by an aggregate amount equal to 100% of such Net Proceeds; PROVIDED, that, on each Reinvestment Prepayment Date, an amount equal to the Reinvestment Prepayment Amount with respect to the relevant Reinvestment Event shall be applied to the permanent reduction of the total Commitments by an amount equal to the Reinvestment Prepayment Amount. (d) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each notice delivered by the Borrower pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; PROVIDED that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Borrower may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities or the consummation of other specified transactions, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Borrower (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied. Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent. Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments. Section 2.09. REPAYMENT OF LOANS; EVIDENCE OF DEBT. (a) The Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan on the Maturity Date and (ii) to the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each
29 Swingline Loan on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the 14th day after such Swingline Loan is made; PROVIDED that on each date that a Revolving Borrowing is made, the Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans then outstanding. (b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder. (c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof. (d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein; PROVIDED that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. (e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note. In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Administrative Agent. Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 9.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns). Section 2.10. PREPAYMENT OF LOANS. (a) The Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section. (b) In the event and on each occasion that the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposure exceeds the total aggregate Commitments (including without limitation as a result of any reduction of Commitments required by Section 2.08(c), the Borrower shall prepay Revolving Borrowings (or, if no such Borrowings are outstanding, deposit cash collateral in an account with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.05(j)) in an aggregate amount equal to such excess. (c) The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by telephone (confirmed by telecopy) of any prepayment hereunder (i) in the case of prepayment of a Eurodollar
30 Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Cleveland time, three Business Days before the date of prepayment, (ii) in the case of prepayment of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 11:00 a.m., Cleveland time, on the date of prepayment or (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 12:00 noon, Cleveland time, on the date of prepayment. Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; PROVIDED that, if a notice of prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.08, then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.08. Promptly following receipt of any such notice relating to a Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each partial prepayment of any Revolving Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Revolving Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02 in the aggregate principal amount thereof. Each prepayment of a Revolving Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing. Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.12. Section 2.11. FEES. (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee (the "Facility Fee"), which shall accrue at the Applicable Margin on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the date hereof to but excluding the date on which such Commitment terminates; PROVIDED that, if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure. Accrued facility fees shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the last Business Day of January, April, July and October of each year and on the date on which the Commitments terminate, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; PROVIDED that any facility fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (b) The Borrower agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in (x) Trade Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the rate equal to one half the Applicable Margin in effect for Eurodollar Revolving Loans and (y) Standby Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the Applicable Margin in effect for Eurodollar Revolving Loans, on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed
31 LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to the Issuing Bank a fronting fee, which shall accrue at the rate or rates per annum separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Issuing Bank on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as the Issuing Bank's standard fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder. Participation fees and fronting fees accrued through and including the last day of January, April, July and October of each year shall be payable on the last Business Day of January, April, July and October of each year, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; PROVIDED that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. Any other fees payable to the Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within 10 days after demand. All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (c) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. (d) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of each Lender, a utilization fee (a "UTILIZATION FEE") for each day during the preceding quarter (or shorter period commencing with the date hereof or ending with the date on which the Commitments shall have been terminated and the Loans repaid in full) on which the aggregate amount of all Loans outstanding (excluding Trade Letters of Credit) exceeded 50% of the total Commitments (including each day after the termination of the Commitments on which Loans shall be outstanding), at a per annum rate equal to the Applicable Margin, on the sum of the outstanding principal amount of Revolving Loans and Standby LC Exposure on such day. Accrued Utilization Fees shall be payable in arrears on the last Business Day of January, April, July and October of each year and on the Maturity Date, commencing on the first such date to occur after the date hereof; PROVIDED that any Utilization Fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand. All Utilization Fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). (e) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent (or to the Issuing Bank, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution, in the case of facility fees and participation fees, to the Lenders. Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances. Section 2.12. INTEREST. (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing (including each Swingline Loan) shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate. (b) The Loans comprising each Eurodollar Revolving Loan shall bear interest at the LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Margin.
32 (c) For so long as any Lender maintains reserves against "Eurocurrency liabilities" (or any other category of liabilities which includes deposits by reference to which the interest rate on Eurodollar Loans is determined or any category of extensions of credit or other assets which includes loans by a non-United States office of any Lender to United States residents), and as a result the cost to such Lender (or its Eurodollar lending office) of making or maintaining its Eurodollar Loans is increased, then such Lender may require the Borrower to pay, contemporaneously with each payment of interest on any Eurodollar Loan of such Lender, additional interest on such Eurodollar Loan for the Interest Period of such Eurodollar Loan at a rate per annum up to but not exceeding the excess of (i)(A) the applicable LIBO Rate, as the case may be, divided by (B) one minus the Statutory Reserve Rate over (ii) the rate specified in the preceding clause (i)(A). Any Lender wishing to require payment of such additional interest pursuant to the preceding sentence (x) shall so notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, in which case such additional interest on the Eurodollar Loans of such Lender shall be payable to such Bank at the place indicated in such notice with respect to each Interest Period commencing at least three Business Days after the giving of such notice and (y) shall furnish to the applicable Borrower at least five Business Days prior to each date on which interest is payable on such Eurodollar Loans an officer's certificate setting forth the amount to which such Lender is then entitled under this subsection (c) (which shall be consistent with such Lender's good faith estimate of the level at which the related reserves are maintained by it). Each such certificate shall be accompanied by such information as the Borrower may reasonably request as to the computation set forth therein. (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by the Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section. (e) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and, in the case of Revolving Loans, upon termination of the Commitments; PROVIDED that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any Eurodollar Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion. (f) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a
33 year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day). The applicable Alternate Base Rate or LIBO Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Section 2.13. ALTERNATE RATE OF INTEREST. If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a Eurodollar Borrowing: (a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or (b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders (or Lender) of making or maintaining their Loans (or its Loan) included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period; then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or telecopy as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, a Eurodollar Borrowing shall be ineffective and (ii) if any Borrowing Request requests a Eurodollar Revolving Borrowing, such Borrowing shall be made as an ABR Borrowing. Section 2.14. INCREASED COSTS. (a) If any Change in Law shall: (i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender or the Issuing Bank; or (ii) impose on any Lender or the Issuing Bank or the London interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or Eurodollar Loans made by such Lender or any Letter of Credit or participation therein; and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or the Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or the Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
34 (b) If any Lender or the Issuing Bank determines that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by the Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company could have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the Borrower will pay to such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered. (c) A certificate of a Lender or the Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or the Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section shall be delivered promptly to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. (d) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or the Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; PROVIDED that the Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or the Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 90 days prior to the date that such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Borrower of the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or the Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; PROVIDED FURTHER that, if the Change in Law giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 90-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof. Section 2.15. BREAK FUNDING PAYMENTS. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default), (b) the conversion of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Eurodollar Revolving Loan on the date specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto (regardless of whether such notice may be revoked under Section 2.10(b) and is revoked in accordance therewith) or (d) the assignment of any Eurodollar Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Borrower pursuant to Section 2.18, then, in any such event, the Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense attributable to such event. In the case of a Eurodollar Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of (i) the amount of interest which would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the LIBO Rate that would
35 have been applicable to such Loan, for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest which would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate which such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for dollar deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the Eurodollar market. A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error. The Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof. Section 2.16. TAXES. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; PROVIDED that if the Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. (b) In addition, the Borrower shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law. (c) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and the Issuing Bank, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of the Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority; PROVIDED, however, that if written demand for payment of an Indemnified Tax or Other Tax has not been made by the Administrative Agent, a Lender or the Issuing Bank within 30 Business Days from the later of (i) the date the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the Issuing Bank knew of the imposition thereof or (ii) the date such Indemnified Tax or Other Tax is due, then the Borrower shall not be obligated to pay or indemnify the Administrative Agent, such Lender or the Issuing Bank for penalties with respect to such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes that would not have been owed had such demand been made within 45 days and payment thereof occurred within 60 days from such date. A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Borrower by a Lender or the Issuing Bank, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or the Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
36 (d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by the Borrower to a Governmental Authority, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent. (e) Each Foreign Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction in withholding tax under the laws of the United States (or such other jurisdiction in which the Borrower may be located) shall, before the time prescribed by applicable law, and from time to time thereafter (as required by applicable law) before the date any such form expires or becomes obsolete or invalid, provide the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with Internal Revenue Service form W8-BEN or W8-ECI in duplicate, as appropriate, or such other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service that it may legally provide, certifying that such Foreign Lender is entitled to benefits under an income tax treaty to which the United States is a party which exempts the Lender from United States withholding tax or reduces the rate of United States withholding tax on payments of interest for the account of such Foreign Lender, or certifying that the income receivable pursuant to this Agreement is effectively connected with the conduct of such Foreign Lender's trade or business in the United States and exempt from United States withholding tax. (f) If an Issuing Bank, the Administrative Agent or a Lender becomes aware that it has received a refund in respect of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by the Borrower pursuant to this Section 2.16 or with respect to which the Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section 2.16, it shall, in a reasonable period of time, pay over such refund to the Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by the Borrower under this Section 2.16 with respect to the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); PROVIDED, that the Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to the Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to the Borrower or any other Person. Section 2.17. PAYMENTS GENERALLY; PRO RATA TREATMENT; SHARING OF SET-OFFS. (a) The Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements, or of amounts payable under Section 2.14, 2.15 or 2.16, or otherwise) not later than 3:00 p.m., Cleveland time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim. Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion
37 of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent at its offices at National City Bank, 629 Euclid Avenue, Second Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, except payments to be made directly to the Issuing Bank or Swingline Lender as expressly provided herein and except that payments pursuant to Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto. The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof. If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day, and, in the case of any payment accruing interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension. All payments hereunder shall be made in dollars. (b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties. (c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans of other Lenders to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans; PROVIDED that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by the Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements to any assignee or participant, other than to the Borrower or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply). The Borrower consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against the Borrower rights of set-
38 off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of the Borrower in the amount of such participation. (d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from the Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders or the Issuing Bank hereunder that the Borrower will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the Lenders or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due. In such event, if the Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each of the Lenders or the Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at the greater of the Federal Funds Effective Rate and a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation. (e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.05(d) or (e), 2.06(b) or 2.17(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid. Section 2.18. MITIGATION OBLIGATIONS; REPLACEMENT OF LENDERS. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.14 or 2.16, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender. The Borrower hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment. (b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.14, or if the Borrower is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.16, or if any Lender defaults in its obligation to fund Loans hereunder, then the Borrower may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 9.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); PROVIDED that (i) the Borrower shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent (and, if a
39 Commitment is being assigned, the Issuing Bank), which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld, (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Borrower (in the case of all other amounts) and (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim for compensation under Section 2.14 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.16, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments. A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Borrower to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply. Section 2.19. INCREASE IN REVOLVING CREDIT COMMITMENTS. (a) After the date hereof, the Borrower may, by written notice to the Administrative Agent, request Additional Credit Commitments in an amount not to exceed $50,000,000 from one or more Additional Credit Lenders, which may include any existing Lender; PROVIDED that during the life of this Agreement, the Borrower may only make one request for Additional Credit Commitments pursuant to this Section 2.19; PROVIDED FURTHER that each Additional Credit Lender, if not already a Lender hereunder, shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (which approvals shall not be unreasonably withheld). Each such notice shall set forth (i) the amount of the Additional Credit Commitments being requested (which shall be in a minimum amount of $2,500,000) and (ii) the date on which such Additional Credit Commitments are requested to become effective (which shall not be less than 10 Business Days nor more than 60 days after the date of such notice). (b) The Borrower and each Additional Credit Lender shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Additional Credit Assumption Agreement and such other documentation as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably specify to evidence the Additional Credit Commitment of such Additional Credit Lender. The Administrative Agent shall promptly notify each Lender as to the effectiveness of each Additional Credit Assumption Agreement. Each of the parties hereto hereby agrees that, upon the effectiveness of any Additional Credit Assumption Agreement, each such Additional Credit Lender shall, to the extent not an existing Lender, become a Lender hereunder and this Agreement shall be deemed amended to the extent (but only to the extent) necessary to reflect the existence and terms of the Additional Credit Commitment evidenced thereby. (c) Each of the parties hereto hereby agrees that the Administrative Agent may take any and all actions as may be reasonably necessary to ensure that, after giving effect to any Additional Credit Commitment pursuant to this Section 2.19, the outstanding Loans (if any) are held by the Lenders in accordance with their new pro rata percentages. This may be accomplished at the discretion of the Administrative Agent (i) by requiring the outstanding Loans to be prepaid with the proceeds of a new Borrowing, (ii) by causing the existing Lenders to assign portions of their outstanding Loans to Additional Credit Lenders, which assignments shall be deemed to be effective pursuant to
40 Section 9.04 or (iii) by any combination of the foregoing. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to eliminate any break funding liability to the Borrower, if, upon the date that any Additional Credit Commitment becomes effective pursuant to this Section 2.19, there is an unpaid principal amount of Revolving Loans to the Borrower, the principal outstanding amount of all such Revolving Loans shall (A) in the case of such Revolving Loans which are ABR Loans, be immediately prepaid by the Borrower (but all such Revolving Loans may, on the terms and conditions hereof, be reborrowed on such date on a pro rata basis, based on the revised Commitments as then in effect) and (B) in the case of such Revolving Loans which are Eurodollar Loans, continue to remain outstanding (notwithstanding any other requirement in this Agreement that such Revolving Loans be held on a pro rata basis based on the revised Commitments as then in effect) until the end of the then current Interest Period therefor, at which time such Eurodollar Loans shall be paid by the Borrower (but all such Revolving Loans may, on the terms and conditions hereof, be reborrowed on such date on a pro rata basis, based on the Commitments as then in effect). (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Additional Credit Commitment shall become effective under this Section 2.19 unless on the date of such effectiveness, the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 shall be satisfied and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated such date and executed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower. ARTICLE III REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders that: Section 3.01. ORGANIZATION; POWERS. Each of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required. Section 3.02. AUTHORIZATION; ENFORCEABILITY. The Transactions to be entered into by each Loan Party are within such Loan Party's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action. This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each of the Parent and the Borrower and constitutes, and each other Loan Document to which any Loan Party is to be a party, when executed and delivered by such Loan Party, will constitute, a legal, valid and binding obligation of each of the Parent, the Borrower or such Loan Party (as the case may be), enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy,
41 insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law. Section 3.03. GOVERNMENTAL APPROVALS; NO CONFLICTS. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate any applicable law or regulation or the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of any of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any order of any Governmental Authority, (c) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture or other agreement for borrowed money or under any other material agreement binding upon any of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by any of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, and (d) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any material asset of any of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary. Section 3.04. FINANCIAL CONDITION; NO MATERIAL ADVERSE CHANGE. (a) The Parent has heretofore furnished to the Lenders its consolidated balance sheet and statements of income, stockholders equity and cash flows (i) as of and for the fiscal year ended on February 2, 2002, reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent public accountants, and (ii) as of and for the fiscal quarter ended on August 3, 2002, certified by its chief financial officer. Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject to year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes in the case of the statements referred to in clause (ii) above. (b) Since February 2, 2002, there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations, prospects or condition, financial or otherwise, of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole. Section 3.05. PROPERTIES. (a) Each of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except for defects in title that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. (b) Each of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, trade names, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such failure to own or be licensed and infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 3.06. LITIGATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS. (a) There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against or affecting any
42 of the Parent, the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries (i) as to which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse determination and that, if adversely determined, could reasonably be expected, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect (other than the Disclosed Matters) or (ii) that expressly contest the validity of this Agreement or the Transactions. (b) Except for the Disclosed Matters and except with respect to any other matters that, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect, none of the Parent, the Borrower nor any Subsidiary (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability. (c) Since the date of this Agreement, there has been no change in the status of the Disclosed Matters that, individually or in the aggregate, has resulted in, or materially increased the likelihood of, a Material Adverse Effect. Section 3.07. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND AGREEMENTS. Each of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. No Default has occurred and is continuing. Section 3.08. INVESTMENT AND HOLDING COMPANY STATUS. None of the Parent, the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is (a) an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940 or (b) a "holding company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935. Section 3.09. TAXES. Each of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries has timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and has paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by it, except (a) Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Parent, the Borrower or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 3.10. ERISA. No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 3.11. DISCLOSURE. The reports, financial statements, certificates and other information furnished by or on behalf of the Parent or the Borrower to the
43 Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished), taken as a whole, do not contain any material misstatement of fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; PROVIDED that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrower represents only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time. Section 3.12. SUBSIDIARIES. Schedule 3.12 sets forth the name of, and the ownership interest of the Parent and each of its Subsidiaries in, and of the Borrower and each of its Subsidiaries in, each Subsidiary, in each case as of the Effective Date. Each Subsidiary is a Loan Party as of the Effective Date. ARTICLE IV CONDITIONS Section 4.01. EFFECTIVE DATE. The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 9.02): (a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include telecopy transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement. (b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of Vorys, Sater, Seymour and Pease, counsel for the Borrower, acceptable to the Administrative Agent, substantially in the form of Exhibit D, and covering such other matters relating to the Borrower, this Agreement or the Transactions as the Required Lenders shall reasonably request. The Borrower hereby requests such counsel to deliver such opinion. (c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of each Loan Party, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Loan Parties, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel. (d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by a Financial Officer of the Borrower, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
44 (e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Borrower hereunder. (f) The Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts of the Guarantee Agreement signed on behalf of the Parent and each U.S. Subsidiary. (g) The Administrative Agent shall have received evidence in a form satisfactory to it that the Existing Credit Agreement and the Existing Letter of Credit Agreements have been terminated and all obligations of the Borrower, the Parent and any Subsidiary thereunder have been paid ; PROVIDED that the existing letters of credit set forth on Schedule 2.05 shall be deemed Letters of Credit under this Agreement and shall not be terminated. The Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to Section 9.02) at or prior to 3:00 p.m., Cleveland time, on November 14, 2002 (and, in the event such conditions are not so satisfied or waived, the Commitments shall terminate at such time). Section 4.02. EACH CREDIT EVENT. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of the Issuing Bank to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions: (a) The representations and warranties of each of the Parent and the Borrower set forth in this Agreement shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, except to the extent any such representation or warranty is limited to another particular date, in which instance, such representation or warranty shall be true and correct on and as of such other date. (b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing. Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by each of the Parent and the Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
45 ARTICLE V AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder shall have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit shall have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, each of the Parent and the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that: Section 5.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION. The Parent will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender: (a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Parent, its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, all reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of such audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied; (b) within 45 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Parent, its consolidated balance sheet as of the end of such fiscal quarter, the related statements of income for such fiscal quarter and the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year and the related statement of cash flows for the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of the Parent and its consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes; (c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above, a certificate of a Financial Officer of the Borrower (i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and is continuing and, if a Default has occurred and is continuing, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto, (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Sections 6.10 and 6.11 and (iii) stating whether any change in GAAP or in
46 the application thereof has occurred since the date of the previous delivery of financial statements under clause (a) or (b) above; (d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials publicly filed by the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to any or all of the functions of said Commission, or with any national securities exchange, or distributed by the Parent or the Borrower to its shareholders generally, as the case may be; and (e) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may reasonably request; PROVIDED that if no Loans are outstanding hereunder, the requests of Lenders under this Section 5.01(e) shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent. Section 5.02. NOTICES OF MATERIAL EVENTS. The Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender prompt written notice of the following: (a) the occurrence of any Default; (b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against or affecting the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof that could reasonably be expected to be adversely determined in a manner that would result in a Material Adverse Effect; (c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect; and (d) any other development that results in, or could reasonably be expected to result in, a Material Adverse Effect. Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer or other executive officer of the Borrower setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto. Section 5.03. EXISTENCE; CONDUCT OF BUSINESS. Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence and the rights, licenses, permits, privileges and franchises material to the conduct of the business of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole; PROVIDED that
47 the foregoing shall not prohibit any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution permitted under Section 6.04. Section 5.04. PAYMENT OF OBLIGATIONS. Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, pay its obligations, including Tax liabilities, that, if not paid, could result in a Material Adverse Effect before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Parent, the Borrower or such Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto in accordance with GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.05. MAINTENANCE OF PROPERTIES; INSURANCE. Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, (a) keep and maintain all property material to the conduct of its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear excepted, and (b) maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations. Section 5.06. BOOKS AND RECORDS; INSPECTION RIGHTS. Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities. Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, upon reasonable prior notice and at such party's expense, to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records, and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and, if an Event of Default exists, its independent accountants. Such visits and inspections shall be arranged through the Administrative Agent and shall not occur more than once in any fiscal quarter unless an Event of Default shall exist. Section 5.07. COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS. Each of the Parent and the Borrower will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.08. USE OF PROCEEDS AND LETTERS OF CREDIT. The proceeds of the Loans will be used only for working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes. No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used, whether directly or indirectly, for any purpose that entails a violation of any of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulations T, U and X. Letters of Credit will be issued only to support import or other needs in the ordinary course of business. Section 5.09. ADDITIONAL SUBSIDIARIES; GUARANTEE REQUIREMENT. (a) If any additional US Subsidiary is formed or acquired after the Effective Date, the Parent or
48 the Borrower (as the case may be) will notify the Administrative Agent thereof within 30 days. (b) The Parent or the Borrower (as the case may be) will promptly cause any US Subsidiary that is not then a Guarantor to become a party to the Guarantee Agreement within 30 days of the acquisition or creation of such US Subsidiary. ARTICLE VI NEGATIVE COVENANTS Until the Commitments have expired or terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full and all Letters of Credit have expired or terminated and all LC Disbursements shall have been reimbursed, each of the Parent and the Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that: Section 6.01. INDEBTEDNESS. The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness, except: (a) Indebtedness created under the Loan Documents; (b) Indebtedness existing on the date hereof and (in the case of any such Indebtedness in a principal amount in excess of $1,000,000) set forth in Schedule 6.01 and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; (c) Indebtedness (i) resulting from any loan or advance by a Loan Party to another Loan Party, (ii) resulting from any loan or advance by a Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party to a Loan Party, (iii) resulting from any loan or advance by any Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party to any other Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party and (iv) resulting from any loan or advance by any Loan Party to any Subsidiary that is not a Loan Party; PROVIDED that the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Indebtedness permitted solely by this subclause (iv) shall not exceed in the aggregate for all Loan Parties at any time $20,000,000 less the amount by which the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Indebtedness of Subsidiaries that are not Loan Parties permitted under clause (g) below exceeds $5,000,000; (d) Indebtedness of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any fixed or capital assets, including Capital Lease Obligations and any Indebtedness assumed in connection with the acquisition of any such assets or secured by a Lien on any such assets prior to the acquisition
49 thereof, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; PROVIDED that such Indebtedness is incurred prior to or within 90 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement; (e) Indebtedness of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof; PROVIDED that (i) such Indebtedness exists at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Indebtedness permitted by this clause (e) shall not exceed $20,000,000 at any time outstanding; and (f) other unsecured Indebtedness of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount not exceeding $50,000,000 at any time outstanding; PROVIDED that such Indebtedness, as permitted under this Section 6.01(f), may not be comprised of obligations in respect of letters of credit. Section 6.02. LIENS. The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, or assign or sell any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect of any thereof, except: (a) Permitted Encumbrances; (b) any Lien on any property or asset of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary existing on the date hereof and (in the case of any Lien securing obligations in an aggregate amount in excess of $1,000,000) set forth in Schedule 6.02; PROVIDED that (i) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or asset of the Parent, Borrower or any Subsidiary and (ii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date hereof and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof; (c) any Lien existing on any property or asset prior to the acquisition thereof by the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary or existing on any property or asset of any Person that becomes a Subsidiary after the date hereof prior to the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary; PROVIDED that (i) such Lien is not created in contemplation of or in connection with such acquisition or such Person becoming a Subsidiary, (ii) such Lien shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary and (iii) such Lien shall secure only those obligations which it secures on the date of such acquisition or the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary and extensions, renewals and replacements thereof that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
50 (d) Liens on fixed or capital assets acquired, constructed or improved by the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary; PROVIDED that (i) such security interests secure Indebtedness permitted by clause (d) of Section 6.01, (ii) such security interests and the Indebtedness secured thereby are incurred prior to or within 90 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement, (iii) the Indebtedness secured thereby does not exceed the cost of acquiring, constructing or improving such fixed or capital assets and (iv) such security interests shall not apply to any other property or assets of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary; (e) Liens of sellers of goods to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries arising under Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code or similar provisions of applicable law in the ordinary course of business, covering only the goods sold and securing only the unpaid purchase price for such goods and related expenses; and (f) Liens on raw materials and inventory acquired in the ordinary course of business securing obligations in respect of Trade Letters of Credit issued hereunder. Section 6.03. SALE-LEASEBACK TRANSACTIONS. The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any arrangement, directly or indirectly, with any Person whereby they shall sell or transfer any property, real or personal, used or useful in their business, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, and thereafter rent or lease such property or other property which they intend to use for substantially the same purpose or purposes as the property being sold or transferred; PROVIDED that the Borrower, Parent or any Subsidiary may enter into a sale-leaseback transaction prior to or within 180 days after the acquisition or completion of construction of the property which is the subject of such sale-leaseback transaction. Section 6.04. FUNDAMENTAL CHANGES. (a) The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) all or any substantial part of its assets, or all or substantially all of the stock of any Subsidiary (in each case, whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, except that, if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto no Default shall have occurred and be continuing (i) any Person may merge into the Parent or the Borrower in a transaction in which the Parent or the Borrower, as the case may be, is the surviving corporation, (ii) any Person may merge into any Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Subsidiary, (iii) any Subsidiary may sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of its assets to the Parent, the Borrower or another Loan Party, (iv) any disposition of assets constituting an investment permitted by Section 6.05(c) shall be permitted and (v) any Subsidiary may liquidate or dissolve if the Borrower or the Parent (as the case may be) determines in good faith that such liquidation or dissolution is in the best interests of the Borrower or the Parent (as the case may be) and is not materially
51 disadvantageous to the Lenders; PROVIDED that any such merger involving a Person that is not a wholly owned Subsidiary immediately prior to such merger shall not be permitted unless also permitted by Section 6.05. (b) The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, engage to any material extent in any business other than businesses of the type conducted by the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries on the date of execution of this Agreement and businesses reasonably related or incidental thereto. Section 6.05. INVESTMENTS, LOANS, ADVANCES, GUARANTEES AND ACQUISITIONS. The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, purchase, hold or acquire (including pursuant to any merger with any Person that was not a wholly owned Subsidiary prior to such merger) any capital stock, evidences of indebtedness or other securities (including any option, warrant or other right to acquire any of the foregoing) of, make or permit to exist any loans or advances to, Guarantee any obligations of, or make or permit to exist any investment or any other interest in, any other Person, or purchase or otherwise acquire (in one transaction or a series of transactions) any assets of any other Person constituting a business unit, except: (a) Permitted Investments; (b) investments by the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary that is a Guarantor in the Parent, the Borrower or any such Subsidiary; (c) additional purchases of or investments by the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the capital stock of Subsidiaries, joint ventures or the capital stock, assets, obligations or other securities of or interest in other Persons in an amount in the aggregate at any time outstanding which does not exceed 15% of consolidated shareholders' equity of the Parent; (d) Indebtedness permitted by clause (c) of Section 6.01; (e) Guarantees of Indebtedness of any Loan Party permitted by Section 6.01. (f) loans and advances to officers and directors of any Loan Party (or employees thereof provided such loans and advances are approved by an officer of a Loan Party) for travel, entertainment and relocation expenses in the ordinary course of business in an aggregate principal amount outstanding at any time that shall not exceed $1,000,000; and (g) an existing loan in the current principal amount of $4,953,833 to the chairman of the board of the Parent; PROVIDED, that such loan shall not be permitted to continue to exist after December 31, 2002. Section 6.06. SWAP AGREEMENTS. The Borrower will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, enter into any Swap Agreement, except (a) Swap
52 Agreements entered into to hedge or mitigate risks to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary has actual exposure (other than those in respect of Equity Interests of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries), and (b) Swap Agreements entered into in order to effectively cap, collar or exchange interest rates (from fixed to floating rates, from one floating rate to another floating rate or otherwise) with respect to any interest-bearing liability or investment of the Borrower or any Subsidiary; PROVIDED that the Swap Agreements permitted by this Section 6.06 may only be provided by (i) a domestic office of any commercial bank organized under the laws of the United States of America or any State thereof which has a combined capital and surplus and undivided profits of not less than $100,000,000, (ii) any Lender or (iii) a foreign banking institution or foreign branch of a domestic commercial bank the long-term debt of which (or of its holding company in the case of a domestic bank) is rated at least A- by S&P and A3 by Moody's; PROVIDED FURTHER that all Swap Agreements permitted by this Section 6.06 must conform to the standards set forth in an ISDA master agreement. Section 6.07. RESTRICTED PAYMENTS. The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, declare or make, or agree to pay or make, directly or indirectly, any Restricted Payment, except (a) the Parent and the Borrower may declare and pay dividends with respect to its Equity Interests payable solely in additional shares of its common stock; (b) if no Default has occurred and is continuing, the Parent may declare and pay and, if declared when no Default exists, the Borrower may pay, dividends in cash in a cumulative aggregate amount for all such dividends declared after the date hereof not to exceed 20% of Consolidated Net Income for the period from February 2, 2002 through the end of the most recently ended fiscal quarter of the Parent (considered as a single accounting period); (c) Subsidiaries may (i) declare and pay dividends or make distributions ratably with respect to their Equity Interests and (ii) may make Restricted Payments to the Parent, and other Subsidiaries of the Parent, in amounts necessary to enable the Parent to pay the dividends described in clause (b) above, along with standard costs associated with such payment of dividends or distributions, and to pay taxes and operating and professional expenses; (d) the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries may make Restricted Payments pursuant to and in accordance with employment contracts, stock option plans or other benefit plans or similar arrangements for consultants, management (including directors and officers) or employees of the Parent, the Borrower and the Subsidiaries; (e) so long as no Default or Event of Default shall exist, the Parent and the Borrower may (i) repurchase fractional shares of common stock of the Parent and (ii) repurchase shares of common stock of the Parent for cash ; PROVIDED that the aggregate number of shares repurchased under this clause (ii) may not, during the lifetime of this Agreement, exceed 5,000,000 (adjusted appropriately for stock splits, stock dividends, reverse splits, combinations or similar transactions); PROVIDED FURTHER that the aggregate purchase price for all such repurchases in any given fiscal year of the Borrower may not exceed 40% of Consolidated Net Income for such fiscal year (it being understood that all purchases of shares of common stock on the open market shall be subject to the limitations set out in the provisos to this clause (e) and are not separately permitted by clause (d) above); and (f) any declaration of a dividend in connection with a stockholders' rights plan, or the issuance of rights,
53 stock or other property under any stockholders' rights plan, or the redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant thereto. Section 6.08. TRANSACTIONS WITH AFFILIATES. The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) in the ordinary course of business at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to the Parent and the Borrower or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties, (b) transactions between or among the Parent, the Borrower and their wholly owned Subsidiaries, not involving any other Affiliate and (c) any Restricted Payment permitted by Section 6.07. Section 6.09. RESTRICTIVE AGREEMENTS. The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly, enter into, incur or permit to exist any agreement or other arrangement that prohibits, restricts or imposes any condition upon (a) the ability of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary to create, incur or permit to exist any Lien upon any of its property or assets, or (b) the ability of any Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions with respect to any shares of its capital stock or to make or repay loans or advances to the Parent, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary or to Guarantee Indebtedness of the Parent, the Borrower or any other Subsidiary; PROVIDED that (i) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions imposed by law or by this Agreement, (ii) the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions and conditions existing on the date hereof identified on Schedule 6.09 (but shall apply to any amendment or modification expanding the scope of any such restriction or condition), (iii) the foregoing shall not apply to customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary pending such sale, provided such restrictions and conditions apply only to the Subsidiary that is to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder, (iv) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness permitted by this Agreement if such restrictions or conditions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness and (v) clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions in leases and other contracts restricting the assignment thereof. Section 6.10. LEVERAGE RATIO. The Parent and the Borrower will not permit the Leverage Ratio at the end of any fiscal quarter to be greater than 3.50 to 1.00. Section 6.11. COVERAGE RATIO. The Parent and the Borrower will not permit the Coverage Ratio at the end of any fiscal quarter to be less 2.50 to 1.00. Section 6.12. ACCOUNTING CHANGES. The Parent and the Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, change its accounting policies or practices from those utilized in the preparation of the financial statements referred to in Section 3.04, except as permitted or required by GAAP consistently applied.
54 ARTICLE VII EVENTS OF DEFAULT If any of the following events ("Events of Default") shall occur: (a) the Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise; (b) the Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of three Business Days; (c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary in this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, shall prove to have been incorrect in any material respect when made or deemed made; (d) the Parent or the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02(a), 5.03 (with respect to the Borrower's existence) or 5.08 or in Article VI; (e) the Parent or the Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Borrower (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender); (f) any Loan Party shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest and regardless of amount) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable and after giving effect to up to the first 30 days of any grace periods applicable thereto; (g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due prior to its scheduled maturity or that enables or permits the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled maturity; PROVIDED that this
55 clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness; (h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered; (i) the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any corporate action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing; (j) the Parent, the Borrower or any Material Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due; (k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $10,000,000 (net of any insurance coverage available therefor from a responsible insurance company that is not denying its liability with respect thereto) shall be rendered against the Parent, the Borrower, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 30 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Parent, the Borrower or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment; (l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, could reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
56 (m) any Guarantee of any Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement shall cease to be (other than pursuant to the terms of the Guarantee Agreement), or shall be asserted by any Loan Party not to be, a legal, valid and binding obligation of such Guarantor, other than as a result of an event generally described in any of clauses (h), (i) or (j) above with respect to a Subsidiary that is not a Material Subsidiary; or (n) a Change in Control shall occur; then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Borrower, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times: (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower; and in case of any event with respect to the Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrower accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrower. ARTICLE VIII THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. The bank serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder. The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties,
57 regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing as directed by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Parent, the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity. The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 9.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or wilful misconduct. The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document, or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon. The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts. The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties. The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as Administrative Agent. Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by
58 notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and the Borrower. Upon any such resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, in consultation with the Borrower, to appoint a successor. If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank, appoint a successor Administrative Agent. Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as Administrative Agent. Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement. Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder. ARTICLE IX MISCELLANEOUS Section 9.01. NOTICES. (a) Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone (and subject to paragraph (b) below), all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by telecopy, as follows: (i) if to the Borrower, to it at Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., 6301 Fitch Path, New Albany, Ohio 43054, Attention of Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Telecopy No. (614) 283-6950); (ii) if to the Administrative Agent or the Swingline Lender, to National City Bank, Agent Services Group, 629 Euclid Avenue, Second Floor, Cleveland, Ohio 44114, Attention of Scott Lankford (Telecopy No. 216 222-0103), with a copy to National City Bank, National Retailer Group, 155 East Broad Street, Columbus, Ohio 43215 (Telecopy No. 614 463-8572); and
59 (iii) if to an Issuing Bank or any other Lender, to it at its address (or telecopy number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire. (b) Notices and other communications to the Lenders hereunder may be delivered or furnished by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent; PROVIDED that the foregoing shall not apply to notices pursuant to Article II unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent and the applicable Lender. The Administrative Agent or the Borrower may, in its discretion, agree to accept notices and other communications to it hereunder by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by it; PROVIDED that approval of such procedures may be limited to particular notices or communications. (c) Any party hereto may change its address or telecopy number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt. Section 9.02. WAIVERS; AMENDMENTS. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lender or the Issuing Bank may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time. (b) Except as expressly provided in paragraph (c) of this Section, neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Borrower and the Required Lenders or by the Borrower and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; PROVIDED that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.17(b) or (c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of payments required thereby, without the written consent of each Lender, (v)
60 release Parent or any Material Subsidiary from its Guarantee under the Guarantee Agreement, without the written consent of each Lender or (vi) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender; PROVIDED FURTHER that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be. (c) Notwithstanding anything in paragraph (b) of this Section to the contrary, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents may be amended at any time prior to the Maturity Date to increase the aggregate Commitments pursuant to Section 2.19 of this Agreement. Section 9.03. EXPENSES; INDEMNITY; DAMAGE WAIVER. (a) The Borrower shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation, execution and delivery and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated) and (ii) reasonable all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender, in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout or restructuring, or negotiations in respect thereof, of such Loans or Letters of Credit and documentary taxes associated with this Agreement. (b) The Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "Indemnitee") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceedings relating to (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by the Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Borrower or
61 any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto; PROVIDED that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or wilful misconduct of such Indemnitee. (c) To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; PROVIDED that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such. (d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof. (e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor. Section 9.04. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that (i) the Borrower may not assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by the Borrower without such consent shall be null and void) and (ii) no Lender may assign or otherwise transfer its rights or obligations hereunder except in accordance with this Section. Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of the Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), Participants (to the extent provided in paragraph (c) of this Section) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement. (b) (i) Subject to the conditions set forth in paragraph (b)(ii) below, any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the
62 time owing to it), with the prior written consent (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld) of: (A) the Borrower, PROVIDED that no consent of the Borrower shall be required for an assignment to a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender, or, if an Event of Default under clause (a), (b), (h) or (i) of Article VII has occurred and is continuing, any other assignee; and (B) the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of an assignment of all or a portion of any Lender's obligations in respect of its LC Exposure, the Issuing Bank), provided that no consent of the Administrative Agent or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, shall be required for an assignment to an assignee that is a Lender immediately prior to giving effect to such assignment. (ii) Assignments shall be subject to the following conditions: (A) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender, an Affiliate of a Lender or an Approved Fund or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $2,500,000 unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, provided that no such consent of the Borrower shall be required if an Event of Default under clause (a), (b), (h) or (i) of Article VII has occurred and is continuing; (B) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement; (C) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500; and (D) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire (iii) Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (b)(iv) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such
63 Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03). Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 9.04 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section. (iv) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time, which register shall indicate that each lender is entitled to interest paid with respect to such Loans and LC Disbursements (the "REGISTER"). The entries in the Register shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower, the Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice. (v) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register. No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph. (c) (i) Any Lender may, without the consent of the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "Participant") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); PROVIDED that (A) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (B) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (C) the Borrower, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement. Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; PROVIDED that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 9.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (c)(ii) of this Section, the Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.14, 2.15 and 2.16 to the
64 same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section; provided that Section 2.18(b) shall apply to any Participant to such extent. To the extent permitted by law, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 9.08 as though it were a Lender, provided such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.17(c) as though it were a Lender. (ii) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.14 or 2.16 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Borrower's prior written consent. A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.16 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with Section 2.16(e) as though it were a Lender. (d) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including without limitation any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; PROVIDED that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto. Section 9.05. SURVIVAL. All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrower herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated. The provisions of Sections 2.14, 2.15, 2.16 and 9.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof. Section 9.06. COUNTERPARTS; INTEGRATION; EFFECTIVENESS. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to
65 the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof which, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement. Section 9.07. SEVERABILITY. Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction. Section 9.08. RIGHT OF SETOFF. If (i) an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) the Required Lenders shall have requested the Administrative Agent to declare the Loans to be immediately due and payable pursuant to Article VII, or the Loans have become immediately due and payable without notice as provided in Article VII, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of the Borrower against any of and all the obligations of the Borrower now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured. The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have. Section 9.09. GOVERNING LAW; SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION; VENUE; CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS. (a) THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES HEREUNDER AND THEREUNDER SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND BE GOVERNED BY THE LAW OF THE STATE OF OHIO, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE BORROWER HEREBY UNCONDITIONALLY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY CLAIM TO ASSERT THAT THE LAW OF ANY JURISDICTION OTHER THAN THE STATE OF OHIO GOVERNS THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OF THE OTHER CREDIT DOCUMENTS. Any legal action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement or any other Loan Document may be brought in the Court of Common Pleas of Cuyahoga County, Ohio, or of the United States for the Northern District of Ohio, and, by execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Borrower hereby irrevocably accepts for itself and in respect of its property, generally and unconditionally, the jurisdiction of the aforesaid courts. The Borrower hereby further irrevocably consents to the service of process out of any of the aforementioned courts in any such action or proceeding by the mailing of copies thereof
66 by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, to such Borrower at its address for notices pursuant to section 9.01, such service to become effective 30 days after such mailing or at such earlier time as may be provided under applicable law. Nothing herein shall affect the right of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to serve process in any other manner permitted by law or to commence legal proceedings or otherwise proceed against any Borrower in any other jurisdiction. (b) The Borrower hereby irrevocably waives any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any of the aforesaid actions or proceedings arising out of or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document brought in the courts referred to in paragraph (a) above and hereby further irrevocably waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such action or proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 9.01. Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law. Section 9.10. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY). EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. Section 9.11. HEADINGS. Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement. Section 9.12. CONFIDENTIALITY. Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority, (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party to this Agreement, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the enforcement of rights hereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions
67 substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (i) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (ii) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower. For the purposes of this Section, "Information" means all information received from the Borrower relating to the Borrower or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information. Section 9.13. INTEREST RATE LIMITATION. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the "Charges"), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "Maximum Rate") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written. ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MANAGEMENT CO. by /s/ Wesley Mcdonald ------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO., by
68 /s/ Wesley Mcdonald ------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer NATIONAL CITY BANK, individually and as Administrative Agent, by /s/ Joseph L. Kwasny --------------------------------- Name: Joseph L. Kwasny Title: Vice President
69 SIGNATURE PAGE TO ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MANAGEMENT CO. CREDIT AGREEMENT DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 14, 2002 BANK OF AMERICA N.A. by /s/ Kipling E. Davis - -------------------------------- Name: Kipling E. Davis Title: Vice President CITIZENS BANK OF PENNSYLVANIA by /s/ John J. Ligday, Jr. - -------------------------------- Name: John J. Ligday, Jr. Title: Vice President COMPASS BANK by /s/ Keely W. McGee - -------------------------------- Name: Keely W. McGee Title: Vice President FIFTH THIRD BANK by /s/ Kim Dennis - -------------------------------- Name: Kim Dennis Title: Large Corporate Accounts, Assistant Vice President FLEET NATIONAL BANK by /s/ Judith C.E. Kelly - -------------------------------- Name: Judith C.E. Kelly Title: Director
70 HIBERNIA NATIONAL BANK by /s/ Kay St. John - -------------------------------- Name: Kay St. John Title: Senior Vice President & Manager U.S. Corporate HUNTINGTON NATIONAL BANK. by /s/ William R. Remins - -------------------------------- Name: William R. Remins Title: Vice President JPMORGAN CHASE BANK by /s/ James Knight - -------------------------------- Name: James Knight Title: Vice President LASALLE BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION by /s/ Tricia L. Somoles - -------------------------------- Name: Tricia L. Somoles Title: Commercial Loan Officer NATIONAL CITY BANK by /s/ Joseph L. Kwasny - -------------------------------- Name: Joseph L. Kwasny Title: Vice President PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION by /s/ Jeffrey L. Stein - -------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey L. Stein Title: Vice President THE BANK OF NEW YORK by /s/ William M. Barnum - -------------------------------- Name: William M. Barnum Title: Vice President
71 THE NORINCHUKIN BANK, NEW YORK BRANCH by /s/ Fumiaki Ono - -------------------------------- Name: Fumiaki Ono Title: General Manager U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION by /s/ Robert H. Friend - -------------------------------- Name: Robert H. Friend Title: Vice President

Exhibit 4.2 CONFORMED COPY GUARANTEE AGREEMENT GUARANTEE AGREEMENT dated as of November 14, 2002, among ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO., a Delaware corporation ("Parent"), each direct and indirect Subsidiary of Parent other than Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. (each a "US Subsidiary" and, together with Parent and any other Subsidiaries that become parties hereto as contemplated by Section 15 hereof, referred to herein individually as a "Guarantor" and collectively as the "Guarantors"), and NATIONAL CITY BANK, as administrative agent (the "Agent") for the Lenders (the "Lenders") party to the Credit Agreement dated as of November 14, 2002 (as amended from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), among Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. (the "Borrower"), Parent, the Lenders party thereto and the Agent. The Lenders have respectively agreed to make loans to Borrower. The obligations of the Lenders to lend under the Credit Agreement are conditioned on, among other things, the execution and delivery by the Guarantors of a guarantee agreement in the form hereof. The Guarantors acknowledge that they will derive substantial benefits from the extension of credit to Borrower under the Credit Agreement. As consideration therefor and in order to induce the Lenders to make the Loans (such term and the other capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein having the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement), the Guarantors are willing to execute and deliver this Agreement. Accordingly, the parties hereto agree as follows: SECTION 1. Each of the Guarantors unconditionally guarantees, jointly with the other Guarantors and severally, as a primary obligor and not merely as a surety, (a) the due and punctual payment by the Borrower of (i) the principal of and interest on the Loans, when and as due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, upon one or more dates set for prepayment or otherwise and (ii) all other monetary obligations of the Borrower to the Lenders and the Agent under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents to which the Borrower is or is to be a party and (b) the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Borrower under the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents (all the foregoing obligations being collectively called the "Obligations"). Each of the Guarantors further agrees that the Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its guarantee notwithstanding any extension or renewal of any Obligation.
SECTION 2. Each of the Guarantors waives presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to the Borrower of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its guarantee and notice of protest for nonpayment. The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be affected by (a) the failure of the Agent or any Lender to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against the Borrower under the provisions of any Loan Document or otherwise; (b) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of, or any release from any of the terms or provisions of, any Loan Document, any guarantee or any other agreement, including with respect to any other Guarantor under this Agreement; (c) the release of any security held by the Agent or any Lender for the Obligations or any of them; or (d) the failure of the Agent or any Lender to exercise any right or remedy against any other Guarantor or guarantor of the Obligations.
3 SECTION 3. Each of the Guarantors further agrees that its guarantee hereunder constitutes a guarantee of payment when due and not of collection, and waives any right to require that resort be had by the Agent or any Lender to any security held for payment of the Obligations or to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of the Agent or any Lender in favor of the Borrower or any other person. SECTION 4. The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, including, without limitation, any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and shall not be subject to any defense or setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by the failure of the Agent or any Lender to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under any Loan Document, any guarantee or any other agreement, by any waiver or modification of any thereof, by any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations, or by any other act or omission which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of any Guarantor or otherwise operate as a discharge of the Borrower or any Guarantor as a matter of law or equity (other than the indefeasible payment in full of all the Obligations). SECTION 5. Each of the Guarantors further agrees that its guarantee shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any Obligation is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by the Agent or any Lender upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of the Borrower, any other Guarantor or otherwise. SECTION 6. In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right which the Agent or any Lender has at law or in equity against any Guarantor by virtue hereof, upon the failure of the Borrower to pay any Obligation when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, each of the Guarantors hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Agent, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, to the Agent for distribution to the Lenders, if and as appropriate, in cash the amount of such unpaid Obligation. Notwithstanding any payment or payments made by a Guarantor hereunder or any setoff or application of funds of a Guarantor by the Agent or any Lender, no Guarantor shall be entitled to be subrogated to any of the rights of the Agent or any Lender against the Borrower or any collateral security or guarantee or right of offset held for the payment of the Obligations, nor shall any Guarantor seek or be entitled to seek any contribution or reimbursement from the Borrower in respect of payments made by such Guarantor hereunder, until all amounts owing to the Agent or any Lender by the Borrower on account of the Obligations are paid in full and the Commitments are terminated. If any amount shall erroneously be paid to any Guarantor on account of such subrogation, contribution, reimbursement, indemnity and similar rights, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Lenders and shall forthwith be paid to the Agent to be credited and applied to the payment of the Obligations. Any term or provision of this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the maximum aggregate amount of the Obligations guaranteed hereunder by any Guarantor shall not exceed the maximum amount that can be hereby guaranteed by that Guarantor without rendering this Agreement, as it relates to such Guarantor, voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally.
4 SECTION 7. Each of the Guarantors represents and warrants that (a) it is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization, (b) the execution, delivery and performance by it of this Agreement are within its corporate powers, have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and (if necessary) stockholder action, and do not contravene, or constitute a default under, any provision of applicable law or regulation or of its certificate of incorporation or By-Laws or any material agreement or instrument binding upon it, and (c) this Agreement constitutes a valid and binding agreement of such Guarantor, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to the effect of applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and equitable principles of general applicability.
5 SECTION 8. The guarantees made hereunder shall survive and be in full force and effect so long as any Obligation is outstanding and has not been indefeasibly paid, and shall be reinstated to the extent provided in Section 5. SECTION 9. This Agreement and the terms, covenants and conditions hereof shall be binding upon each Guarantor and its successors and shall inure to the benefit of the Agent and the Lenders and their respective successors and assigns. None of the Guarantors shall be permitted to assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, except as expressly contemplated by this Agreement. SECTION 10. No failure on the part of the Agent to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right, power or remedy by the Agent or any Lender preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. All remedies hereunder and under the other Loan Documents are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other remedies provided by law. Except as provided in the Credit Agreement, none of the Agent or the Lenders shall be deemed to have waived any rights hereunder or under any other agreement or instrument unless such waiver shall be in writing and signed by such parties. SECTION 11. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH AND GOVERNED BY THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF OHIO. SECTION 12. All communications and notices hereunder shall be in writing and given as provided in Section 9.01 of the Credit Agreement; PROVIDED that any communication or notice hereunder to any Guarantor shall be given to it in care of the Borrower at the address or telecopy or telex number specified in the Credit Agreement. SECTION 13. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect with respect to any Guarantor, no party hereto shall be required to comply with such provision with respect to such Guarantor for so long as such provision is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein, and of such provision with respect to any other Guarantor, shall not in any way be affected or impaired. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace any invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which come as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions. SECTION 14. This Guarantee may be released with respect to any Subsidiary that ceases to be a US Subsidiary as a result of a transaction that is permitted by the terms of the Credit Agreement.
6 SECTION 15. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which, when taken together, shall constitute but one instrument; PROVIDED that this Agreement shall be construed as a separate agreement with respect to each Guarantor and may be amended, modified, supplemented, waived or released with respect to any Guarantor without the approval of any other Guarantor and without affecting the obligations of any other Guarantor hereunder. This Agreement shall be effective with respect to any Guarantor when a counterpart which bears the signature of such Guarantor shall have been delivered to the Agent. SECTION 16. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF, UNDER OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION. SECTION 17. Upon execution and delivery by the Agent and any subsequently acquired or organized US Subsidiary of an instrument in the form of Annex 1 attached hereto, such subsequently acquired or organized US Subsidiary shall become a Guarantor hereunder with the same force and effect as if originally named as a Guarantor herein. The execution and delivery of any such instrument shall not require the consent of any Guarantor hereunder. The rights and obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the addition of any new Guarantor as a party to this Agreement. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written. ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ABERCROMBIE & FITCH HOLDING CORPORATION by: /s/ Michael Stevenson -----------------------------------------------
7 Name: Michael Stevenson Title: Vice President A&F TRADEMARK, INC. by: /s/ Michael Stevenson ----------------------------------------------- Name: Michael Stevenson Title: Vice President ABERCROMBIE & FITCH FULFILLMENT COMPANY by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ABERCROMBIE & FITCH DISTRIBUTION COMPANY by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer J.M.H. TRADEMARK, INC. by: /s/ Michael Stevenson ----------------------------------------------- Name: Michael Stevenson Title: Vice President
8 HOLLISTER CO. by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer J.M. HOLLISTER, LLC by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ABERCROMBIE & FITCH TRADING CO. by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ABERCROMBIE & FITCH STORES, INC. by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MERCHANDISING & DESIGN CO. by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
9 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH PROCUREMENT SERVICES, LLC by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer FAN COMPANY, LLC by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer A&F 2001, INC. by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Treasurer FITCH 2001, INC. by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Treasurer A&F WEST COAST HOLDING, INC. by: /s/ Sheri Gillery ----------------------------------------------- Name: Sheri Gillery Title: President
10 A&F MICHIGAN, INC. by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President HOLLISTER MICHIGAN, LLC by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President of A&F Michigan, Inc., its Sole Member HOLLISTER OHIO, LLC by: /s/ Michael Stevenson ----------------------------------------------- Name: Michael Stevenson Title: Vice President of A&F Ohio, Inc., its Sole Member HOLLISTER CALIFORNIA, LLC by: /s/ Jeffrey R. Sinkey ----------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey R. Sinkey Title: Manager A&F CALIFORNIA, LLC by: /s/ Jeffrey R. Sinkey ----------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey R. Sinkey Title: Manager A&F OHIO, INC. by: /s/ Michael Stevenson ----------------------------------------------- Name: Michael Stevenson Title: Vice President
11 CANOE, LLC by: /s/ Wesley McDonald Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., its Sole Member CROMBIE, LLC by: /s/ Wesley McDonald ----------------------------------------------- Name: Wesley McDonald Title: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., its Sole Member NATIONAL CITY BANK, as Administrative Agent by: /s/ Joseph L. Kwasny ----------------------------------------------- Name: Joseph L. Kwasny Title: Vice President
12 ANNEX 1 to the Guarantee Agreement SUPPLEMENT NO. dated as of , [ ] to the GUARANTEE AGREEMENT dated as of November 14, 2002, among ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO., a Delaware corporation ("Parent"), and each direct and indirect Subsidiary of Parent other than Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. (each a "US Subsidiary" and, together with Parent and any other Subsidiaries that become parties thereto as contemplated by Section 15 thereof, referred to herein individually as a "Guarantor" and collectively as the "Guarantors"), and NATIONAL CITY BANK, as administrative agent (the "Agent") for the Lenders (the "Lenders") party to the Credit Agreement dated as of November 14, 2002 (as amended from time to time, the "Credit Agreement"), among Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. (the "Borrower"), Parent, the Lenders party thereto and the Agent. The Guarantors have entered into the Guarantee Agreement in order to induce the Lenders to make Loans to the Borrower (such term and other capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein having the meanings assigned to such terms in the Guarantee Agreement and the Credit Agreement). Section 15 of the Guarantee Agreement provides that additional U.S. Subsidiaries may become Guarantors under the Guarantee Agreement by execution and delivery of an instrument in the form of this Supplement. The undersigned U.S. Subsidiary (the "New Guarantor") is executing this Supplement to become a Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement. As a Subsidiary, the New Guarantor acknowledges that it derives substantial benefits from the extension of credit to the Borrower under the Credit Agreement. Accordingly, the Agent and the New Guarantor agree as follows: SECTION 1. In accordance with Section 15 of the Guarantee Agreement, the New Guarantor by its signature below becomes a Guarantor under the Guarantee Agreement with the same force and effect as if originally named therein as a Guarantor and the New Guarantor hereby agrees to all the terms and provisions of the Guarantee Agreement applicable to it as a Guarantor thereunder. Each reference to a "Guarantor" in the Guarantee Agreement shall be deemed to include the New Guarantor. The Guarantee Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference. SECTION 2. The New Guarantor represents and warrants that this Supplement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by it and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and equitable principles of general applicability. SECTION 3. This Supplement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract. This Supplement shall become effective when the Agent shall have received a counterpart of this Supplement that bears the signature of the New Guarantor.
13 SECTION 4. Except as expressly supplemented hereby, the Guarantee Agreement shall remain in full force and effect. SECTION 5. THIS SUPPLEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF OHIO. SECTION 6. In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Supplement should be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, no party hereto shall be required to comply with such provision for so long as such provision is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained herein and in the Guarantee Agreement, and of any such provision with respect to any other Guarantor, shall not in any way be affected or impaired. The parties shall endeavor in good-faith negotiations to replace any invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions with valid provisions, the economic effect of which comes as close as possible to that of the invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions. SECTION 7. All communications and notices hereunder shall be in writing and given as provided in Section 12 of the Guarantee Agreement. All communications and notices hereunder to the New Guarantor shall be given to it at the address set forth under its signature below. SECTION 8. The New Guarantor agrees to reimburse the Agent for its out-of-pocket expenses in connection with this Supplement, including the fees, disbursements and other charges of counsel for the Agent. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the New Guarantor and the Agent have duly executed this Supplement to the Guarantee Agreement as of the day and year first above written. [NAME OF NEW GUARANTOR], by: ----------------------------------------- Name: Title: [Address] NATIONAL CITY BANK, as Administrative Agent, by: ----------------------------------------- Name: Title:


