FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20050317160159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
March 11, 2005
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL AGREEMENT
Performance Targets for Cash Bonus
     The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") on March 11, 2005, established the financial goals and incentive targets under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Incentive Compensation Performance Plan (the "Plan") for the semi-annual cash incentive (i.e., bonus) awards payable to the employees of the Registrant participating in the Plan, including each of the Registrant's named executive officers (other than Mr. Jeffries whose incentive target was established by the Compensation Committee shortly thereafter by written consent), with respect to fiscal year 2005. Each participant's incentive target is a percentage of the participant's base salary and the amount of the actual bonus payment could range from zero to double the incentive target, based upon the extent to which the pre-established semi-annual financial goals are met or exceeded. The financial goals under the Plan for the six-month operating season ending on July 30, 2005 and the six-month operating season ending on January 28, 2006 are each based on the net income of the Registrant during such period, with certain adjustments for changes in accounting standards. The incentive targets established for each of the named executive officers is set forth below:
Annual Base Salary Levels
     The Compensation Committee on March 11, 2005, established new annual base salary levels for each of the named executive officers (other than Mr. Jeffries), effective for fiscal year 2005, based on individual performance assessments and market data. The annual base salary levels for fiscal year 2004 and fiscal year 2005 for each of the named executive officers (other than Mr. Jeffries) is set forth below:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


