FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20050617143855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 15, 2005
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
.
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Approval of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan by Stockholders
     At the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 15, 2005 (the "2005 Annual Meeting"), the stockholders of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. ("A&F") approved the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2005 Plan"). The 2005 Plan is an equity-based incentive plan that will allow A&F to grant awards that will comply with the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Internal Revenue Code"). The following description of the 2005 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the 2005 Plan, which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
     . The 2005 Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee of A&F's Board of Directors. The Compensation Committee has the power in its discretion to grant awards under the 2005 Plan, to determine the terms thereof, to interpret the provisions of the 2005 Plan, and to take action as it deems necessary or advisable for the administration of the 2005 Plan.
Administration of the 2005 Plan
     . The 2005 Plan provides for awards during the term of the 2005 Plan with respect to a maximum of 2% of the sum of (i) the total shares of Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value, of A&F (the "Common Stock") outstanding, and (ii) the unexercised options and restricted stock units held by employees and non-employee directors as of April 6, 2005, which constitute 1,982,710 shares of Common Stock. Subject to the terms of the 2005 Plan, any of the 1,982,710 shares of Common Stock may be granted subject to "incentive stock options." The number and class of shares available under the 2005 Plan and/or subject to outstanding awards may be equitably adjusted by the Compensation Committee in the event of various changes in the capitalization of A&F.
Number of Authorized Shares
     . Eligibility to participate in the 2005 Plan is limited to (i) an employee of A&F or any subsidiary or affiliate of A&F who is subject to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), at the time of grant, and (ii) non-employee directors of A&F or any subsidiary or affiliate of A&F. However, Michael S. Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of A&F, will not be eligible to receive any awards under the 2005 Plan. No employee may be granted in any calendar year an award covering more than 250,000 shares of A&F's Common Stock (plus any portion of such limit that was unused as of the end of the previous year.) The foregoing limit is applied separately to each different type of award under the 2005 Plan. No non-employee director may be granted awards covering more than 10,000 shares of A&F's Common Stock in any calendar year; provided, however, that such annual limit does not include any "Deferred Stock Awards" (described below) granted in lieu of other forms of compensation.
Eligibility and Participation
     . The 2005 Plan provides that the Compensation Committee may grant awards to eligible participants in any of the following forms, subject to such terms, conditions and provisions as the Compensation Committee may determine to be necessary or desirable: (i) incentive stock options ("ISOs"); (ii) nonstatutory stock options
Type of Awards Under the 2005 Plan
Table of Contents
("NSOs"); (iii) Common Stock-settled stock appreciation rights ("SARs"); (iv) Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units; and (v) Deferred Stock Awards.
     . The Compensation Committee may award ISOs, NSOs (collectively, "Options"), and SARs to eligible participants. The Compensation Committee is also authorized to grant SARs in tandem with or as a component of other awards ("tandem SARs") or not in conjunction with other awards ("freestanding SARs") as well as SARs that are exercisable only in connection with a change of control of A&F (a "Limited SAR").
Grant of Options and SARs
     . The exercise price per share of an Option will be determined by the Compensation Committee and will in no event be less than 100% of the fair market value per share of A&F's Common Stock underlying the award on the date of grant. The Compensation Committee has the discretion to determine the exercise price and other terms of SARs, except that (i) the exercise price of a tandem SAR will not be less than the exercise price of the related Option, and (ii) the exercise price of a freestanding SAR will be fixed as of the date of grant and will not be less than the fair market value of a share of A&F's Common Stock on the date of grant. Without the approval of A&F's stockholders, the Compensation Committee will not amend or replace previously granted Options or SARs in a transaction that constitutes a "repricing," within the meaning of Section 303A.08 of the Listed Company Manual of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE").
Exercise Price of Options and SARs
     The sole and exclusive basis for determining both the vesting and exercisability of an Option will be the passage of a specific period of time or the occurrence or non-occurrence of certain specific non-performance related events (e.g., death, disability, termination of employment and a change of control of A&F). The Compensation Committee has the discretion to determine when and under what circumstances an SAR can be exercised.
Vesting of Options and SARs
.
     . In the case of a grant of an Option intended to qualify as an ISO, no such Option may be granted to a participant who owns, at the time of the grant, stock representing more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of A&F or its subsidiaries (a "10% Shareholder") unless the exercise price per share of A&F's Common Stock subject to such ISO is at least 110% of the fair market value per share of A&F's Common Stock on the date of grant and such ISO award is not exercisable more than five years after its date of grant. In addition, Options designated as ISOs will not be eligible for treatment under the Internal Revenue Code as ISOs to the extent that either (i) the aggregate fair market value of shares of Common Stock (determined as of the time of grant) with respect to which such ISOs are exercisable for the first time by the participant during any calendar year (under all plans of A&F and its subsidiaries) exceeds $100,000 or (ii) such ISOs otherwise remain exercisable but are not exercised within three months of termination of employment (or such other period of time provided in Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code).
Special Limitations on ISOs
     . The Compensation Committee has the discretion to determine the method or methods by which an Option or SAR may be exercised. Upon the exercise of an SAR, a participant is entitled to receive shares of Common Stock having an aggregate fair market value equal to (i) the excess of (a) the fair market value of one share of Common Stock as of the date of exercise (or, in the case of a Limited SAR, the fair market value
Exercise of Options and SARs
Table of Contents
determined by reference to the change of control price stipulated by the related award agreement), over (b) the exercise price of the shares of Common Stock covered by the SAR, multiplied by (ii) the number of shares of Common Stock covered by the SAR, or the portion thereof being exercised. Any fractional shares resulting from the exercise of an SAR will be paid in cash.
     . Options and SARs will expire at such time as the Compensation Committee determines; provided, however, that no Option or SAR may be exercised more than ten years from the date of grant, except in the case of an ISO held by a 10% Shareholder, in which case such ISO may not be exercised more than five years from the date of grant.
Expiration of Options and SARs
     . The Compensation Committee has the discretion to grant both Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units to participants. The grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units will occur at such times and in such installments as determined by the Compensation Committee or under criteria established by the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee will have the right to make the timing of the grant and/or the issuance, ability to retain, vesting and/or settlement of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units subject to continued employment, passage of time and/or such performance conditions as deemed appropriate by the Compensation Committee; provided that the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of an award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units that is based in whole or in part on performance conditions will be subject to a performance period of not less than one year, and any award based solely on continued employment or the passage of time will vest over a period of not less than three years from the date the award is made (but such vesting may occur ratably over the three-year period). These minimum vesting conditions need not apply (i) if the participant dies, becomes disabled, retires (within the meaning of the 2005 Plan) or terminates employment in connection with a change of control of A&F, and (ii) with respect to up to an aggregate of 5% of the shares of Common Stock authorized under the 2005 Plan, which can be granted as Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units without regard to such minimum vesting requirements.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units
     Holders of Restricted Stock have all the rights of a stockholder of A&F, such as the right to vote the underlying shares of Common Stock or receive dividends and other distributions, except to the extent restricted by the terms of the 2005 Plan or any award document relating to the Restricted Stock and subject to any mandatory reinvestment or other requirement imposed by the Compensation Committee. Holders of Restricted Stock Units will not have any such stockholder rights until shares of Common Stock have been issued to them upon vesting, although that the Compensation Committee may provide for dividend equivalent rights.
     . Non-employee directors may voluntarily defer all or a part of their retainers, meeting fees and Common Stock-based awards under the provisions of the Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, or any successor plan providing for deferral of compensation by non-employee directors. The dollar value of such deferrals is credited to a notional account in the form of Deferred Stock Awards. The deferred account balances will be settled in shares of Common Stock issued under the 2005 Plan, based on each non-employee director's election.
Deferred Stock Awards
Table of Contents
     . If the Compensation Committee specifies that any grant of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code, the grant, issuance, vesting, and/or settlement of such award will be contingent upon the achievement of a pre-established performance goal in accordance with provisions of Section 162(m) and the related regulations, as more fully described below. Achievement of performance goals will be measured over a performance period of one year or more, as specified by the Compensation Committee. A performance goal will be established not later than the earlier of (i) 90 days after the beginning of any performance period applicable to the performance-based award or (ii) the time 25% of such performance period has elapsed.
Performance-Based Compensation
     Settlement of performance-based awards will be in cash or Common Stock, in the Compensation Committee's discretion. The Compensation Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of a settlement otherwise to be made. Any settlement which changes the form of payment from that originally specified will be implemented in a manner such that the award and other related awards do not thereby fail to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Compensation Committee will specify the circumstances in which performance-based awards will be paid or forfeited in the event of the participant's death, disability or retirement, in connection with a change of control of A&F or, subject to the one-year performance requirement described above in the discussion of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units, in connection with any other termination of employment prior to the end of a performance period or settlement of such awards.
     If at any time after the date a participant has been granted or becomes vested in an award pursuant to the achievement of a performance goal, the Compensation Committee determines that the earlier determination as to the achievement of the performance goal was based on incorrect data and that the goal had not in fact been achieved, or had been achieved to a lesser extent than originally determined and a portion of an award would not have been granted, vested or paid, given the correct data, then (i) such portion of the award that was granted will be forfeited and any related shares (or, if such shares were disposed of, the cash equivalent) will be returned to A&F as provided by the Compensation Committee, (ii) such portion of the award that became vested will be deemed to be not vested and any related shares (or if such shares were disposed of, the cash equivalent) will be returned to A&F as provided by the Compensation Committee, and (iii) such portion of the award paid to the participant will be paid by the participant to A&F upon notice from A&F as provided by the Compensation Committee.
     For purposes of the 2005 Plan, a "performance goal" will mean any one or more of the following business criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either A&F as a whole or to a business unit or subsidiary, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Compensation Committee:
Table of Contents
     . Unless A&F's Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee provides otherwise prior to a change of control, in the event of a change of control of A&F, the following provisions will apply to outstanding awards. In the case of an award that is not a performance-based award, in the event that (i) the acquiring or surviving entity assumes and maintains the award, but terminates the participant without cause within three months prior to or eighteen months after such change of control, or (ii) the acquiring or surviving entity does not assume and maintain such award, Options and SARs will vest immediately and be exercisable for two years (or such longer post-termination exercisability term as may be specified in the Option or SAR) following the date of termination of employment, subject to the stated term of the award, and Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units will vest immediately and be settled in full.
Change of Control
     In the case of performance-based awards, if 50% or more of the related performance period has elapsed as of the date of the change of control, the participant will be entitled to a pro-rated portion of the award based on performance through a date occurring within three months prior to the date of the change of control, as determined by the Compensation Committee prior to the change of control. If less than 50% of the related performance period has elapsed as of the date of the change of control, the participant will be entitled to a pro-rated portion of the target amount of the award. In no event will payment be accelerated to a date that is earlier than the earliest date as of which distribution from the 2005 Plan would be permitted by Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code without triggering the application of the additional tax described in Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code.
Table of Contents
     A "change of control" means, unless otherwise specified by the Compensation Committee in an award agreement, an occurrence of a nature that would be required to be reported by A&F in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act and will be deemed to have occurred as of the first day that any of the following conditions are met: (i) securities representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of A&F's then outstanding securities are acquired by a person deemed an "Acquiring Person" under the Rights Agreement dated as of July 16, 1998, as amended, between A&F and National City Bank, as successor Rights Agent, (ii) A&F merges or consolidates with another company, unless the voting securities of A&F immediately prior to the merger or consolidation continue to represent 80% or more of the combined voting power of A&F or the surviving entity, (iii) more than 50% of A&F's assets or earning power on a consolidated basis is sold, exchanged, leased, mortgaged, pledged, transferred, or otherwise disposed of, (iv) A&F is completely liquidated or dissolved, (v) any reorganization, reverse stock split or recapitalization occurs that would result in a change of control (as defined), or (vi) any transaction or series of related transactions occurs having, directly or indirectly, the same effect as any of the foregoing.
     . Unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee, awards granted under the 2005 Plan to participants, other than non-employee directors, are subject to forfeiture in the event of the participant's breach of certain restrictive covenants. Specifically, in the event of such a breach, the unexercised portion of any Option (whether or not vested) and any other award not yet settled will be immediately forfeited, and the participant will be required to repay to A&F, in cash, any award gain (as defined below) realized by the participant upon exercise of Options or settlement of awards that occurred on or after (i) the date that is six months prior to the date the employee breached the restrictive covenant, if the breach occurred while the employee was still employed by A&F or a subsidiary or affiliate of A&F, and (ii) the date that is six months prior to the employee's termination of employment. Such a breach will occur if, during the employee's employment with A&F or a subsidiary or affiliate of A&F or during the one-year period following the employee's termination of employment, the employee (i) competes with A&F or a subsidiary or affiliate of A&F, induces customers or suppliers to abandon their relationship with A&F or a subsidiary or affiliate of A&F, or induces other employees to terminate their employment with A&F or a subsidiary or affiliate of A&F, or (ii) discloses certain confidential or proprietary information of A&F or a subsidiary or affiliate of A&F, or (iii) fails to cooperate with A&F or a subsidiary or affiliate of A&F, including in connection with certain legal proceedings and actions. "Award gain" is defined for this purpose as (i) in the case of an Option, the spread between the fair market value of the underlying Common Stock on the exercise date and the exercise price, multiplied by the number of shares as to which the Option was exercised on that date, and (ii) in all other cases, the fair market value of the Common Stock or cash payable under the award, less certain consideration paid by the participant to settle the award.
Certain Events of Forfeiture
     . No award or other right or interest of a participant under the 2005 Plan may be pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered or subject to any lien, obligation or liability of such participant to any party (other than A&F or a subsidiary or affiliate of A&F), or assigned or transferred by such participant otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or to a beneficiary upon the death of a participant, and such awards or rights that may be exercisable are to be exercised during the lifetime of the participant only by the participant or his or her guardian or legal representative, except that awards and other rights (other
Nontransferability of Awards
Table of Contents
than ISOs and SARs in tandem therewith) may be transferred to one or more transferees during the lifetime of a participant and may be exercised by such transferees in accordance with the terms of such award, but only if and to the extent such transfers are permitted by the Compensation Committee, subject to any terms and conditions which the Compensation Committee may impose thereon.
     . The Compensation Committee is authorized to withhold from awards and related payments (including Common Stock distributions) amounts of withholding and other taxes due or potentially payable in connection with any transaction involving an award by withholding Common Stock or other property, requiring a participant to remit to A&F an amount in cash or other property (including Common Stock) to satisfy such withholding requirements or by taking certain other actions. A&F can delay the delivery to a participant of Common Stock under any award to allow A&F to determine the amount of withholding to be collected and to collect and process such withholding.
Tax Withholding and Tax Offset Payments
     . Unless earlier terminated by the Board of Directors of A&F, the authority of the Compensation Committee to make grants under the Plan will terminate on the date that is ten years after the latest date upon which stockholders of A&F have approved the 2005 Plan.
Term of 2005 Plan
     . The Board of Directors of A&F may suspend, amend or terminate the 2005 Plan; provided, however, that A&F's stockholders will be required to approve any amendment (i) to the extent required by law or NYSE rules, (ii) that would materially increase the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable under the 2005 Plan, (iii) that would alter the 2005 Plan's provisions restricting A&F's ability to grant Options or SARs with an exercise price that is not less than the fair market value of the underlying Common Stock, or (iv) in connection with any action to amend or replace previously granted Options or SARs in a transaction that constitutes a "repricing" as such term is used in Section 303A.08 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual.
Amendment and Termination
     Awards granted prior to a termination of the 2005 Plan will continue in accordance with their terms following such termination. No amendment, suspension or termination of the 2005 Plan will adversely affect the rights of a participant in awards previously granted without such participant's consent.
For additional information about the 2005 Plan, please refer to "" on pages 36 through 43 of A&F's Proxy Statement for the 2005 Annual Meeting, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on May 12, 2005, which is incorporated herein by reference.
PROPOSAL TO APPROVE ADOPTION OF THE ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 2005 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Election of Daniel J. Brestle to Board of Directors
     At the annual meeting of A&F's Board of Directors held on June 15, 2005 (the "Board Annual Meeting"), the Board of Directors elected Daniel J. Brestle as a director of A&F. Mr. Brestle had been identified as a director candidate by the independent search firm of Heidrick & Struggles, which firm A&F had retained to assist A&F in searching for qualified and independent Board members. At the Board Annual Meeting, as permitted by A&F's Amended and Restated Bylaws, the A&F Board increased the number of directors from ten to eleven, and Mr. Brestle was elected to fill the vacancy created by the increase, in each case upon the unanimous recommendation of the Nominating and Board Governance Committee. In accordance with the provisions of A&F's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Mr. Brestle joins A&F's class of directors whose terms of office will expire at the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
     Mr. Brestle currently serves as the Chief Operating Officer for The Estee Lauder Companies Inc. The A&F Board of Directors determined that Mr. Brestle has no relationship with A&F, either directly or indirectly, including, without limitation, any commercial, industrial, banking, consulting, legal, accounting, charitable or familial relationship, that would be inconsistent with a determination of independence under the applicable sections of the NYSE Listed Company Manual or the applicable rules and regulations of the SEC, including Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. The A&F Board of Directors also determined that Mr. Brestle qualifies as an "outside director" for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.
     Mr. Brestle's nomination did not appear in A&F's proxy materials for the 2005 Annual Meeting because of his very recent identification to A&F by Heidrick & Struggles. Mr. Brestle was first introduced personally to A&F after it had mailed its proxy materials to its stockholders on May 12, 2005. A&F then accelerated its evaluation process in order to fully consider his qualifications and experience, in order to present his candidacy as a director at the earliest practicable time. The Nominating and Board Governance Committee and the Board of Directors of A&F both concluded that the strength of Mr. Brestle's qualifications and his independence indicated that it would be in the best interest of A&F for him to be elected to the Board of Directors at the earliest practicable time, rather than waiting until the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to do so.
     As discussed below in "Item 8.01. Other Events," at the Board Annual Meeting, the A&F Board of Directors appointed Mr. Brestle to serve as a member of the Compensation Committee.
     On June 15, 2005, A&F issued a news release announcing the election of Mr. Brestle as a director. The news release is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Election of Directors at 2005 Annual Meeting and Continuing Directors
     At the 2005 Annual Meeting, each of Russell M. Gertmenian, Archie M. Griffin and Allan A. Tuttle was elected by the A&F stockholders as a director of A&F to serve for a three-year term expiring at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders in 2008.
     The directors of A&F whose terms of office continue until the 2006 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are: James B. Bachmann; Lauren J. Brisky; Michael S. Jeffries; and John W. Kessler.
     The directors of A&F whose terms of office continue until the 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are: Daniel J. Brestle (following his election at the Board Annual Meeting); John A. Golden; Edward F. Limato; and Robert S. Singer.
Ratification by Stockholders of Appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
     At the 2005 Annual Meeting, the stockholders of A&F ratified the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as A&F's registered public accounting firm for the fiscal year ending January 28, 2006.
Appointment of Committee Members
     At the Annual Board Meeting, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Board Governance Committee, the A&F Board made the following appointments of members to serve on the committees of the Board:
     The A&F Board of Directors also created a special committee which will report to the Board of Directors and, among other things, will conduct a full review of its corporate governance practices and procedures. The special committee members will be Lauren J. Brisky (Chair); James B. Bachmann; and Allan A. Tuttle.
Table of Contents
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c) :
Exhibits
     The following exhibits are filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
      The purpose of this 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to aid Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the "Company"), in attracting, retaining, motivating and rewarding certain employees and non-employee directors of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, to provide for equitable and competitive compensation opportunities, to recognize individual contributions and reward achievement of Company goals, and promote the creation of long-term value for stockholders by closely aligning the interests of Participants with those of stockholders. The Plan authorizes stock based incentives for Participants.
1. Purpose.
      In addition to the terms defined in Section 1 above and elsewhere in the Plan, the following capitalized terms used in the Plan have the respective meanings set forth in this Section:
2. Definitions.
 
     
3. Administration.
      (a)  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have full and final authority, in each case subject to and consistent with the provisions of the Plan, to select Eligible Persons to become Participants; to grant Awards; to determine the type and number of Awards, the
Authority of the Committee.
 
dates on which Awards may be exercised and on which the risk of forfeiture or deferral period relating to Awards shall lapse or terminate, the acceleration of any such dates, the expiration date of any Award, whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled, or the exercise price of an Award may be paid, in cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, and other terms and conditions of, and all other matters relating to, Awards; to prescribe documents evidencing or setting terms of Awards (such Award documents need not be identical for each Participant), amendments thereto, and rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan and amendments thereto (including outstanding Awards; to construe and interpret the Plan and Award documents and correct defects, supply omissions or reconcile inconsistencies therein; and to make all other decisions and determinations as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Decisions of the Committee with respect to the administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all persons interested in the Plan, including Participants, Beneficiaries, transferees under Section 11(b) and other persons claiming rights from or through a Participant, and stockholders.
)
      (b)  The express grant of any specific power to the Committee, and the taking of any action by the Committee, shall not be construed as limiting any power or authority of the Committee. The Committee may act through subcommittees, including for purposes of perfecting exemptions under Rule 16b-3 or qualifying Awards under Code Section 162(m) as performance-based compensation, in which case the subcommittee shall be subject to and have authority under the charter applicable to the Committee, and the acts of the subcommittee shall be deemed to be acts of the Committee hereunder. The Committee may delegate the administration of the Plan to one or more officers or employees of the Company, and such administrator(s) may have the authority to execute and distribute Award agreements or other documents evidencing or relating to Awards granted by the Committee under this Plan, to maintain records relating to Awards, to process or oversee the issuance of Stock under Awards, to interpret and administer the terms of Awards and to take such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Plan and of Awards under the Plan, provided that in no case shall any such administrator be authorized (i) to grant Awards under the Plan, (ii) to take any action that would result in the loss of an exemption under Rule 16b-3 for Awards granted to or held by Participants who at the time are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of the Company or that would cause Awards intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) to fail to so qualify, (iii) to take any action inconsistent with Section 157 and other applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) to make any determination required to be made by the Committee under the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards applicable to listed company compensation committees (currently, Rule 303A.05). Any action by any such administrator within the scope of its delegation shall be deemed for all purposes to have been taken by the Committee and, except as otherwise specifically provided, references in this Plan to the Committee shall include any such administrator. The Committee established pursuant to Section 1.3(a) and, to the extent it so provides, any subcommittee, shall have sole authority to determine whether to review any actions and/or interpretations of any such administrator, and if the Committee shall decide to conduct such a review, any such actions and/or interpretations of any such administrator shall be subject to approval, disapproval or modification by the Committee.
Manner of Exercise of Committee Authority.
      (c)  The Committee and each member thereof, and any person acting pursuant to authority delegated by the Committee, shall be entitled, in good faith, to rely or act upon any report or other information furnished by any executive officer, other officer or employee of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, the Company's independent auditors, consultants or any other agents assisting in the administration of the Plan. Members of the Committee, any person acting pursuant to authority
Limitation of Liability.
 
delegated by the Committee, and any officer or employee of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate acting at the direction or on behalf of the Committee or a delegee shall not be personally liable for any action or determination taken or made in good faith with respect to the Plan, and shall, to the extent permitted by law, be fully indemnified and protected by the Company with respect to any such action or determination.
     
4. Stock Subject to Plan.
      (a)  The total number of shares of Stock reserved and available for delivery in connection with Awards under the Plan shall be two percent of the sum of (i) the total common shares outstanding and (ii) the unexercised options and restricted stock units held by employees and non-employee directors as of April 6, 2005, or 1,982,710 shares. Subject to limitations provided in Section 6(b)(iv), any of the 1,982,710 authorized shares may be granted as ISOs. The total number of shares available is subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c). Any shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall consist of authorized and unissued shares or treasury shares.
Overall Number of Shares Available for Delivery.
      (b)  The Committee may adopt reasonable counting procedures to ensure appropriate counting, avoid double counting (as, for example, in the case of tandem or substitute awards) and make adjustments in accordance with this Section 4(b). To the extent that an Award under the Plan is canceled, expired, forfeited, settled in cash, settled by issuance of fewer shares than the number underlying the Award, or otherwise terminated without delivery of shares to the Participant, the shares retained by or returned to the Company will be available under the Plan; and shares that are withheld from such an Award or separately surrendered by the Participant in payment of any exercise price or taxes relating to such an Award shall be deemed to constitute shares not delivered to the Participant and will be available under the Plan. In addition, in the case of any Award granted in assumption of or in substitution for an award of a company or business acquired by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate or with which the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate combines, shares issued or issuable in connection with such substitute Award shall not be counted against the number of shares reserved under the Plan.
Share Counting Rules.
     
5. Eligibility; Per-Person Award Limitations.
      (a)  Awards may be granted under the Plan only to Eligible Persons. For purposes of the Plan, an "Eligible Person" means (i) an employee of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate who is subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act at the time of grant, including any person who has been offered employment by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, provided that such prospective employee may not receive any payment or exercise any right relating to an Award until such person has commenced employment with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, and (ii) any non-employee directors of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate. An employee on leave of absence may be considered as still in the employ of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate for purposes of eligibility for participation in the Plan, if so determined by the Committee. For purposes of the Plan, a joint venture in which the Company or a subsidiary has a substantial direct or indirect equity investment shall be deemed an affiliate, if so determined by the Committee. Holders of awards granted by a company or business acquired by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, or with which the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate combines, who will become Eligible Persons are eligible for grants of substitute awards granted in assumption of or in substitution for such outstanding awards previously granted under the Plan in connection with such acquisition or combination transaction, if so determined by the Committee.
Eligibility.
      (b)  In each calendar year during any part of which the Plan is in effect, an Eligible Person may be granted Awards under each of Section 6(b), 6(c), 6(d), or 6(e) relating to up to his or her Annual Limit (such Annual Limit to apply separately to the type of Award authorized under
Per-Person Award Limitations.
 
each specified subsection). A Participant's Annual Limit, in any year during any part of which the Participant is then eligible under the Plan, shall equal two hundred and fifty thousand (250,000) shares plus the amount of the Participant's unused Annual Limit relating to the same type of Award as of the close of the previous year, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c).
      (c)  Non-employee directors may be granted any type of Award under the Plan, but a non-employee director may be granted Awards relating to no more than 10,000 shares annually, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c). Such annual limit shall not include any Deferred Stock Awards granted in lieu of other forms of compensation.
Limits on Non-Employee Director Awards.
     
6. Specific Terms of Awards.
      (a)  Awards may be granted on the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6. In addition, the Committee may impose on any Award or the exercise thereof, at the date of grant or thereafter (subject to Sections 11(e) and 11(k)), such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine, including terms requiring forfeiture of Awards in the event of termination of employment or service by the Participant and terms permitting a Participant to make elections relating to his or her Award. The Committee shall retain full power and discretion with respect to any term or condition of an Award that is not mandatory under the Plan, subject to Section 11(k). The Committee shall require the payment of lawful consideration for an Award to the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and may otherwise require payment of consideration for an Award except as limited by the Plan.
General.
      (b)  The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Options.
 
      (c)  The Committee is authorized to grant SARs to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
      (d)  The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Restricted Stock.
 
      (e)  The Committee is authorized to grant RSUs to Participants, subject to the following terms and conditions:
Restricted Stock Units.
 
      (f)  Non-employee directors may voluntarily defer all or a part of their retainers, meeting fees, and Stock-based Awards under the provisions of the 1998 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended in 2003, or any successor plan providing for deferral of compensation by non-employee directors. The dollar value of such deferrals is credited to a notional account in the form of Deferred Stock Awards. The deferred account balances will be settled in the form of Stock issued under the Plan, based on each non-employee director's election.
Deferred Stock Awards.
     
7. Performance-Based Compensation.
      (a)  If the Committee specifies that any Restricted Stock or RSU Award is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Code Section 162(m), the grant, issuance, vesting and/or settlement of such Award shall be contingent upon achievement of preestablished performance goals and other terms set forth in this Section 7. The performance goal for such Awards shall consist of one or more business criteria and the level or levels of performance with respect to each of such criteria, as specified by the Committee consistent with this Section 7. The performance goal shall be an objective business criteria enumerated under Section 7(c) and shall otherwise meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder, including the requirement that the level or levels of performance targeted by the Committee result in the achievement of performance goals being "substantially uncertain". Performance goals may differ for Awards granted to any one Participant or to different Participants.
Performance Goals Generally.
      (b)  A performance goal shall be established not later than the earlier of (A) 90 days after the beginning of any performance period applicable to such performance-based Award or (B) the time 25% of such performance period has elapsed.
Timing for Establishing Performance Conditions.
      (c)  For purposes of this Plan, a "performance goal" shall mean any one or more of the following business criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit or subsidiary, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee:
Business Criteria.
 
      (d)  Determinations by the Committee as to the establishment of performance conditions, the amount potentially payable in respect of performance-based Awards, the level of actual achievement of the specified performance conditions relating to such Awards, and the amount of any final Award shall be recorded in writing in the case of Awards intended to qualify under Section 162(m). Specifically, the Committee shall certify in writing, in a manner conforming to applicable regulations under Section 162(m), prior to settlement of each such Award granted to a Covered Employee, that the performance objective relating to the performance-based Award and other material terms of the Award upon which settlement of the Award was conditioned have been satisfied.
Written Determinations.
      (e)  Settlement of performance-based Awards shall be in cash or Stock, in the Committee's discretion. The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of a settlement otherwise to be made in connection with such Awards. Any settlement which changes the form of payment from that originally specified shall be implemented in a manner such that the Award and other related Awards do not, solely for that reason, fail to qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Code Section 162(m). The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which such Awards shall be paid or forfeited in the event of a Participant's death, disability or Retirement, in connection with a Change of Control or, subject to the one-year performance condition set forth in Sections 6(d)(ii) and (e)(ii), in connection with any other termination of employment prior to the end of a performance period or settlement of such Awards.
Settlement of performance-based Awards; Other Terms.
      (f)  If at any time after the date on which a Participant has been granted or becomes vested in an Award pursuant to the achievement of a performance goal under Section 7(c), the Committee determines that the earlier determination as to the achievement of the performance goal was based on incorrect data and that in fact the performance goal had not been achieved or had been achieved to a lesser extent than originally determined and a portion of an Award would not have been granted, vested or paid, given the correct data, then (i) such portion of the Award that was granted shall be forfeited and any related shares (or if such shares were disposed of the cash equivalent) shall be returned to the Company as provided by the Committee, (ii) such portion of the Award that became vested shall be deemed to be not vested and any related shares (or if such shares were disposed of the cash equivalent) shall be returned to the Company as provided by the Committee, and (iii) such portion of the Award paid to the Participant shall be paid by the Participant to the Company upon notice from the Company as provided by the Committee.
Right of Recapture.
     
8. Certain Provisions Applicable to Awards.
      (a)  Awards granted under the Plan may, in the Committee's discretion, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution or exchange for, any other Award or any award granted under another plan of the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, or any business entity to be acquired by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, or any other right of a Participant to receive payment from the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards or awards may be granted either as of the same time as or a different time from the grant of such other Awards or awards.
Stand-Alone, Additional, and Tandem Awards.
      (b)  The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee, subject to the express limitations set forth in Sections 6(b)(iii) and 6(c)(iii) or elsewhere in the Plan.
Term of Awards.
 
      (c)  Subject to the terms of the Plan (including Sections 11(k) and (l)) and any applicable Award document, payments to be made by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate upon the exercise of an Option or other Award or settlement of an Award may be made in such forms as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis. The settlement of any Award may be accelerated, and cash paid in lieu of Stock in connection with such settlement, in the Committee's discretion or upon occurrence of one or more specified events, subject to Sections 6(b)(iv), 11(k) and 11(l).
Form and Timing of Payment under Awards.
     
9. Change of Control.
      (a)  Unless the Board or Committee provides otherwise (either at the time of grant of an Award or thereafter) prior to a Change of Control, this Section 9(a) shall govern the treatment of any Option, SAR, Restricted Stock or RSU, the exercisability, vesting and/or settlement of which is based solely upon continued employment or passage of time. In the case of an Award subject to this Section 9(a) that the acquiring or surviving company in the Change of Control assumes upon and maintains following the Change of Control (which Award shall be adjusted as to the number and kind of shares as may be determined appropriate by the Committee prior to the Change of Control), if there occurs an involuntary termination without cause of the Participant holding such Award (excluding voluntary resignation, death, disability or Retirement) within three months prior to or eighteen months following the Change of Control such Award shall be treated as provided in clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 9(a), as applicable. In the case of an Award subject to this Section 9(a) that the acquiring or surviving company in the Change of Control does not assume upon the Change of Control, immediately prior to the Change of Control such Award shall be treated as provided in clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 9(a), as applicable. The treatment provided for under this Section 9(a) is as follows:
Impact of Event.
      (b)  Unless the Committee specifies otherwise in the terms of an Award prior to a Change of Control, this Section 9(b) shall control the treatment of any Restricted Stock or RSU if at the time of the Change of Control the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of such Award is based in whole or in part on performance criteria and level of achievement versus such criteria. In the case of an Award subject to this Section 9(b) in which fifty percent (50%) or more of the performance period applicable to the Award has elapsed as of the date of the Change of Control, the Participant shall be entitled to payment, vesting or settlement of such Award based upon performance through a date occurring within three months prior to the date of the Change of Control, as determined by the Committee prior to the Change of Control, and pro-rated based upon the percentage of
Effect of Change of Control upon performance-based Awards.
 
the performance period that has elapsed between the date such Award was granted and the date of the Change of Control. In the case of an Award subject to this Section 9(b) in which less than fifty percent (50%) of the performance period applicable to the Award has elapsed as of the date of the Change of Control, the Participant shall be entitled to payment, vesting or settlement of the target amount of such Award, as determined by the Committee prior to the Change of Control, pro-rated based upon the percentage of the performance period that has elapsed between the date such Award was granted and the date of the Change of Control. The Committee may determine either in advance or at the time of the Change of Control the treatment of the pro-rata portion of an Award attributable to the portion of the performance period occurring after the date of the Change of Control.
      Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the treatment specified in Sections 9(a) and (b) apply with respect to an Award prior to the earliest to occur of (A) the date such amounts would have been distributed in the absence of the Change of Control, (B) a Participant's "separation from service" (as defined under Section 409A of the Code) with the Company (or six months thereafter for "specified employees"), (C) the Participant's death or "disability" (as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code), or (D) a "change in the ownership or effective control" of the Company or in the "ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meanings ascribed to such terms in Treasury Department regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code, if and to the extent that the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that the effect of such treatment prior to the time specified in this Section 9(b)(A), (B), (C) or (D) would be the imposition of the additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code on a Participant holding such Award.
      (c)  For purposes of the Plan, the term "Change of Control" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in an Award agreement, an occurrence of a nature that would be required to be reported by the Company in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A issued under the Exchange Act. Without limiting the inclusiveness of the definition in the preceding sentence, a Change of Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day that any one or more of the following conditions is satisfied:
Definition of Change of Control.
 
     
10. Additional Award Forfeiture Provisions.
      (a)  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, each Award granted hereunder, other than Awards granted to non-employee directors, shall be subject to the following additional forfeiture conditions, to which the Participant, by accepting an Award hereunder, agrees. If any of the events specified in Section 10(b)(i), (ii), or (iii) occurs (a "Forfeiture Event"), all of the following forfeitures will result:
Forfeiture of Options and Other Awards and Gains Realized Upon Prior Option Exercises or Award Settlements.
      (b)  The forfeitures specified in Section 10(a) will be triggered upon the occurrence of any one of the following Forfeiture Events at any time during Participant's employment by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, or during the one-year period following termination of such employment:
Events Triggering Forfeiture.
 
      (c)  Although the conditions set forth in this Section 10 shall be deemed to be incorporated into an Award, a Participant is not thereby prohibited from engaging in any activity, including but not limited to competition with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates. Rather, the non-occurrence of the Forfeiture Events set forth in Section 10(b) is a condition to the Participant's right to realize and retain value from his or her compensatory Options and Awards, and the consequence under the Plan if the Participant engages in an activity giving rise to any such Forfeiture Event are the forfeitures specified herein. The Company and Participant shall not be precluded by this provision or otherwise from entering into other agreements concerning the subject matter of Sections 10(a) and 10(b).
Agreement Does Not Prohibit Competition or Other Participant Activities.
      (d)  The Committee may, in its discretion, waive in whole or in part the Company's right to forfeiture under this Section, but no such waiver shall be effective unless evidenced by a writing signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company. In addition, the Committee may impose additional conditions on Awards, by inclusion of appropriate provisions in the document evidencing or governing any such Award.
Committee Discretion.
     
11. General Provisions.
      (a)  The Company may, to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the Committee and subject to Section 11(k), postpone the issuance or delivery of Stock or payment of other benefits under any Award until completion of such registration or qualification of such Stock or other required action under any federal or state law, rule or regulation, listing or other required action with respect to any stock exchange or automated quotation system upon which the Stock or other securities of the Company are listed or quoted, or compliance with any other obligation of the Company, as the Committee may consider appropriate, and may require any Participant to make such representations, furnish such information and comply with or be subject to such other conditions as it may
Compliance with Legal and Other Requirements.
 
consider appropriate in connection with the issuance or delivery of Stock or payment of other benefits in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, listing requirements, or other obligations. The foregoing notwithstanding, in connection with a Change of Control, the Company shall take or cause to be taken no action, and shall undertake or permit to arise no legal or contractual obligation, that results or would result in any postponement of the issuance or delivery of Stock or payment of benefits under any Award or the imposition of any other conditions on such issuance, delivery or payment, to the extent that such postponement or other condition would represent a greater burden on a Participant than existed on the 90th day preceding the Change of Control.
      (b)  No Award or other right or interest of a Participant under the Plan shall be pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered or subject to any lien, obligation or liability of such Participant to any party (other than the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate thereof), or assigned or transferred by such Participant otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or to a Beneficiary upon the death of a Participant, and such Awards or rights that may be exercisable shall be exercised during the lifetime of the Participant only by the Participant or his or her guardian or legal representative, except that Awards and other rights (other than ISOs and SARs in tandem therewith) may be transferred to one or more transferees during the lifetime of the Participant, and may be exercised by such transferees in accordance with the terms of such Award, but only if and to the extent such transfers are permitted by the Committee, subject to any terms and conditions which the Committee may impose thereon (which may include limitations the Committee may deem appropriate in order that offers and sales under the Plan will meet applicable requirements of registration forms under the Securities Act of 1933 specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission). A Beneficiary, transferee, or other person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Participant shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award document applicable to such Participant, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, and to any additional terms and conditions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee.
Limits on Transferability; Beneficiaries.
      (c)  In the event that any large, special and non-recurring dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash or property other than Stock), recapitalization, forward or reverse split, Stock dividend, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, repurchase, share exchange, liquidation, dissolution or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Stock such that an adjustment is determined by the Committee to be appropriate, then the Committee shall, in an equitable manner as determined by the Committee, adjust any or all of (i) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other securities of the Company or other issuer which are subject to the Plan, (ii) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other securities of the Company or other issuer by which annual per-person Award limitations are measured under Section 5, including the share limits applicable to non-employee director Awards under Section 5(c), (iii) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other securities of the Company or other issuer subject to or deliverable in respect of outstanding Awards and (iv) the exercise price, settlement price or purchase price relating to any Award or, if deemed appropriate, the Committee may make provision for a payment of cash or property to the holder of an outstanding Option (subject to Sections 11(k) and 11(l)) or other Award. In addition, the Committee is authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards (including performance-based Awards and performance goals and any hypothetical funding pool relating thereto) in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, events described in the preceding sentence, as well as acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and assets affecting any performance conditions), or in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles; provided that no such adjustment shall be authorized or made if and to the extent that the existence of such authority (i) would cause Options, SARs, Restricted Stock or RSUs granted under the Plan to Participants designated by the Committee as Covered Employees and intended to
Adjustments.
 
qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder to otherwise fail to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder, or (ii) would cause the Committee to be deemed to have authority to change the targets, within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.162-27(e)(4)(vi), under the performance goals relating to Options or SARs granted to Covered Employees and intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder.
      (d) 
Tax Provisions.
      (e)  The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or the Committee's authority to grant Awards under the Plan without the consent of stockholders or Participants; provided, however, that any amendment to the Plan shall be submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval not later than the earliest annual meeting for which the record date is at or after the date of such Board action:
Changes to the Plan.
 
The Board may otherwise, in its discretion, determine to submit other amendments to the Plan to stockholders for approval; and provided further, that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such Board (or any Committee) action may materially and adversely affect the rights of such Participant under any outstanding Award (for this purpose, actions that alter the timing of federal income taxation of a Participant will not be deemed material unless such action results in an income tax penalty on the Participant). With regard to other terms of Awards, the Committee shall have no authority to waive or modify any such Award term after the Award has been granted to the extent the waived or modified term would be mandatory under the Plan for any Award newly granted at the date of the waiver or modification.
      (f)  The Company or any subsidiary or affiliate may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, deduct from and set off against any amounts the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate may owe to the Participant from time to time (including amounts payable in connection with any Award, owed as wages, fringe benefits, or other compensation owed to the Participant), such amounts as may be owed by the Participant to the Company, including but not limited to amounts owed under Section 10(a), although the Participant shall remain liable for any part of the Participant's payment obligation not satisfied through such deduction and setoff. By accepting any Award granted hereunder, the Participant agrees to any deduction or setoff under this Section 11(f).
Right of Setoff.
      (g)  To the extent that any Award is deferred compensation, the Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for deferred compensation with respect to such Award. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant or obligation to deliver Stock pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award shall give any such Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company; provided that the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts and deposit therein cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, or make other arrangements to meet the Company's obligations under the Plan. Such trusts or other arrangements shall be consistent with the "unfunded" status of the Plan unless the Committee otherwise determines with the consent of each affected Participant.
Unfunded Status of Awards; Creation of Trusts.
      (h)  Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board nor its submission to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or a committee thereof to adopt such other incentive arrangements, apart from the Plan, as it may deem desirable, including incentive arrangements and awards which do not qualify under Code Section 162(m), and such other arrangements may be either applicable generally or only in specific cases.
Nonexclusivity of the Plan.
      (i)  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in the event of a forfeiture of an Award with respect to which a Participant paid cash consideration, the Participant shall be repaid the amount of such cash consideration. In addition, nothing herein shall prevent the Committee from authorizing the payment in cash of any amounts with respect to forfeited Awards. No fractional shares of Stock shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any
Payments in the Event of Forfeitures; Fractional Shares.
 
Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, other Awards or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of such fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
      (j)  It is the intent of the Company that Options and SARs granted to Covered Employees and other Awards designated as Awards to Covered Employees subject to Section 7 shall constitute qualified "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder, unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of allocation of an Award. Accordingly, the terms of Section 7, including the definitions of Covered Employee and other terms used therein, shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder. The foregoing notwithstanding, because the Committee cannot determine with certainty whether a given Participant will be a Covered Employee with respect to a fiscal year that has not yet been completed, the term Covered Employee as used herein shall mean only a person designated by the Committee as likely to be a Covered Employee with respect to a specified fiscal year. If any provision of the Plan or any Award document relating to an Award that is designated as intended to comply with Code Section 162(m) does not comply or is inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 162(m) or regulations thereunder, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements, and no provision shall be deemed to confer upon the Committee or any other person discretion to increase the amount of compensation otherwise payable in connection with any such Award upon attainment of the applicable performance objectives.
Compliance with Code Section 162(m).
      (k)  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Award that is deferred compensation within the meaning of Code Section 409A shall be automatically modified and limited to the extent that the Committee determines necessary to avoid the imposition of the additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code on a Participant holding such Award.
Certain Limitations on Awards to Ensure Compliance with Code Section 409A.
      (l)  Other provisions of the Plan notwithstanding, the Committee's authority under the Plan (including under Sections 8(c), 11(c) and 11(d)) is limited to the extent necessary to ensure that any Option or other Award of a type that the Committee has intended to be subject to fixed accounting with a measurement date at the date of grant or the date performance conditions are satisfied under APB 25 shall not become subject to "variable" accounting solely due to the existence of such authority, unless the Committee specifically determines that the Award shall remain outstanding despite such "variable" accounting.
Certain Limitations Relating to Accounting Treatment of Awards.
      (m)  The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan, any rules and regulations relating to the Plan and any Award document shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws, and applicable provisions of federal law.
Governing Law.
      (n)  The Committee may modify the terms of any Award under the Plan made to or held by a Participant who is then resident or primarily employed outside of the United States in any manner deemed by the Committee to be necessary or appropriate in order that such Award shall conform to laws, regulations, and customs of the country in which the Participant is then resident or primarily employed, or so that the value and other benefits of the Award to the Participant, as affected by foreign tax laws and other restrictions applicable as a result of the Participant's residence or employment abroad shall be comparable to the value of such an Award to a Participant who is resident or primarily employed in the United States. An Award may be modified under this Section 11(n) in a manner
Awards to Participants Outside the United States.
 
that is inconsistent with the express terms of the Plan, so long as such modifications will not contravene any applicable law or regulation or result in actual liability under Section 16(b) for the Participant whose Award is modified.
      (o)  Neither the Plan nor any action taken hereunder shall be construed as (i) giving any Eligible Person or Participant the right to continue as an Eligible Person or Participant or in the employ or service of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, (ii) interfering in any way with the right of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate to terminate any Eligible Person's or Participant's employment or service at any time (subject to the terms and provisions of any separate written agreements), (iii) giving an Eligible Person or Participant any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan or to be treated uniformly with other Participants and employees, or (iv) conferring on a Participant any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Participant is duly issued or transferred shares of Stock in accordance with the terms of an Award or an Option is duly exercised. Except as expressly provided in the Plan and an Award document, neither the Plan nor any Award document shall confer on any person other than the Company and the Participant any rights or remedies thereunder.
Limitation on Rights Conferred under Plan.
      (p)  If any of the provisions of the Plan or any Award document is finally held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision shall be deemed modified to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability, and the remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby; provided, that, if any of such provisions is finally held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum scope determined to be acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such scope in order to make such provision enforceable hereunder. The Plan and any agreements or documents designated by the Committee as setting forth the terms of an Award contain the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and supersede all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations and warranties between them, whether written or oral with respect to the subject matter thereof.
Severability; Entire Agreement.
      (q)  The Plan shall become effective if, and at such time as, the stockholders of the Company have approved it in accordance with applicable law and stock exchange requirements. Unless earlier terminated by action of the Board of Directors, the authority of the Committee to make grants under the Plan shall terminate on the date that is ten years after the latest date upon which stockholders of the Company have approved the Plan, and the Plan will remain in effect until such time as no Stock remains available for delivery under the Plan or as set forth above and the Company has no further rights or obligations under the Plan with respect to outstanding Awards under the Plan.
Plan Effective Date and Termination.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE:ANF) today announced the election of Daniel J. Brestle to the Company's Board of Directors.
NEW ALBANY, Ohio, June 15, 2005:
Mr. Brestle currently serves as the Chief Operating Officer for The Estee Lauder Companies, Inc. A veteran of the United States Air Force, Mr. Brestle joined Estee Lauder over 27 years ago, where he began his career as a Distribution and Plant Manager and, through a succession of promotions, became Group President in 2001 and Chief Operating Officer earlier this year.
"We are pleased to add another experienced and independent member to our Board of Directors," said Mike Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Abercrombie & Fitch. "Dan's expertise with the global, prestigious Estee Lauder brands will be invaluable to our Board. His experience in the management of a publicly traded company also is important to us, as is his qualification as an independent Board member under NYSE Rules. We believe Dan is an excellent fit with us, and we are excited about his election to our Board."
Mr. Brestle was elected as a director by the Company's Board of Directors earlier today. At that meeting, the Board took action to expand its number from ten to eleven, and Mr. Brestle was elected to fill the vacancy created by that expansion. He joins the Company's class of directors (John Golden, Edward Limato and Robert Singer) whose terms of office will expire at the 2007 annual meeting of stockholders.
Also earlier today at the Company's annual stockholders meeting, Russell Gertmenian, Archie Griffin and Allan Tuttle were elected to the Board of Directors by the Company's stockholders.
The Company operated 351 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 167 abercrombie stores, 271 Hollister Co. stores and 5 RUEHL stores at the end of fiscal May. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release, A&F's Form 10-K or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are
 
subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2005 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; and ability to hire, train and retain associates, and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.


