FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20051011080940.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
   October 6, 2005   
 
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On October 6, 2005, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended October 1, 2005 and net sales and comparable store sales for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the October 6, 2005 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) through (c) Not applicable.
     (d) :
Exhibit
     The following exhibit is furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $228.3 million for the five-week period ended October 1, 2005, a 31% increase over last year's September sales of $174.7 million. September comparable store sales increased 21% compared with the five-week period ended October 2, 2004.
New Albany, Ohio, October 6, 2005:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales increase of 36% to $1.634 billion from $1.200 billion last year. Comparable store sales increased 24% for the year-to-date period.
September 2005 Highlights
The Company operated 352 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 163 abercrombie stores, 289 Hollister Co. stores and 6 RUEHL stores at the end of fiscal September. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
To hear Abercrombie & Fitch's pre-recorded September sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release, A&F's Form 10-K or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2005 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; and ability to hire, train and retain associates, and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.


