FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20050713153650.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 7, 2005
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02.   Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. ("A&F") appointed Michael W. Kramer ("Kramer") as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of A&F, effective August 8, 2005 (the "Kramer Employment Date").
     Kramer will serve at the pleasure of A&F's Board of Directors. Prior to accepting A&F's offer of employment, Kramer had no business relationship or transactions with A&F or its subsidiaries reportable for purposes of Item 404(a) of SEC Regulation S-K.
     Kramer, who is 41, served as Chief Financial Officer, Apple Retail for Apple Computer, Inc. since April 2001. Prior thereto, he served as Vice President, Assistant Corporate Controller of Gateway, Inc. from April 2000 to March 2001. Prior thereto, he served as Controller, Lane Bryant Division from October 1998 to September 1999 and then acting Chief Financial Officer, Lane Bryant Division from October 1999 to March 2000, in each case for The Limited, Inc. (now known as Limited Brands, Inc.). Kramer is a Certified Public Accountant. There are no family relationships between Kramer and any of the directors or other executive officers of A&F.
     The following is a summary of the material terms of Kramer's compensation arrangements with A&F.
     Kramer will receive an annual base salary of $500,000, which will be reviewed in March 2006. If A&F terminates Kramer's employment for any reason (other than resignation by Kramer, termination by A&F for cause or by reason of Kramer's death or disability) within 12 months of the Kramer Employment Date, A&F will continue to pay Kramer's base salary for a period of 12 months following the termination date.
     Kramer will be paid a sign-on bonus in the amount of $50,000, less applicable taxes (the "Sign-On Bonus"). If Kramer voluntarily resigns during his first 12 months of employment with A&F or is terminated for gross misconduct, he will be required to reimburse A&F for the full amount of the Sign-On Bonus.
Table of Contents
     On the Kramer Employment Date, Kramer will be granted non-qualified stock options ("Options") covering 25,000 shares of Class A Common Stock of A&F and 30,000 Restricted Stock Units under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan. The Options will have an exercise price equal to the opening price of the A&F Class A Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the Kramer Employment Date and generally will become exercisable in four equal annual installments on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the grant date, subject to Kramer's continued employment. Generally, the Restricted Stock Units will vest as to 10% on the grant date, as to 20% on the first anniversary of the grant date, as to 30% on the second anniversary of the grant date and as to 40% on the third anniversary of the grant date, subject to Kramer's continued employment.
     Kramer will also be eligible to participate in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Incentive Compensation Performance Plan, in the annual performance-based portion of A&F's restricted share program, in A&F's qualified and nonqualified retirement plans, and in A&F's relocation, medical, dental, life and disability insurance plans and other fringe benefit programs, each on substantially the same terms as similarly situated executive officers of A&F.
     A copy of the news release issued by A&F on July 7, 2005, announcing, among other things, Kramer's appointment (the "July 7, 2005 Release") is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The information related to Kramer included in the July 7, 2005 Release is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 7.01.   Regulation FD Disclosure
     The July 7, 2005 Release also reported net sales and comparable store sales information for the five-week period ended July 2, 2005 and net sales and comparable store sales information for the fiscal year-to-date. The financial information included in the July 7, 2005 Release is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (c)   :
Exhibits
     The following exhibit is included with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $221.6 million for the five-week period ended July 2, 2005, a 52% increase over last year's net sales of $146.1 million for the five-week period ended July 3, 2004. June comparable store sales increased 38% over the same period last year.
New Albany, Ohio, July 7, 2005:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales increase of 39% to $927.4 million from $669.5 million last year. Comparable store sales increased 25% for the year-to-date period.
June 2005 Highlights
Kramer Named Chief Financial Officer
The Company also announced that Michael W. Kramer, 41, will join Abercrombie & Fitch as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. His appointment is effective August 8, 2005.
"Mike has thrived in collaborative and creative environments throughout his career," said Mike Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "His understanding of leveraging the power of strong brands makes him a great new leader for the company."
Kramer joins Abercrombie & Fitch from Apple Inc., where he was Chief Financial Officer of Apple Retail. His previous retail experience includes positions at Gateway, Inc., Limited, Inc. and Pizza Hut, Inc. of Pepsico. Mr. Kramer received a B.A. in Business Administration and Accounting from Kansas State University and is a Certified Public Accountant.
The Company operated 347 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 162 abercrombie stores, 275 Hollister Co. stores and 5 RUEHL stores at the end of fiscal June. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
To hear Abercrombie & Fitch's prerecorded June sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally dial (402) 220-1262.
 
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release, A&F's Form 10-K or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2005 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; and ability to hire, train and retain associates, and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.


