FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20050203170049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): February 3, 2005 ------------------ ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. ---------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-12107 31-1469076 -------------- ----------- -------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission (IRS Employer of incorporation) File Number) Identification No.) 6301 Fitch Path, New Albany, Ohio 43054 -------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (614) 283-6500 ---------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable ------------------------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act(17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 1 - Registrant's Business and Operations Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement. The form of Stock Unit Agreement entered into by Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") in order to evidence the automatic grants of stock units made under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2003 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors on January 31, 2005 and to be entered into by the Registrant in respect of future automatic grants of stock units is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Section 2 - Financial Information Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On February 3, 2005, the Registrant issued a news release reporting, among other things, net sales for the four-week period ended January 29, 2005, net sales for the fourth quarter (thirteen-week) period ended January 29, 2005, and net sales for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005. A copy of the February 3, 2005 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Section 7 - Regulation FD Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure. On February 3, 2005, the Registrant issued a news release reporting, among other things, net sales for the four-week period ended January 29, 2005, net sales for the fourth quarter (thirteen-week) period ended January 29, 2005 and net sales for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005. A copy of the February 3, 2005 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (a) Financial statements of businesses acquired: Not applicable. (b) Pro forma financial information: Not applicable. -2-
(c) Exhibits: Exhibit No. Description ----------- ----------- 10.1 Form of Stock Unit Agreement under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2003 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors entered into by Abercrombie & Fitch Co. in order to evidence the automatic grants of stock units made on January 31, 2005 and to be entered into by Abercrombie & Fitch Co. in respect of future automatic grants of stock units 99.1 News Release issued by Abercrombie & Fitch Co. on February 3, 2005 -3-
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. Dated: February 3, 2005 By: /s/ Susan J. Riley ---------------------- Susan J. Riley Senior Vice President-Chief Financial Officer -4-
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Current Report on Form 8-K Dated February 3, 2005 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Exhibit No. Description ----------- ----------- 10.1 Form of Stock Unit Agreement under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2003 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors entered into by Abercrombie & Fitch Co. in order to evidence the automatic grants of stock units made on January 31, 2005 and to be entered into by Abercrombie & Fitch Co. in respect of future automatic grants of stock units 99.1 News Release issued by Abercrombie & Fitch Co. on February 3, 2005 -5-

Exhibit 10.1 STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT (2003 STOCK PLAN FOR NON-ASSOCIATE DIRECTORS) This STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made to be effective as of __________, 200_ (the "Grant Date"), by and between Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and _______________________________ ( the "Director"). WITNESSETH: WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the 2003 Stock Plan for Non-Associate Directors of the Company (the "Plan"), on the first business day of each fiscal year of the Company, the Company is to automatically grant to each individual then serving as a director of the Company who is not an associate of the Company or any of its affiliates (an "Eligible Director"), stock units representing the right to receive that number of shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Shares"), of the Company equal to the number determined by dividing (i) $60,000 by (ii) the average of the closing sale price of the Shares on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") during the period of 20 trading days immediately preceding the date of grant of the stock units; and WHEREAS, the Director serves as an Eligible Director on the Grant Date; NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto make the following agreement, intending to be legally bound thereby: 1. GRANT OF STOCK UNITS. The Company hereby grants to the Director _______ stock units, each stock unit representing the right to receive one Share of the Company (the "Stock Units"), subject to adjustment as provided in Section 6 of this Agreement. The grant of the Stock Units shall not confer upon the Director any right to continue as a director of the Company. 2. VESTING. Each Stock Unit shall vest in full on the first anniversary of the Grant Date as long as the Director continues to be an Eligible Director of the Company on such anniversary. The Shares subject to the vested Stock Units shall be deliverable to the Director as soon as reasonably practicable after the vesting date. 3. ACCELERATION OF VESTING UPON CHANGE OF CONTROL. Notwithstanding the vesting provisions contained in Section 2 of this Agreement, but subject to the other terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan, upon the occurrence of a "Change of Control" (as such term is defined in the Plan), all outstanding Stock Units held by the Director (whether or not then vested by their terms) shall become immediately vested in full and the Shares subject to the vested Stock Units deliverable to the Director. 4. FORFEITURE OR EARLY VESTING UPON TERMINATION OF SERVICE AS DIRECTOR. (a) TERMINATION OF SERVICE GENERALLY. Upon termination of the Director's service as a director of the Company for any reason other than death or total disability, all unvested Stock Units held by the Director shall be forfeited to the Company.
(b) TOTAL DISABILITY. If the Director's service as a director of the Company ceases as a result of the Director's "total disability" (as such term is defined in the Plan), all outstanding Stock Units held by the Director (whether or not then vested by their terms) shall become immediately vested in full. The Shares subject to the vested Stock Units shall then be deliverable to the Director. (c) DEATH. If the Director dies while serving as a director of the Company, all outstanding Stock Units held by the Director (whether or not then vested by their terms) shall become immediately vested in full. The Shares subject to the vested Stock Units shall then be deliverable to the Director's estate or the person who acquires the right to receive such Shares upon the Director's death by bequest or inheritance. 5. NON-TRANSFERABILITY OF STOCK UNITS. The Stock Units may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred, encumbered or disposed of by the Director otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. The Stock Units may, however, be transferred pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order, as defined in Section 414(p) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor provision. 6. ADJUSTMENTS TO STOCK UNITS. If there is a change in the outstanding Shares of the Company by reason of a stock dividend, stock split, recapitalization, extraordinary dividend, merger, consolidation, combination, spin-off, distribution of assets to stockholders, exchange of shares, or other similar corporate change, the number of Shares subject to outstanding Stock Units shall be appropriately adjusted as necessary to reflect such event. Notice of any adjustment pursuant to this Section 6 shall be given by the Company to the Director. 7. RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFERS OF SHARES. Anything contained in this Agreement or elsewhere to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may postpone the issuance and delivery of Shares upon the vesting of the Stock Units until completion of any stock exchange listing or registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law, rule or regulation as the Company may consider appropriate. Shares issued and delivered upon vesting of the Stock Units shall be subject to such restrictions on trading, including appropriate legending of certificates to that effect, as the Company, in its discretion, shall determine are necessary to satisfy applicable laws, rules and regulations. 8. RIGHTS OF THE DIRECTOR AS A STOCKHOLDER. The Director shall have no voting or other rights as a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Shares of the Company covered by the Stock Units until the date of issuance to the Director of a certificate or other evidence of ownership representing such Shares. Upon vesting of the Stock Units and delivery of the Shares subject thereto, the Director will obtain full voting and other rights as a stockholder of the Company in respect of the delivered Shares. 9. PLAN AS CONTROLLING. All terms and conditions of the Plan applicable to the Stock Units which are not set forth in this Agreement shall be deemed incorporated herein by reference. In the event that any term or condition of this Agreement is inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Plan shall be deemed controlling. The Director acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Plan and of the Prospectus related to the Plan. -2-
10. GOVERNING LAW. To the extent not preempted by federal law, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware. 11. RIGHTS AND REMEDIES CUMULATIVE. All rights and remedies of the Company and of the Director enumerated in this Agreement shall be cumulative and, except as expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement, none shall exclude any other rights or remedies allowed by law or in equity, and each of said rights or remedies may be exercised and enforced concurrently. 12. CAPTIONS. The captions contained in this Agreement are included only for convenience of reference and do not define, limit, explain or modify this Agreement or its interpretation, construction or meaning and are in no way to be construed as a part of this Agreement. 13. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement or the application of any provision hereof to any person or any circumstance shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable, then such determination shall not affect any other provision of this Agreement or the application of said provision to any other person or circumstance, all of which other provisions shall remain in full force and effect. It is the intention of each party to this Agreement that if any provision of this Agreement is susceptible of two or more constructions, one of which would render the provision enforceable and the other or others of which would render the provision unenforceable, then the provision shall have the meaning which renders it enforceable. 14. NUMBER AND GENDER. When used in this Agreement, the number and gender of each pronoun shall be construed to be such number and gender as the context, circumstances or its antecedent may require. 15. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. This Agreement, including the Plan incorporated herein by reference, constitutes the entire agreement between the Company and the Director in respect of the subject matter of this Agreement, and this Agreement supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements between the parties hereto in connection with the subject matter of this Agreement. No officer, employee or other servant or agent of the Company, and no servant or agent of the Director, is authorized to make any representation, warranty or other promise not contained in this Agreement. No change, termination or attempted waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon either party hereto unless contained in a writing signed by the party to be charged. 16. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS OF THE COMPANY. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns (including successive, as well as immediate, successors and assigns) of the Company. [Remainder of page intentionally left blank; signatures on following page.] -3-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Director has executed this Agreement, and the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed by its duly authorized officer, in each case to be effective as of the Grant Date. COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. By: ------------------------------------- Title: ---------------------------------- DIRECTOR: ---------------------------------------- Printed Name: --------------------------- Address: -------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------- Social Security Number: ----------------- -4-

Exhibit 99.1 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH REPORTS JANUARY SALES INCREASE OF 30% NEW ALBANY, OHIO, FEBRUARY 3, 2005: Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $126.1 million for the four-week period ended January 29, 2005, a 30% increase over last year's January sales of $97.1 million. January comparable store sales increased 17% compared to the four-week period ended January 31, 2004. JANUARY 2005 HIGHLIGHTS o Total Company net sales increased 30% o Total Company comparable store sales increased 17% o Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales increased 13% o Hollister Co. comparable store sales increased 22% o abercrombie comparable store sales increased 27% SALES RESULTS For the fourth quarter, the thirteen-week period ended January 29, 2005, the Company reported a net sales increase of 23% to $687.3 million from $560.4 million for the same period last year. Comparable store sales for the fourth quarter increased 9% compared to the same period last year. For the 2004 fiscal year, the Company reported a net sales increase of 18% to $2.021 billion from $1.708 billion last year. Comparable store sales increased 2% for the year-to-date period. Consistent with last month's statement, management reiterates that they expect the increase in fourth quarter net income over last year to be approximately in line with the increase in total fourth quarter comparable store sales. MERCHANDISE RESULTS The Company reported that January comparable store sales increased 17% for the month driven largely by a strong response to the spring assortment. In the Abercrombie & Fitch brand, comparable store sales increased 13% for the month with strong merchandise trends in denim, fleece, knits, tee-shirts and men's woven shirts. The Hollister brand continues to perform extremely well with comparable store sales up 22% over last year. All key merchandise classifications were positive for the month. The Company's kids brand, abercrombie, reported same store sales increased 27% over last year. Sales were extremely strong throughout most of the merchandise assortment in both the girls and boys businesses.
The Company operated 356 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 171 abercrombie stores, 256 Hollister Co. stores and 4 RUEHL stores at the end of January. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com. To hear Abercrombie & Fitch's prerecorded January sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally dial (402) 220-1262. The Company will announce fourth quarter earnings on Tuesday, February 15th, at 4:30 PM Eastern Time and at that time will provide additional information about its fourth quarter results. To listen to the LIVE conference call, dial (800) 811-0667 and ask for the Abercrombie & Fitch Quarterly Call or go to www.abercrombie.com. The international call-in number is (913) 981- 4901. This call will be recorded and made available by dialing the replay number (888) 203-1112 or the international number (719) 457-0820, followed by the conference ID number 718076 or through www.abercrombie.com. # # # # For further information, call: Thomas D. Lennox Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications (614) 283-6751 Or Mike Woodworth Senior Financial Analyst, Investor Relations (614) 283-6156 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release, A&F's Form 10-K or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2004 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; and ability to hire, train and retain associates, and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.


