FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20051205162911.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
     Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
     Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
     Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On December 1, 2005, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended November 26, 2005 and net sales and comparable store sales for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the December 1, 2005 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with the December 1, 2005 news release, the Registrant has made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended November 26, 2005 and net sales and comparable store sales for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) through (c)     Not applicable.
     (d) :
Exhibits
     The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $251.2 million for the four-week period ended November 26, 2005, a 34% increase over last year's November sales of $188.0 million. November comparable store sales increased 23% compared with the four-week period ended November 27, 2004.
New Albany, Ohio, December 1, 2005:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales increase of 36% to $2.075 billion from $1.522 billion last year. Comparable store sales increased 24% for the year-to-date period.
November 2005 Highlights
The Company operated 358 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 163 abercrombie stores, 309 Hollister Co. stores and 8 RUEHL stores at the end of fiscal November. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
To hear Abercrombie & Fitch's pre-recorded November sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release, A&F's Form 10-K or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2005 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; and ability to hire, train and retain associates, and the outcome of pending litigation.
Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

 
Exhibit 99.2
This is Tom Lennox, Director of Investor Relations and Corporate Communications of Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended November 26, 2005.
th
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the four-week period ended November 26, 2005 were $251.2 million compared with $188.0 million last year, an increase of 34%. Comparable store sales for the four-week period increased 23% compared with the four-week period ended November 27, 2004. Year-to-date net sales were $2.075 billion versus $1.522 billion last year, an increase of 36%. Comparable store sales increased 24% for the year-to-date period.
th
th
November comps, which largely represent initial selling from our Christmas assortments, reflect strong comparable store increases in each brand. We implemented our initial Christmas floor-sets in stores during the final week of October, similar in timing to last year. By region, comps were strongest in the North Atlantic and Midwest.
In the Abercrombie & Fitch brand, comparable store sales increased 10% with similar men's and women's comps for the month. In men's, polos, graphic T-shirts, jeans, and fleece were strongest; while in women's, comps were strongest in knit tops, fleece, and jackets.
In the kids business, abercrombie, comparable store sales increased 52% versus last year. Boys comps increased by low thirties, with girls increasing by high fifties. In boys, polos, jeans, fleece and graphic t-shirts performed best, in girls, fleece, knit tops, jeans, and graphic t-shirts were strongest.
Hollister comp store sales increased 32%, with dudes comps increasing by mid-twenties; strong classifications include polos, fleece, graphic T-shirts, and jeans. In bettys, comps increased by mid-thirties with knit tops, fleece, sweaters, and graphic T-shirts performing best.
We will announce December sales on Thursday, January 5, 2006.
th
Thank you.


