FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20050418144644.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 12, 2005 --------------- ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. ----------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware 1-12107 31-1469076 -------- ------- ---------- (State or other jurisdiction of (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) incorporation)
6301 Fitch Path, New Albany, Ohio 43054 --------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (614) 283-6500 -------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) Not Applicable -------------- (Former name or former address, if changed since last report) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 5.02. DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS. On April 12, 2005, Susan J. Riley submitted her resignation as Chief Financial Officer of Abercrombie & Fitch Co., effective April 15, 2005. The Company has initiated a search for a successor to Ms. Riley. In the interim, Robert S. Singer, President and Chief Operating Officer, will assume Ms. Riley's responsibilities. ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description 99.1 Press Release dated April 13, 2005 [Remainder of page intentionally left blank; signature on following page.] 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. Dated: April 18, 2005 By: /s/ Robert S. Singer ------------------------------------- Robert S. Singer President and Chief Operating Officer 3
INDEX TO EXHIBITS Current Report on Form 8-K Dated April 12, 2005 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 4

EXHIBIT 99.1 ABERCROMBIE & FITCH ANNOUNCES RESIGNATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER NEW ALBANY, Ohio / April 13, 2005 - Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today announced that Susan J. Riley resigned as the Company's Chief Financial Officer effective April 15, 2005 for family reasons and to return to her home in New York City. The Company has initiated a search for a successor to Ms. Riley. In the interim, Robert Singer, the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer will assume Ms. Riley's responsibilities. "We appreciate the contributions that Sue has made to A&F and we wish her well." said Michael Jeffries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Abercrombie & Fitch. The Company operated 357 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 170 abercrombie stores, 260 Hollister Co. stores and 4 RUEHL stores at the end of fiscal March. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com. # # # # For further information, call: Thomas D. Lennox Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications (614) 283-6751 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release, A&F's Form 10-K or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2004, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2005 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; and ability to hire, train and retain associates, and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.


