FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20060109171915.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On January 5, 2006, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended December 31, 2005 and net sales and comparable store sales for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the January 5, 2006 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with the January 5, 2006 news release, the Registrant has made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended December 31, 2005 and net sales and comparable store sales for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
     On January 5, 2006, the Registrant announced that the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") has issued a formal order of investigation concerning trading in shares of the Registrant's Class A Common Stock, the same subject matter as the SEC's informal inquiry that the Registrant previously disclosed in "Item 1  Legal Proceedings" of Part II of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended October 29, 2005. The SEC has requested additional information from the Registrant and certain of its current and former officers and directors. The Registrant and its personnel are cooperating fully with the SEC.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) through (c) Not applicable.
     (d) :
Exhibits
     The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $525.9 million for the five-week period ended December 31, 2005, a 41% increase over last year's December net sales of $373.2 million. December comparable store sales increased 29% compared with the five-week period ended January 1, 2005.
New Albany, Ohio, January 5, 2006:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales increase of 37% to $2.600 billion from $1.895 billion last year. Comparable store sales increased 25% for the year-to-date period.
December 2005 Highlights
Based on its year-to-date results, the Company now expects net income per share on a fully-diluted basis for fiscal 2005, including the previously reported non-recurring third quarter charge, to be in the range of $3.58 to $3.63. Excluding the previously reported non-recurring third quarter charge, the Company now expects net income per share on a fully-diluted basis for fiscal 2005 to be in the range of $3.67 to $3.72.
Earnings Guidance:
The Company recently was informed that the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") has issued a formal order of investigation concerning trading in shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock, the same subject matter as the SEC's informal inquiry that the Company previously disclosed. The SEC has requested additional information from the Company and certain of its current and former officers and directors. The Company and its personnel are cooperating fully with the SEC.
SEC Update:
 
The Company operated 358 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 165 abercrombie stores, 309 Hollister Co. stores and 8 RUEHL stores at the end of fiscal December. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
To hear Abercrombie & Fitch's pre-recorded December sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2005 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; and ability to hire, train and retain associates, and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

 
Exhibit 99.2
This is Tom Lennox, Vice President of Corporate Communications of Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended December 31, 2005.
st
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the five-week period ended December 31, 2005 were $525.9 million compared with $373.2 million last year, an increase of 41%. Comparable store sales for the five-week period increased 29% compared with the five-week period ended January 1, 2005. Year-to-date sales were $2.600 billion versus $1.895 billion last year, an increase of 37%. Comparable store sales increased 25% for the year-to-date period.
st
st
December results were strong with our brands achieving excellent comparable store sales increases. The business performed extremely well throughout the month, driven by exceptional Christmas selling as well as from preview of our spring assortment.
 
In the Abercrombie & Fitch brand, comparable store sales increased 19%. Men's comps increased by mid-teens, women's comps increased by low-twenties. In men's, polos, graphic T-shirts, and jeans were strong; while in women's, comps in knit tops, fleece, jackets, sweaters and jeans performed strongest.
In the kids business, abercrombie, comparable store sales increased 59% versus last year. Boys comps increased by high-thirties, with girls increasing by mid-sixties. In boys, polos, jeans, graphic T-shirts and fleece performed well, in girls, knit tops, fleece, sweaters, jeans and graphic T-shirts performed well.
Hollister comparable store sales increased 36%, with dudes comps increasing by mid-thirties; strong classifications include polos, graphic T-shirts, and fleece. In bettys, comps increased by mid-thirties with knit tops, sweaters, fleece and personal care performing well.
 
Based on our year-to-date results, we now expect net income per share on a fully-diluted basis for fiscal 2005, including the previously reported non-recurring third quarter charge, to be in the range of $3.58 to $3.63. Excluding the previously reported non-recurring third quarter charge, we now expect net income per share on a fully-diluted basis for fiscal 2005 to be in the range of $3.67 to $3.72.
We will announce January sales on Thursday, February 2, 2006.
nd
Thank you.


