FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20060807163803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On August 1, 2006, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") and John W. Lough executed a retirement agreement, setting forth the terms and conditions of Mr. Lough's retirement from the Registrant (the "Retirement Agreement"). Mr. Lough had served as Executive Vice President  Distribution Center Logistics for the Company until his retirement effective May 5, 2006.
     Under the terms of the Retirement Agreement, in addition to certain continued welfare benefits and an extension of the period during which he may exercise his vested stock options, Mr. Lough will be entitled to (a) a lump sum amount equal to five months' base salary, (b) pro rata bonus under the Incentive Compensation Plan for the 2006 Spring Season and (c) payment of fifteen days' unused vacation.
     Pursuant to the Retirement Agreement, Mr. Lough agreed to non-disclosure and non-disparagement covenants (unlimited by time) and nine-month non-competition and non-solicitation covenants. Mr. Lough also agreed to cooperate with the Registrant in defense of legal claims asserted against the Registrant. The foregoing description of the Retirement Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Retirement Agreement, which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits..
     (a) through (c) Not applicable.
     (d) Exhibits:
     The following exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
          This Agreement ("Agreement") is made by and between JOHN LOUGH ("Lough") and ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MANAGEMENT CO., a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in New Albany, Ohio, which, together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, are collectively referred to herein as the "Company."
          WHEREAS, Lough has been employed by the Company as an officer since on or about June 21, 1999;
          WHEREAS, Lough has decided to retire effective May 5, 2006; and
          WHEREAS, the parties wish to define the terms and conditions of Lough's retirement from employment with the Company;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for and in consideration of the following mutual covenants and promises, the undersigned parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
          1. . Lough's retirement will be effective May 5, 2006 ("Retirement Date"). On the Retirement Date, Lough's employment with the Company and all further compensation, remuneration, bonuses, and eligibility of Lough under Company benefit plans shall terminate, and Lough shall not be entitled to receive any further payments or benefits of any kind from the Company except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or by applicable law.
Retirement Date
          2. . The Company will pay to Lough the following (all hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Retirement Package"):
Retirement Benefits Following Resignation Date
 
 
          The Retirement Package shall be the sole payment made to Lough and shall constitute the entire consideration to be paid by the Company in exchange for the promises of Lough set forth herein.
          The Company and Lough each intend that the benefits provided hereunder either not be subject to Section 409A of the Code, or comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Therefore, the intended economic impact of the benefits on the respective parties is as though the benefits do not violate Section 409A and continue beyond the restrictions currently imposed by Section 409A as set forth in paragraphs 2.b.iii, 2.d.i and 2.f.iii and 2.f.iv above. Accordingly, if any of the benefits hereunder are or become subject to Section 409A, the Company and Lough agree to negotiate in good faith changes in such benefits in order to preserve the intended economics of such benefits to each party.
          5. .
Lough Covenants
               a. : Lough shall not, without the written authorization of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of the Company, use (except for the benefit of the Company) any Confidential and Trade Secret Information relating to the Company. Lough shall hold in strictest confidence and shall not, without the written authorization of the Chairman and CEO of the Company, disclose to anyone, other than directors, officers, employees and counsel of the Company in furtherance of the business of the Company, any Confidential and Trade Secret Information relating to the Company. For purposes of this Agreement, Confidential and Trade Secret information includes: the general or specific nature of any concept in development, the business plan or development schedule of any concept, vendor, merchant or customer lists or other vendor, merchant or customer information, all technical and business information relating to products, processes, know-how, designs, formulas, methods, software, improvements, technology, new products, marketing and selling plans, business plans, development schedules, budgets and unpublished financial statements, licenses, prices and costs, suppliers, and information regarding the skills, compensation or duties of employees, independent contractors or consultants of the Company and any other information about the Company that is proprietary or confidential. Confidential and Trade Secret Information specifically includes, but is not limited to, the general and specific nature of, and information related to, the development of Concept 5 and Project P.
Non-Disclosure and Non-Use
               The restrictions set forth in this Section shall not apply to information that is or becomes generally available to the public other than as a result of its wrongful disclosure by Lough, or information received on a non-confidential basis from sources other than the Company who are not in violation of a confidentiality agreement with the Company. This confidentiality covenant has no temporal, geographical or territorial restriction.
               Lough further represents and agrees that at and after the Retirement Date it is his sole obligation to comply with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regarding trading shares and/or exercising options related to the Company's stock. Lough acknowledges that the Company has not provided opinions or legal advice to him regarding his obligations in this respect and that it is Lough's responsibility to seek independent legal advice with respect to any stock or option transaction.
               b. . Lough shall not state or publish anything about the Company or its officers to any media entity, including, but not limited to television, newspaper, magazine, magalog, website bulletin boards, blogs or editorials (hereinafter collectively referred to as "the Media"), or any representative or agent of the Media which would adversely affect the reputation, image or business relationships and goodwill of the Company in its market and community at large. Lough shall not otherwise state or publish anything about the Company or its officers which would materially and adversely affect the reputation, image or business relationships and goodwill of the Company in its market and community at large. Lough shall fully cooperate with the Company in defense of legal claims asserted against the Company and other matters requiring the testimony or input and knowledge of Lough. If at any time Lough should be required to cooperate with the Company pursuant to this Section, the Company agrees to reimburse Lough for reasonable costs and expenses incurred as a result thereof. Lough agrees that he will not speak or communicate with any party or representative of any party, who is known to Lough to be either adverse to the Company in litigation or administrative proceedings or to have threatened to commence litigation or administrative proceedings against the Company, with respect to the pending or threatened legal action, unless Lough receives the written consent
Non-Disparagement and Cooperation
 
of the Company to do so, or is otherwise compelled by law to do so, and then only after advance notice to the Company.
               c. . During the nine (9) month period following the Retirement Date, Lough shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the CEO, own, manage, operate, join, control, be employed by, consult with or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of, or be connected with (as a stockholder, partner, or otherwise), any entity listed on Appendix A attached to this Agreement, any of their subsidiaries and affiliates engaged in a business that is competitive with the Company, and any other entity that the Company reasonably determines is a competitor of the Company ("Competing Entity"); , , that the "beneficial ownership" by Lough after the Retirement Date, either individually or by a "group" of which Lough is a member as such terms are used in Rule 13d of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), of less than two percent (2%) of the voting stock of any publicly held corporation shall not be a violation of this Section 5c.
Non-Competition
provided
however
               d. . During the nine (9) month period following the Retirement Date (the "Non-Solicitation Period"), Lough shall not, either directly or indirectly, alone or in conjunction with another party, interfere with or harm, or attempt to interfere with or harm, the relationship of the Company with any person who at any time was a customer or supplier of the Company or otherwise had a business relationship with the Company. During the Non-Solicitation Period, Lough shall not without the prior written consent of the CEO, hire, solicit for hire, aid in the hire, or cause to be hired, either as an employee, contractor or consultant, any person who is currently employed, or was employed at any time during the six month period prior thereto, as an employee, contractor or consultant of the Company.
Non-Solicitation
               e. . Lough agrees that any breach of the terms of Paragraphs 5a through 5d of this Agreement could result in irreparable injury and damage to the Company for which the Company would have no adequate remedy at law. Lough agrees that in the event of said breach or any threat of breach, the Company shall be entitled to an immediate injunction and restraining order to prevent such breach and threatened breach and/or continued breach by Lough and/or any and all persons and/or entities acting for and/or with Lough, without having to prove damages, and to all costs and expenses incurred by the Company in seeking to enforce its rights under this Agreement. These remedies are in addition to any other remedies to which the Company may be entitled at law or in equity. Lough agrees that the covenants of Lough contained herein are reasonable and the Company would not have entered into this Agreement but for the inclusion of such covenants. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Company may cancel or recover from Lough, and Lough shall repay promptly, the payments provided Lough in Paragraphs 2a and 2bi in the event that he violates the covenants contained herein. The existence of any claim or cause of action by Lough against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of the covenants and agreements of this Agreement; , , that this paragraph shall not, in and of itself, preclude Lough from defending himself against the enforceability of the covenants and agreements of this Agreement.
Remedies
provided
however
          6. . Lough and the Company agree not to talk about, write about, or otherwise publicize or disclose at any time to any person or company the terms or existence of this Agreement, or any fact concerning its negotiation, execution, or implementation, , however, that Lough may disclose such information to the following individuals provided that they agree to abide by the confidentiality provisions of this Agreement: (a) to his immediate family; (b) to his attorney(s); (c) as may be necessary for the proper tax treatment of the costs, expenses or proceeds of the Retirement Package, including disclosure to his tax accountants, tax advisors, or taxing authorities; or (d) as is otherwise required by law. The Company may disclose such information on an "as needed" basis to (a) individuals within the Company; or (b) its business advisors, including but not limited to its attorneys, accountants and auditors, or (c) as is otherwise required by law.
Confidentiality
provided
          The provisions of this paragraph concerning confidentiality obligations are expressly acknowledged by the parties to constitute material consideration for the obligations under this Agreement. Any breach by a party of these confidentiality provisions shall afford the other party an action in law to recover the actual damages incurred thereby. Notwithstanding any violation of this paragraph 6, the provisions and covenants contained in this Agreement shall remain in effect and be enforceable.
 
          7. . Lough does hereby for himself and for each of his past, present and future heirs, administrators, executors, representatives, agents, attorneys, assigns and all others claiming by or through him or them, forever release and discharge the Company, and its past, present and future shareholders, representatives, agents, servants, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, divisions, officers, directors, employees, insurers, successors, predecessors, administrators, attorneys, assigns and all others claiming by or through them, jointly or severally, (hereinafter "the Released Parties") from any and all charges, claims, demands, judgments, actions, causes of action, damages, debts, agreements, remedies, promises, suits, losses, obligations, expenses, costs, attorneys' fees, liabilities and claims for relief of every kind and nature, whether matured or unmatured, known or unknown, direct or indirect, foreseen or unforeseen, vested or contingent, in law, equity or otherwise, under any federal or state statute or common law, which Lough has ever had, now has, or may have in the future, against any of the Released Parties for or on account of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever that was or could have been asserted or that occurred up to the date of this Agreement. This release shall include without limitation all claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Ohio Civil Rights Act, any claim for unpaid wages, and any other federal and state civil rights laws or laws relating to employment, all laws of any other nation, or state or local government including, without limitation, any workers' compensation or disability claims under any such laws, and any and all tort claims.
Releases
     The Company does hereby for itself and for its parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, divisions, and all others claiming by or through them, jointly or severally, forever release and discharge Lough from any and all charges, claims, demands, judgments, actions, causes of action, damages, debts, agreements, remedies, promises, suits, losses, obligations, expenses, costs, attorneys' fees, liabilities and claims for relief of every kind and nature, whether matured or unmatured, known or unknown, direct or indirect, foreseen or unforeseen, vested or contingent, in law, equity or otherwise, under any federal or state statute or common law, which the Company has ever had, now has, or may have in the future, against Lough for or on account of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever that was or could have been asserted or that occurred up to the date of this Agreement.
          8. . Lough specifically acknowledges that the release of his claims under this Agreement includes, without limitation, waiver and release of all claims against the Company and Released Parties under the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA"), and Lough further acknowledges and agrees that:
Age Discrimination Claims and Older Worker's Benefit Protection Act Terms
 
          9. . Lough agrees that he shall be exclusively liable for payment of any and all taxes due by him in connection with the Retirement Package and agrees to indemnify the Company for any liability incurred because of Lough's failure to pay such taxes, assessments, or reimbursements, or penalties, which may be assessed by any taxing authority in connection with any payments made pursuant to this Agreement.
Indemnification
          10. . Lough agrees that in connection with his retirement, he shall promptly return to the Company all Company documents and property in his possession or control including, but not limited to, Computer(s) and all Software, Security Keys and Badges, Price Lists, Supplier and Customer Lists, Employee Lists, including compensation, salary and benefit information, Files, Reports, all correspondence both internal and external (memo's, letters, quotes, etc.), Business Plans, Budgets, Designs, and any and all other property of the Company.
Return of Property
          11. . This Agreement and the terms hereof are not and shall not be used or construed as evidence of an admission by the Company, the Released Parties, or Lough of any wrongdoing by them whatsoever, all of which is expressly denied. Moreover, this Agreement shall not be offered as evidence for any purpose in any litigation, or in any other forum, matter or otherwise, other than for the purpose of enforcing the terms of this Agreement.
No Liability or Admission of Any Party
          12. . The validity, construction and interpretation of this Agreement and the rights and duties of the parties hereto shall be governed by the laws of Ohio. Any actions or proceedings instituted under this Agreement with respect to any matters arising under or related to this Agreement, shall be brought and tried only in the Court of Common Pleas, Franklin County, Ohio except that the Company, in its sole election and discretion, can bring suit in any jurisdiction in which Lough may be in violation of this Agreement. Lough consents to the jurisdiction of the Court of Common Pleas, Franklin County, Ohio or any other jurisdiction in which the Company has the right to bring suit and expressly waives his right to cause any such actions or proceedings to be brought or tried elsewhere.
Governing Law
          13. . Failure to insist upon strict compliance with any of the terms, covenants, or conditions hereof shall not be deemed a waiver of any such term, covenant or condition, nor shall such failure at any one time or more times be deemed a waiver or relinquishment of any other time or times of any right under the terms, covenants, or conditions hereof. If any provision hereof shall be determined to be unlawful or improper, or unenforceable for any other reason, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force and effect.
Enforcement of Terms
          14. . No modification hereof shall be effective unless the same be in writing duly executed by all parties hereto.
Modifications
          15. . This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original, and all of which shall constitute a single memorandum.
Original and Counterparts
          16. . This Agreement is the complete and exclusive statement of the agreement among the parties, superseding all proposals and prior agreements, oral or written, and all other communication among the parties relating to the subject matter herein. The parties understand and acknowledge that this Agreement is made without reliance upon any statement or representation other than those expressly contained herein. This Agreement shall not be subject to any claim of mistake of fact. This Agreement expresses the full and complete settlement of all liability claimed and denied and is intended to avoid litigation and to be final and complete.
Entire Agreement
          17. . Each of the parties hereto further states and represents that he or it has carefully read the foregoing Agreement, consisting of nine (9) pages, and knows the contents thereof, and that he or it has executed the same as his or its own free act and deed. Lough further acknowledges that he has been and is hereby advised to consult with an attorney concerning this Agreement and that he had adequate opportunity to seek the advice of legal counsel in connection with this Agreement. Lough also acknowledges that he has had the opportunity to ask questions about each and every provision of this Agreement and that he fully understands the effect of the provisions contained herein upon his legal rights.
Knowing and Voluntary Execution
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereto set his hand this 1 day of August, 2006.
st
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereto set its hand this 1 day of August, 2006.
st
 


