FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20061016163200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
          On October 16, 2006, Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. ("A&F Management"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant"), and Thomas Mendenhall executed an employment separation agreement, setting forth the terms and conditions of Mr. Mendenhall's separation from service with A&F Management and the Registrant (the "Separation Agreement"). Mr. Mendenhall had served as Senior Vice President and General Manager  Abercrombie & Fitch and abercrombie for the Registrant until his separation effective September 7, 2006.
          Under the terms of the Separation Agreement, in addition to certain continued welfare benefits, Mr. Mendenhall will be entitled to (a) a lump sum amount equal to twelve months' base salary, (b) bonus under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Incentive Compensation Performance Plan for the 2006 Fall Season, (c) payment of unused vacation; and (d) accelerated vesting of certain stock options and restricted shares.
          Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, Mr. Mendenhall agreed to non-disclosure and non-disparagement covenants (unlimited by time) and twelve-month non-competition and nonsolicitation covenants. Mr. Mendenhall also agreed to cooperate with the Registrant in defense of legal claims asserted against A&F Management or the Registrant.
          The foregoing description of the Separation Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Separation Agreement, which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 10.1
          This Agreement ("Agreement") is made by and between Thomas Mendenhall (hereinafter "Employee") and ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MANAGEMENT CO.a Delaware corporation (the "Company") (hereinafter collectively "the parties").
          WHEREAS, Employee has been employed by the Company as an officer since in or about November of 2004;
          WHEREAS, the parties acknowledge it is in their individual and mutual best interests for Employee to separate from employment as an officer of the Company; and
          WHEREAS, the parties wish to define the terms and conditions of Employee's separation from employment with the Company;
          NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for and in consideration of the following mutual covenants and promises, the undersigned parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
     1. . The Company and Employee agree that Employee shall separate from service with the Company effective September 7, 2006 ("Separation Date").
Separation from Employment
     2. . For purposes of this Agreement, the Effective Date of this Agreement shall be the eighth (8) day after Employee signs this Agreement ("Effective Date"), unless Employee has revoked the Agreement prior to that time in the manner discussed in Paragraph 10(d) below. On the Effective Date, Employee's employment with the Company and all further compensation, remuneration, bonuses, and eligibility of Employee under Company benefit plans shall terminate, and Employee shall not be entitled to receive any further payments or benefits of any kind from the Company, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or by applicable law.
Effective Date
th
     3. . The Company will provide to Employee the following (all hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Consideration"):
Consideration
 
     4. . The Company shall take such action as is necessary and advisable to accelerate the vesting of certain of the Employee's outstanding stock options and restricted shares as of the Effective Date, as follows:
Equity Compensation
 
Except as set forth in this Paragraph 4, Employee's outstanding stock options and restricted shares shall continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 1998 Restatement of the 1996 Stock Option and Performance Incentive Plan, 2002 Stock Plan for Associates and the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan and any agreements evidencing Employee's grants of stock options and restricted shares. The sale of shares pursuant to the exercise of options shall be registered on a Form S-8 or other registration statement to the same extent as such sales to similarly-situated senior executives of the Company are then subject to an effective registration statement.
     5. . None of the benefits provided in Paragraphs 3 and 4 will be terminated or diminished if Employee should accept or commence other employment following the Separation Date, so long as Employee has otherwise fully complied with the terms of this Agreement.
No Mitigation
     6. .
Employee Covenants
          a. . Employee shall not, without the written authorization of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") of the Company, use (except for the benefit of the Company) any Confidential and Trade Secret Information relating to the Company. Employee shall hold in strictest confidence and shall not, without the written authorization of the Chairman and CEO of the Company, disclose to anyone, other than directors, officers, employees and counsel of the Company in furtherance of the business of the Company, any Confidential and Trade Secret Information relating to the Company. For purposes of this Agreement, Confidential and Trade Secret information includes: the general or specific nature of any concept in development, the business plan or development schedule of any concept, vendor, merchant or customer lists or other processes, know-how, designs, formulas, methods, software, improvements, technology, new products, marketing and selling plans, business plans, development schedules, budgets and unpublished financial statements, licenses, prices and costs, suppliers, and information regarding the skills, compensation or duties of employees, independent contractors or consultants of the Company and any other information about the Company that is proprietary or confidential. Confidential and Trade Secret Information specifically includes, but is not limited to, the general and specific nature of, and information related to, the development of Concept 5 and Project P.
Non-Disclosure and Non-Use
          The restrictions set forth in this Section shall not apply to information that is or becomes generally available to the public or known within the Company's trade or industry (other than as a result of its wrongful disclosure by Employee), or information received on a non-confidential basis from sources other than the Company who are not in violation of a confidentiality agreement with the Company. This confidentiality covenant has no temporal, geographical or territorial restriction.
          Employee further represents and agrees that at and after the Separation Date he is obligated to comply with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") regarding trading shares and/or exercising options related to the Company's stock. Employee acknowledges that the Company has not provided opinions or legal advice to him regarding his obligations in this respect and that it is Employee's responsibility to seek independent legal advice with respect to any stock or option transaction.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company agrees: (i) to cooperate as reasonably necessary and appropriate with respect to equity compensation instructions issued by Employee's broker or authorized representative, subject in all respects to applicable federal, state, local or self regulatory entity securities laws, rules and/or regulations; and (ii) to notify Employee promptly of the removal or lifting of the restrictions on trading in the Company's stock imposed as a result of Project P.
          b. . Neither Employee nor any officer, director or other authorized spokesperson of the Company shall state or otherwise publish anything about the other party which would adversely affect the reputation, image or business relationships and goodwill of the other party in its/his market and community at large. Employee shall fully cooperate with the Company in defense of legal claims asserted against the Company and other matters requiring the testimony or input and knowledge of Employee. If at any time Employee should be required to cooperate with the Company pursuant to this Section, the Company agrees to reimburse Employee for reasonable costs and expenses incurred as a result thereof. Employee agrees that he will not speak or communicate with any party or representative of any party, who is known to Employee to be either adverse to the Company in litigation or administrative proceedings or to have threatened to commence litigation or administrative proceedings against the Company, with respect to the pending or threatened legal action, unless Employee receives the written consent of the Company to do so, or is otherwise compelled by law to do so, and then only after advance notice to the Company.
Non-Disparagement and Cooperation
          c. . During the twelve (12) month period following the Separation Date (the "Restricted Period"), Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the CEO, own, manage, operate, join, control, be employed by, consult with or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of, or be connected with (as a stockholder, partner, or otherwise), any entity listed on Appendix A attached to this Agreement, and any of their subsidiaries and affiliates engaged in a business that is competitive with the Company ("Competing Entity"); provided, however, that the "beneficial ownership" by Employee after the Separation Date, either individually or by a "group" of which Employee is a member as such terms are used in Rule 13d of the General Rules and Regulations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), of less than two percent (2%) of the voting stock of any publicly held corporation shall not be a violation of this Paragraph 6(c).
Non-Competition
          d. . During the Restricted Period, Employee shall not, either directly or indirectly, alone or in conjunction with another party, interfere with or harm, or attempt to interfere with or harm, the relationship of the Company with any person who at any time was a customer or supplier of the Company or otherwise had a business relationship with the Company. During the Restricted Period, Employee shall not hire, solicit for hire, aid in the hire, or cause to be hired, either as an employee, contractor or consultant, any person who is currently employed, or was employed at any time during the six (6) month period prior thereto, as an employee, contractor or consultant of the Company.
Non-Solicitation
 
          e. . Employee agrees that any breach of the terms of Paragraphs 6(a) through 6(d) of this Agreement would result in irreparable injury and damage to the Company for which the Company would have no adequate remedy at law. Employee agrees that in the event of said breach or any threat of breach, the Company shall be entitled to an immediate injunction and restraining order to prevent such breach and threatened breach and/or continued breach by Employee and/or any and all persons and/or entities acting for and/or with Employee, and without having to prove damages and to all costs and expenses incurred by the Company in seeking to enforce its rights under this Agreement. These remedies are in addition to any other remedies to which the Company may be entitled at law or in equity. Employee agrees that the covenants of Employee contained herein are reasonable and the Company would not have entered into this Agreement but for the inclusion of such covenants. Without limitation on the foregoing, the Company may cancel or recover from Employee, and Employee shall repay promptly and forfeit, the payments and consideration provided Employee in Paragraph 3 and 4 in the event that he violates the covenants contained herein. The existence of any claim or cause of action by Employee against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of the covenants and agreements of this Agreement; provided, however that this Paragraph shall not, in and of itself, preclude Employee from defending himself against the enforceability of the covenants and agreements of this Agreement.
Remedies
     7. . Employee agrees not to at any time talk about, write about, or otherwise publicize or disclose to any third party the terms of this Agreement or any fact concerning its negotiation, execution or implementation, except with: (1) an attorney, accountant, or other advisor engaged by Employee to advise him; (2) the Internal Revenue Service or other governmental agency upon proper request; and (3) his immediate family, including a domestic partner, providing that all such persons agree in advance to keep said information confidential and not to disclose it to others.
Confidentiality
     8. . Employee does hereby for himself and for each of his past, present and future heirs, administrators, executors, representatives, agents, attorneys, assigns and all others claiming by or through him or them, forever release and discharge the Company, and its past, present and future shareholders, representatives, agents, servants, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, divisions, officers, directors, employees, insurers, successors, predecessors, administrators, attorneys, assigns and all others claiming by or through them (hereinafter "the Released Parties") from any and all charges, claims, demands, judgments, actions, causes of action, damages, debts, agreements, remedies, promises, suits, losses, obligations, expenses, costs, attorneys' fees, liabilities and claims for relief of every kind and nature, whether matured or unmatured, known or unknown, direct or indirect, foreseen or unforeseen, vested or contingent, in law, equity or otherwise, under any federal or state statute or common law, which Employee has ever had, now has, or may have in the future, against any of the Released Parties for or on account of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever that was or could have been asserted or that occurred prior to the date of Employee signing this Agreement. This release shall include without limitation all claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, the Ohio Civil Rights Act, any claim for unpaid wages, and any other federal and state civil rights laws or laws relating to employment. The parties exclude from Employee's release all obligations expressly created or preserved by this Agreement, any statutory or common law rights Employee may have with respect to indemnification as an employee and officer of the Company (and any deductible with respect to any applicable directors and officers liability insurance maintained by the Company), all rights Employee would have absent this Agreement in restricted shares or stock options he currently owns, including all rights to exercise such options subsequent to the Effective Date of this Agreement, and all funds and rights Employee has in any pension, 401 (K), non-qualified plan or similar plan (collectively referred to as "unreleased rights"). Any unreleased rights of Employee shall be subject to the procedures, requirements, limitations, conditions and/or prerequisites set forth in any plan governing said rights.
Release of All Claims
 
     9. . The Company does hereby, on behalf of itself and its agents, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, divisions, officers, directors, employees, predecessors, successors and assigns, forever release, requite, and discharge Employee and his heirs, administrators, executors, agents and assigns, from any and all charges, claims, demands, judgments, actions, causes of action, damages expenses, costs, attorneys' fees and liabilities of any kind whatsoever, whether known or unknown, vested or contingent, in law, equity or otherwise, which the Company ever had, now has, or may hereafter have against Employee foror on account of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever which has occurred prior to the date of Employee's signing this Agreement.
Release of Employee by Company
     10. . Employee specifically acknowledges that the release of his claims under this Agreement includes, without limitation, waiver and release of all claims against the Company and Released Parties under the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA"), and Employee further acknowledges and agrees that:
Age Discrimination Claims and Older Worker's Benefit Protection Act Terms
 
     11. . This Agreement constitutes, among other things, a full and complete release of any and all claims released by either party, and it is the intention of the parties hereto that this Agreement is and shall be a complete and absolute defense to anything released hereunder. The parties expressly and knowingly waive their respective rights to assert any claims against the other which are released hereunder, and covenant not to sue the other party or Released Parties based upon any claims released hereunder. The parties further represent and warrant that no charges, claims or suits of any kind have been filed by either against the other as of the date of this Agreement.
Complete and Absolute Defense
     12. . It is understood that this Agreement is, among other things, an accommodation of the desires of each party, and the above-mentioned payments and covenants are not, and should not be construed as, an admission or acknowledgment by either party of any liability whatsoever to the other party or any other person or entity.
Non-Admission
     13. . Employee agrees that in connection with his resignation from employment, he shall promptly return to the Company all Company documents and property in his possession or control including, but not limited to, Personal Computer(s) and all Software, Security Keys and Badges, Price Lists, Supplier and Customer Lists, Employee Lists, including compensation, salary and benefit information, Files, Reports, all correspondence both internal and external (memo's, letters, quotes, etc.), Business Plans, Budgets, Designs, and any and all other property of the Company; and the Company shall promptly return to Employee his personal property and files.
Return of Property
     14. . Employee agrees that he shall be exclusively liable for payment of any and all taxes due by him in connection with the Severance and agrees to indemnify the Company for any liability incurred because of Employee's failure to pay such taxes, assessments, reimbursements, or penalties, which may be assessed by any taxing authority in connection with any payments made pursuant to this Agreement. Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the parties hereby agree that it is the intention that any payments or benefits provided under this Agreement comply in all respects with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and any guidance issued thereunder, and this Agreement shall be interpreted accordingly.
Tax Matters
     15. . Each of the parties hereto further states and represents that he or it has carefully read the foregoing Agreement, consisting of eleven (11) pages, and knows the contents thereof, and that he or it has executed the same as his or its own free act and deed. Employee further acknowledges that he has been and is hereby advised to consult with an attorney concerning this Agreement and that he had adequate opportunity to seek the advice of legal counsel in connection with this Agreement. Employee also acknowledges that he has had the opportunity to ask questions about each and every provision of this Agreement and that he fully understands the effect of the provisions contained herein upon his legal rights.
Knowing and Voluntary Execution
     16. . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, and any executed copy of this Agreement shall be valid and have the same force and effect as the originally-executed Agreement.
Executed Counterparts
 
     17. . The validity, construction and interpretation of this Agreement and the rights and duties of the parties hereto shall be governed by the laws of Ohio. Any actions or proceedings instituted under this Agreement with respect to any matters arising under or related to this Agreement, shall be brought and tried only in the Court of Common Pleas, Franklin County, Ohio.
Governing Law
     18. . No provision of this Agreement may be modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is agreed to in writing and signed by the Employee and the Company.
Modification
     19. . Employee's obligations and agreements under this Agreement shall be binding on the Employee's heirs, executors, legal representatives and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of any successors and assigns of the Company. The Company may, at any time, assign this Agreement or any of its rights or obligations arising hereunder to any party.
Assignability
     20. . This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter hereof and this Agreement supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements between the parties hereto in connection with the subject matter hereof.
Entire Agreement
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereto set his hand this 12th day of October, 2006.
WITNESSED:
/s/ Gretchen Harders
/s/ Kelly Pointer
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereto set its hand this 16th day of October, 2006.
          WITNESSED:
 


