FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20060410152352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On April 6, 2006, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended April 1, 2006 and net sales and comparable store sales for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the April 6, 2006 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with the April 6, 2006 news release, the Registrant has made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended April 1, 2006 and net sales and comparable store sales for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) through (c) Not applicable
(d)
Exhibits:
The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $256.7 million for the five-week period ended April 1, 2006, a 13% increase over last year's March net sales of $227.5 million. March comparable store sales were flat compared to the five-week period ended April 2, 2005.
New Albany, Ohio, April 6, 2006:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales increase of 16% to $449.5 million from $387.5 million last year. Comparable store sales increased 2% for the year-to-date period.
March 2006 Developments
The Company operated 349 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 161 abercrombie stores, 321 Hollister Co. stores and nine RUEHL stores at the end of March. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
To hear the Abercrombie & Fitch pre-recorded March sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2006 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; ability to hire, train and retain associates; and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

 
Exhibit 99.2
This is Tom Lennox, Vice President of Corporate Communications of Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended April 1, 2006.
st
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the five-week period ended April 1, 2006 were $256.7 million compared with $227.5 million last year, an increase of 13%. Comparable store sales for the five-week period were flat compared with the five-week period ended April 2, 2005. Year-to-date sales were $449.5 million versus $387.5 million last year, an increase of 16%. Comparable store sales increased 2% for the year-to-date period compared to last year.
st
nd
March's results reflect a shift in the Easter calendar which, as expected, reduced comps on a year over year basis. Pre-Easter selling fell in March last year versus April this year.
 
By business, Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales declined 9% with the men's and women's businesses declining by high-single digits. In the men's business, polos, woven tops, and personal care performed well; shorts and active-wear were negative. In women's, shorts, pants and fleece were strongest; jeans and skirts were negative.
In the kids business, abercrombie, comparable store sales increased 18% versus last year. Boys comps increased by high single-digits, with girls increasing by low-twenties. In boys, knit tops, shorts and accessories performed well; active-wear was weak. In the girls business, shorts, pants and fleece performed best with jeans posting negative comps.
Hollister comparable store sales increased 6%. Dudes' comps declined slightly with polos and shorts strongest; woven tops and jeans were negative. In bettys, comps increased by mid-single digits with knit tops, shorts, and pants performing best; jeans and sweaters were negative.
We will announce April sales on Thursday, May 4, 2006.
th
Thank you.


