FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20060302140825.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On March 2, 2006, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended February 25, 2006. A copy of the March 2, 2006 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with the March 2, 2006 news release, the Registrant has made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended February 25, 2006. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) through (c) Not applicable.
     (d) :
Exhibits
     The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $192.7 million for the four-week period ended February 25, 2006, a 21% increase over last year's February net sales of $159.9 million. February comparable store sales increased 5% compared to the four-week period ended February 26, 2005.
New Albany, Ohio, March 2, 2006:
February 2006 Developments
The Company operated 357 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 161 abercrombie stores, 320 Hollister Co. stores and eight RUEHL stores at the end of February. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
To hear the Abercrombie & Fitch pre-recorded February sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1. BUSINESS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2005, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2006 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; ability to hire, train and retain associates; and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

 
Exhibit 99.2
This is Tom Lennox, Vice President of Corporate Communications of Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended February 25, 2006.
th
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the four-week period ended February 25, 2006 were $192.7 million compared with $159.9 million last year, an increase of 21%. Comparable store sales for the four-week period increased 5% compared with the four-week period ended February 26, 2005.
th
th
February's comparable store sales increase was highlighted by strong comps at both Hollister and the kids business, abercrombie, partially offset by the Abercrombie & Fitch brand.
By business, Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales declined 6% with men's declining by mid-single digits and women's comps declining by high-single digits.
 
Men's comps were strongest in knit tops, graphic t-shirts and personal care; fleece was weak. In the women's business, knits, shorts and pants performed best; jeans and sweaters were weak.
Last Spring marked the beginning of our aggressive plan to benefit from the major trend in jeans. After a tremendously successful year in each of our jeans businesses, we entered this Spring with jeans planned-down versus last year, particularly in the feminine businesses at Abercrombie & Fitch and Hollister where the plan was reduced significantly. While we are not planning to anniversary last year's huge jeans business in either women's or betties, we believe that our investment in other trending classifications, including an increased build in non-denim bottoms, can offset last year's success in jeans. Going forward, jeans will continue to be a major classification, generating both strong sales productivity and contribution to gross margin.
In the kids business, abercrombie, comparable store sales increased 31% versus last year. Boys comps increased by mid-teens, with girls increasing by low-thirties.
 
In boys, knit tops, graphic t-shirts and jeans performed well and in girls, knit tops, graphic t-shirts, jeans and fleece performed best.
Hollister comparable store sales increased 15%, with dudes' comps increasing by mid-single digits; graphic t-shirts and knit tops were strongest. In betties, comps increased by mid-teens with knit tops, graphic t-shirts, fleece, skirts and pants performing best, partially offset by weakness in jeans.
We will announce March sales on Thursday, April 6th, 2006.
Thank you.


