FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20070308135552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On March 8, 2007, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended March 3, 2007. A copy of the March 8, 2007 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with the March 8, 2007 news release, the Registrant made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended March 3, 2007. To listen to this pre-recorded sales message, dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) through (c) Not applicable.
     (d) :
Exhibits
     The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $206.6 million for the four-week period ended March 3, 2007, a 7% increase over net sales of $192.7 million for the four-week period ended February 25, 2006. February comparable store sales decreased 6%. Total Company direct-to-consumer net sales increased 32% to $12.2 million for the four-week period ended March 3, 2007, compared to the four-week period ended February 25, 2006.
New Albany, Ohio, March 8, 2007:
February 2007 Developments
London Flagship
On March 22, 2007, the Company plans to open its first European location, a flagship in London, at 7 Burlington Gardens. The Company will hold a security analyst tour of the store on March 20, 2007 at 10:00 AM GMT. Analysts interested in attending the event should contact Jill Swansegar, Investor Relations and Communications Coordinator at (614) 283-6751 or via email at jill_swansegar@abercrombie.com.
The Company operated 358 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 178 abercrombie stores, 392 Hollister Co. stores and 15 RUEHL stores in the United States at the end of fiscal February. The Company also operated three Abercrombie & Fitch stores and three Hollister Co. stores in Canada. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
To hear the Abercrombie & Fitch pre-recorded February sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2006, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2006 Fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; ability to hire, train and retain associates; and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

 
This is Tom Lennox, Vice President of Corporate Communications of Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended March 3rd, 2007.
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the four-week period ended March 3rd, 2007, were $206.6 million, a 7% increase over net sales of $192.7 million for the four-week period ended February 25, 2006. Total Company direct-to-consumer net sales increased 32% to $12.2 million for the four-week period ended March 3, 2007, compared to the four-week period ended February 25, 2006. February comparable store sales decreased 6%.
By brand, Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales decreased 4%. Men's comps declined by a low single digit; women's comps declined by a mid-single digit. Transactions per store decreased 1%; average transaction value decreased 3%.
In the kids business, abercrombie, comparable store sales decreased 4%. Boys comps decreased by a low single digit, girls comps decreased by a mid-single digit. Transactions per store increased 2%; average transaction value decreased 3%.
Hollister comparable store sales decreased 9%. Dudes comps decreased by a mid-single digit; Bettys comps decreased by a low double digit. Transactions per store decreased 9%; average transaction value was flat to last year.
RUEHL comparable store sales decreased 12%. Men's and women's comps decreased by a low double digit. Transactions per store increased 22%; average transaction value declined 17%.
From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included fleece tops, active bottoms, and fragrance while jeans and knit tops posted negative comps. In the feminine businesses, again on a total company basis, shorts, sweaters and swim performed well; jeans and skirts posted negative comps.
By region, comps were strongest in the Northeast and weakest in the West.
We will announce March sales on Thursday, April 12th, 2007.
Thank You.


