FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20070827151833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On August 22, 2007, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release (the "Release") reporting the Registrant's unaudited financial results for the thirteen weeks (quarterly period) ended August 4, 2007. A copy of the Release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The Registrant also made available in conjunction with the Release additional quarterly financial information as of and for the quarterly period ended August 4, 2007, as of and for the quarterly period ended May 5, 2007 and as of and for the quarterly periods during the fiscal years ended February 3, 2007, January 28, 2006 and January 29, 2005. The additional quarterly financial information is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The Registrant's management conducted a conference call on August 22, 2007, at approximately 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time, to review the Registrant's financial results for the thirteen weeks ended August 4, 2007. Additionally, the Registrant's management addressed plans for the second half of the fiscal year ending February 2, 2008 on the conference call. A copy of the transcript of the conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     At the meeting of the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of the Registrant held on August 21, 2007, the Compensation Committee approved (i) the form of Stock Option Agreement to be used to evidence the grant of nonstatutory stock options to employees of the Registrant and its subsidiaries under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2007 Plan") and (ii) the form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement to be used to evidence the grant of restricted stock units to employees of the Registrant and its subsidiaries under the 2007 Plan. The form of Stock Option Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. A description of the material terms of the 2007 Plan was included in the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement, dated May 10, 2007, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on May 10, 2007, under the caption "PROPOSAL TO APPROVE ADOPTION OF THE ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 2007 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN," and incorporated by reference into "Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers" of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 18, 2007 (the "June 18, 2007 Form 8-K"). The 2007 Plan was filed with the June 18, 2007 Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.2.
 
     Consistent with the terms of the 2007 Plan, the form of Stock Option Agreement contemplates that each nonstatutory stock option ("NSO") evidenced thereby will be granted with an exercise price equal to the per share closing price of the Registrant's Class A Common Stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the grant date and a ten-year term, subject to earlier expiration or forfeiture in accordance with the provisions of the 2007 Plan and the optionee's Stock Option Agreement. The form of Stock Option Agreement provides for the vesting of the NSO evidenced thereby in annual installments (which may or may not be equal) beginning on the first anniversary of the grant date, subject to the continued employment of the optionee by the Registrant or one of its subsidiaries on such vesting date. The form of Stock Option Agreement also provides for the acceleration of vesting if an optionee becomes totally disabled or dies while employed by the Registrant or one of its subsidiaries. The form of Stock Option Agreement contemplates that unless the Board of the Registrant or the Compensation Committee provides otherwise prior to a "Change of Control" (as defined in the 2007 Plan), upon a Change of Control, the provisions of Section 9 of the 2007 Plan will govern the treatment of the NSO. The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of Stock Option Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
     Each restricted stock unit evidenced by the form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement represents the right to receive one issued and outstanding share of the Registrant's Class A Common Stock, subject to the restrictions, conditions and other terms set forth in the Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. Consistent with the terms of the 2007 Plan, the form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement contemplates that restricted stock units evidenced thereby will be granted subject to a period of restriction which will lapse, and the restricted stock units will vest, in installments (which may or may not be equal) beginning on the grant date, subject to the continued employment of the participant by the Registrant or one of its subsidiaries on such vesting date. The form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement provides for the acceleration of the lapsing of the restricted period if a participant becomes totally disabled or dies while employed by the Registrant or one of its subsidiaries. Upon the retirement of a participant, the Compensation Committee may, but is not required to, shorten or terminate the restricted period applicable to the participant's restricted stock units. Except as the Compensation Committee may at any time provide, if the employment of a participant with the Registrant and its subsidiaries is terminated for any other reason prior to the lapsing of the applicable restricted period, the participant's restricted stock units will be forfeited to the Registrant. The form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement contemplates that unless the Board of the Registrant or the Compensation Committee provides otherwise prior to a Change of Control, upon a Change of Control, the provisions of Section 9 of the 2007 Plan will govern the treatment of the restricted stock units. The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 5.05. Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics.
     At the meeting of the Board of the Registrant held on August 21, 2007, the Board adopted amendments to the Abercrombie & Fitch Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code of Ethics") in order to conform the provisions of the Code of Ethics with the guidelines and procedures set forth in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Related Person Transaction Policy adopted by the Board at the August 21, 2007 meeting, as discussed in "Item 8.01. Other Events" of this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Code of Ethics is applicable to all associates, including every officer and director, of the Registrant and its operating subsidiaries. The amendments clarify that the Nominating and Board Governance Committee (the "Nominating Committee") of the Board may approve related person transactions if required or appropriate under the applicable policies of the Registrant (including the Related Person Transaction Policy). In addition, the amendments clarify that if a potential conflict of interest arises concerning an officer of director of the Registrant or a subsidiary of the Registrant, all information regarding the issue should be reported to the General Counsel of the Registrant for review and, if appropriate or required under the applicable policies of the Registrant, submission to the Nominating Committee for review and the taking of such course of action as the Nominating Committee deems appropriate. The Code of Ethics, as amended on August 21, 2007, is included as Exhibit 14 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Code of Ethics, as amended on August 21, 2007, has been posted on the "Corporate Governance" page of the Registrant's website at www.abercrombie.com, accessible through the "Investors" page, and is available in print from the Registrant by sending a request to the Investor Relations Department, 6301 Fitch Path, New Albany, Ohio 43054.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
     In the Release, the Registrant also announced that the Board of the Registrant had declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.175 per share in respect of the Registrant's Class A Common Stock. The dividend was declared on August 22, 2007 and is payable on September 25, 2007 to stockholders of record at the close of business on September 4, 2007.
     At the meeting of the Board of the Registrant held on August 21, 2007, the Board adopted the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Related Person Transaction Policy, which was recommended by the Nominating Committee. The Related Person Transaction Policy sets forth the guidelines and procedures under which the transactions falling within the scope of the Related Person Transaction Policy are to be reviewed and approved or ratified. The Related Person Transaction Policy is included as Exhibit 99.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and has been posted on the "Corporate Governance" page of the Registrant's website at www.abercrombie.com, accessible through the "Investors" page.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (a) through (c) Not applicable
     (d) 
Exhibits:
     The following exhibits are included with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT (this "AGREEMENT") is made to be effective as of , 200___ (the "GRANT DATE"), by and between Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY"), and (the "OPTIONEE").
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan of the COMPANY (the "PLAN"), the Compensation Committee (the "COMMITTEE") of the Board of Directors of the COMPANY (the "BOARD") administers the PLAN; and
     WHEREAS, the COMMITTEE has determined that an option to purchase () shares of Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value (the "SHARES"), of the COMPANY should be granted to the OPTIONEE upon the terms and conditions set forth in this AGREEMENT;
                    
                    
                    
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto make the following agreement, intending to be legally bound thereby:
     1. . Pursuant to, and subject to, the terms and conditions set forth in this AGREEMENT and in the PLAN, the COMPANY hereby grants to the OPTIONEE an option (the "OPTION") to purchase () SHARES of the COMPANY (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN). The OPTION is not intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "CODE").
Grant of OPTION
                    
                    
                    
     2. .
Terms and Conditions of the OPTION
          (A) . The purchase price (the "OPTION PRICE") to be paid by the OPTIONEE to the COMPANY upon the exercise of the OPTION shall be $ per share, which is the per share closing price of the SHARES of the COMPANY as reported on the New York Stock Exchange on the GRANT DATE (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN).
OPTION PRICE
            
          (B) . Except as provided under Sections 3 and 5 of this AGREEMENT, no portion of the OPTION may be exercised until the first anniversary of the GRANT DATE, provided that the OPTIONEE is employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary of the COMPANY on such date. Thereafter, except as otherwise provided in this AGREEMENT, the OPTION may be exercised as follows:
Exercise of the OPTION
                    (i) at any time after the first anniversary of the GRANT DATE, as to % of the SHARES subject to the OPTION (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN), provided that the OPTIONEE is employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary of the COMPANY on such date;
            
 
                    (ii) at any time after the second anniversary of the GRANT DATE, as to an additional % of the SHARES subject to the OPTION (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN), provided that the OPTIONEE is employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary of the COMPANY on such date;
            
                    (iii) at any time after the third anniversary of the GRANT DATE, as to an additional % of the SHARES subject to the OPTION (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN), provided that the OPTIONEE is employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary of the COMPANY on such date; and
            
                    (iv) at any time after the fourth anniversary of the GRANT DATE, as to an additional % of the SHARES subject to the OPTION (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN), provided that the OPTIONEE is employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary of the COMPANY on such date.
            
     Subject to the other provisions of this AGREEMENT, including Section 5, if the OPTION becomes vested and exercisable as to certain SHARES, it shall remain exercisable as to those SHARES until the date of expiration of the OPTION term. The COMMITTEE may, but shall not be required to (unless otherwise provided in this AGREEMENT), accelerate the vesting and exercisability of the OPTION.
     The grant of the OPTION shall not confer upon the OPTIONEE any right to continue in the employment of the COMPANY or any of its subsidiaries or interfere with or limit in any way the right of the COMPANY or any of its subsidiaries to modify the terms of or terminate the employment of the OPTIONEE at any time in accordance with applicable law and the COMPANY's or the subsidiary's governing corporate documents.
          (C) . The OPTION shall in no event be exercisable after the expiration of ten years from the GRANT DATE and shall expire on such date.
OPTION Term
          (D) . The OPTION may be exercised by giving written or electronic notice of exercise to the COMMITTEE, in care of the Human Resources Department of the COMPANY, or such third-party administrator as the Human Resources Department may from time to time designate, stating the number of SHARES subject to the OPTION in respect of which the OPTION is being exercised. Payment for all such SHARES shall be made to the COMPANY at the time the OPTION is exercised or pursuant to a cashless exercise procedure approved by the COMMITTEE in United States dollars in cash (including certified check). Payment for such SHARES may also be made (i) by tender of SHARES of the COMPANY already owned by the OPTIONEE for at least six months (either by actual delivery of the already-owned SHARES or by attestation) and having a fair market value (based on the closing sale price of the SHARES as reported on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the SHARES are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, "fair market value" as defined in the PLAN) on the date of tender equal to the OPTION PRICE or (ii) by a combination of the delivery of cash and the tender of already-owned SHARES. After payment in full for the SHARES purchased under the OPTION has been made, the COMPANY shall take all such actions as are necessary to deliver an appropriate certificate or other
Method of Exercise
 
evidence of ownership representing the SHARES purchased upon the exercise of the OPTION as promptly thereafter as is reasonably practicable.
          (E) . The COMPANY shall have the right to require the OPTIONEE to remit to the COMPANY an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements in respect of the exercise of the OPTION. These tax withholding requirements may be satisfied in one of several ways, including:
Tax Withholding
                    (i) The OPTIONEE may give the COMPANY cash equal to the amount required to be withheld or tender SHARES of the COMPANY already owned by the OPTIONEE for at least six months by actual delivery of the already-owned SHARES and having a fair market value (based on the closing sale price of the SHARES as reported on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the SHARES are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, "fair market value" as defined in the PLAN) on the exercise date equal to the amount required to be withheld; or
                    (ii) The COMPANY may withhold SHARES otherwise issuable upon exercise of the OPTION having a fair market value (based on the closing sale price of the SHARES as reported on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the SHARES are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, "fair market value" as defined in the PLAN) on the exercise date equal to the amount required to be withheld (but only to the extent of the minimum amount that must be withheld to comply with applicable state, federal and local income, employment and wage tax laws).
     3. . Unless the BOARD or COMMITTEE provides otherwise prior to a "Change of Control" (as such term is defined in the PLAN), upon a Change of Control, Section 9 of the PLAN shall govern the treatment of the OPTION.
Change of Control
     4. . The OPTION may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated (whether by operation of law or otherwise) by the OPTIONEE, except as provided by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution, and the OPTION shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.
Non-Transferability of OPTION
     5. .
Exercise After Termination of Employment
          (A) Except as the COMMITTEE may at any time provide, if the employment of the OPTIONEE with the COMPANY and its subsidiaries is terminated for any reason other than death or "total disability" (as defined below), the OPTION may be exercised (to the extent that the OPTIONEE was entitled to do so on the date of the termination of the OPTIONEE's employment) at any time within three months after such termination of employment, subject to the provisions of Section 2(C) of this AGREEMENT, and shall then expire. To the extent the OPTIONEE was not entitled to exercise the OPTION on the date of termination of the OPTIONEE's employment, such portion of the OPTION shall expire on the date of such termination.
          (B) If the OPTIONEE becomes totally disabled, the OPTION shall become immediately vested and exercisable in full, and the OPTION may be exercised at any time during
 
the first twelve (12) months that the OPTIONEE receives benefits under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Long-Term Disability Program, or any successor program, subject to the provisions of Section 2(C) of this AGREEMENT, and shall then expire.
          (C) If the OPTIONEE dies while employed by the COMPANY or one of its subsidiaries, the OPTION shall become immediately vested and exercisable in full by the OPTIONEE's estate or by the person who acquires the right to exercise the OPTION upon the OPTIONEE's death by bequest or inheritance. The OPTION may be exercised at any time within one year after the date of the OPTIONEE's death, or such other period as the COMMITTEE may at any time provide, subject to the provisions of Section 2(C) of this AGREEMENT, and shall then expire.
          (D) For purposes of this AGREEMENT, "total disability" shall have the definition set forth in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Long-Term Disability Program, which definition is incorporated herein by reference.
     6. .
Forfeiture of OPTION
          (A) The OPTION shall be subject to the following additional forfeiture conditions, to which the OPTIONEE, by accepting the OPTION, agrees. If any of the events specified in Section 6(B)(i), (ii), or (iii) occurs (a "FORFEITURE EVENT"), the following forfeiture will result:
                    (i) The unexercised portion of the OPTION held by the OPTIONEE, whether or not vested, will be immediately forfeited and canceled upon the occurrence of the FORFEITURE EVENT; and
                    (ii) The OPTIONEE will be obligated to repay to the Company, in cash, within five business days after demand is made therefor by the Company, the total amount of "AWARD GAIN" (as defined below) realized by the OPTIONEE upon each exercise of the OPTION that occurred on or after (I) the date that is six months prior to the occurrence of the FORFEITURE EVENT, if the FORFEITURE EVENT occurred while the OPTIONEE was employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate, or (II) the date that is six months prior to the date the OPTIONEE's employment by the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate terminated, if the FORFEITURE EVENT occurred after the OPTIONEE ceased to be so employed. For purposes of this Section, the term "AWARD GAIN" shall mean, in respect of a given OPTION exercise, the product of (x) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock at the date of such exercise (without regard to any subsequent change in the market price of shares) minus the exercise price times (y) the number of shares as to which the OPTION was exercised at that date.
          (B) The forfeitures specified in Section 6(A) will be triggered upon the occurrence of any one of the following FORFEITURE EVENTS at any time during OPTIONEE's employment by the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate, or during the one-year period following termination of such employment:
                    (i) OPTIONEE, acting alone or with others, directly or indirectly, (I) engages, either as employee, employer, consultant, advisor, or director, or as an owner, investor, partner, or stockholder unless OPTIONEE's interest is insubstantial, in any business in an area or
 
region in which the COMPANY conducts business at the date the event occurs, which is directly in competition with a business then conducted by the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate; (II) induces any customer or supplier of the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate, with which the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate has a business relationship, to curtail, cancel, not renew, or not continue his or her or its business with the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate; or (III) induces, or attempts to influence, any employee of or service provider to the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate to terminate such employment or service. The COMMITTEE shall, in its discretion, determine which lines of business the COMPANY conducts on any particular date and which third parties may reasonably be deemed to be in competition with the COMPANY. For purposes of this Section 6(B)(i), OPTIONEE's interest as a stockholder is insubstantial if it represents beneficial ownership of less than five percent of the outstanding class of stock, and OPTIONEE's interest as an owner, investor, or partner is insubstantial if it represents ownership, as determined by the COMMITTEE in its discretion, of less than five percent of the outstanding equity of the entity;
                    (ii) OPTIONEE discloses, uses, sells, or otherwise transfers, except in the course of employment with or other service to the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate, any confidential or proprietary information of the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate, including but not limited to information regarding the COMPANY's current and potential customers, organization, employees, finances, and methods of operations and investments, so long as such information has not otherwise been disclosed to the public or is not otherwise in the public domain (other than by OPTIONEE's breach of this provision), except as required by law or pursuant to legal process, or OPTIONEE makes statements or representations, or otherwise communicates, directly or indirectly, in writing, orally, or otherwise, or takes any other action which may, directly or indirectly, disparage or be damaging to the COMPANY or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or their respective officers, directors, employees, advisors, businesses or reputations, except as required by law or pursuant to legal process; or
                    (iii) OPTIONEE fails to cooperate with the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate in any way, including, without limitation, by making himself or herself available to testify on behalf of the COMPANY or such subsidiary or affiliate in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, or otherwise fails to assist the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate in any way, including, without limitation, in connection with any such action, suit, or proceeding by providing information and meeting and consulting with members of management of, other representatives of, or counsel to, the COMPANY or such subsidiary or affiliate, as reasonably requested.
          (C) Despite the conditions set forth in this Section 6, an OPTIONEE is not hereby prohibited from engaging in any activity, including but not limited to competition with the COMPANY and its subsidiaries and affiliates. Rather, the non-occurrence of the FORFEITURE EVENTS set forth in Section 6(B) is a condition to the OPTIONEE's right to realize and retain value from the OPTION, and the consequence under the PLAN and this AGREEMENT if the OPTIONEE engages in an activity giving rise to any such FORFEITURE EVENTS are the forfeitures specified therein and herein. The COMPANY and OPTIONEE
 
shall not be precluded by this provision or otherwise from entering into other agreements concerning the subject matter of Sections 6(A) and 6(B).
          (D) The COMMITTEE may, in its discretion, waive in whole or in part the COMPANY's right to forfeiture under this Section 6, but no such waiver shall be effective unless evidenced by a writing signed by a duly authorized officer of the COMPANY.
     7. . Anything contained in this Agreement or elsewhere to the contrary notwithstanding, the COMPANY may postpone the issuance and delivery of SHARES upon any exercise of the OPTION until completion of any stock exchange listing or registration or other qualification of such SHARES under any state or federal law, rule or regulation as the COMPANY may consider appropriate; and may require the OPTIONEE when exercising the OPTION to make such representations and furnish such information as the COMPANY may consider appropriate in connection with the issuance of the SHARES in compliance with applicable laws, rules and regulations. SHARES issued and delivered upon exercise of the OPTION shall be subject to such restrictions on trading, including appropriate legending of certificates to that effect, as the COMPANY, in its discretion, shall determine are necessary to satisfy applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Restrictions on Transfers of SHARES
     8. . The OPTIONEE shall have no rights as a stockholder of the COMPANY with respect to any SHARES of the COMPANY covered by the OPTION until the date of issuance to the OPTIONEE of a certificate or other evidence of ownership representing such SHARES.
Rights of the OPTIONEE as a Stockholder
     9. . All terms and conditions of the PLAN applicable to the OPTION which are not set forth in this AGREEMENT shall be deemed incorporated herein by reference. In the event that any term or condition of this AGREEMENT is inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the PLAN, the PLAN shall be deemed controlling. The OPTIONEE acknowledges receipt of a copy of the PLAN and of the Prospectus related to the PLAN. The OPTIONEE also acknowledges that all decisions, determinations and interpretations of the COMMITTEE in respect of the PLAN, this AGREEMENT and the OPTION shall be final, conclusive and binding on the OPTIONEE, all other persons interested in the PLAN and stockholders.
PLAN as Controlling; OPTIONEE Acknowledgments
     10. . To the extent not preempted by federal law, this AGREEMENT shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
     11. . All rights and remedies of the COMPANY and of the OPTIONEE enumerated in this AGREEMENT shall be cumulative and, except as expressly provided otherwise in this AGREEMENT, none shall exclude any other rights or remedies allowed by law or in equity, and each of said rights or remedies may be exercised and enforced concurrently.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
     12. . The captions contained in this AGREEMENT are included only for convenience of reference and do not define, limit, explain or modify this AGREEMENT or its interpretation, construction or meaning and are in no way to be construed as a part of this AGREEMENT.
Captions
 
     13. . If any provision of this AGREEMENT or the application of any provision hereof to any person or any circumstance shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable, then such determination shall not affect any other provision of this AGREEMENT or the application of said provision to any other person or circumstance, all of which other provisions shall remain in full force and effect, and it is the intention of each party to this AGREEMENT that if any provision of this AGREEMENT is susceptible of two or more constructions, one of which would render the provision enforceable and the other or others of which would render the provision unenforceable, then the provision shall have the meaning which renders it enforceable.
Severability
     14. . When used in this AGREEMENT, the number and gender of each pronoun shall be construed to be such number and gender as the context, circumstances or its antecedent may required.
Number and Gender
     15. . This AGREEMENT, including the PLAN incorporated herein by reference, constitutes the entire agreement between the COMPANY and the OPTIONEE in respect of the subject matter of this AGREEMENT, and this AGREEMENT supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements between the parties hereto in connection with the subject matter of this AGREEMENT. No officer, employee or other servant or agent of the COMPANY, and no servant or agent of the OPTIONEE, is authorized to make any representation, warranty or other promise not contained in this AGREEMENT. Other than as set forth in Section 11(e) of the Plan, no change, termination or attempted waiver of any of the provisions of this AGREEMENT shall be binding upon either party hereto unless contained in a writing signed by the party to be charged.
Entire Agreement
     16. . The obligations of the COMPANY under this AGREEMENT shall be binding upon any successor corporation or organization resulting from the merger, consolidation or other reorganization of the COMPANY, or upon any successor corporation or organization succeeding to substantially all of the assets and businesses of the COMPANY.
Successors of the COMPANY
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the COMPANY has caused this AGREEMENT to be executed by its duly authorized officer, and the OPTIONEE has executed this AGREEMENT, in each case effective as of the GRANT DATE.

 
Exhibit 10.2
     This RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT (this "AGREEMENT") is made to be effective as of , 200___ (the "GRANT DATE"), by and between Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY"), and , an employee of the COMPANY (the "PARTICIPANT").
                    
                    
                    
     WHEREAS, pursuant to the provisions of the 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan of the COMPANY (the "PLAN"), the Compensation Committee (the "COMMITTEE") of the Board of Directors of the COMPANY (the "BOARD") administers the PLAN; and
     WHEREAS, the COMMITTEE has determined that the PARTICIPANT should be granted rights to receive () shares of Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value, of the COMPANY (such rights, the "RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS"), subject to the restrictions, conditions and other terms set forth in this AGREEMENT;
                    
                    
                    
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto make the following agreement, intending to be legally bound thereby:
     1. . The COMPANY hereby grants to the PARTICIPANT () RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS of the COMPANY (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN and Section 5(E) of this Agreement, if applicable). Each RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT shall represent the right to receive one issued and outstanding share of Class A Common Stock, $0.01 par value (the "COMMON SHARES"), of the COMPANY, but shall be subject to the restrictions, conditions and other terms set forth in this AGREEMENT.
Grant of RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
                    
                    
                    
     2. .
Terms and Conditions of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
          (A) . Except as provided under Sections 3 and 4 of this AGREEMENT, the period of restriction (the "RESTRICTED PERIOD"), after which the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall become vested and no longer be subject to forfeiture to the COMPANY shall lapse according to the following schedule:
RESTRICTED PERIOD
                    (i) the RESTRICTED PERIOD shall lapse as to % of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN), and such RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall become vested, on the GRANT DATE, provided the PARTICIPANT is employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary of the COMPANY on such date;
                    
                    (ii) the RESTRICTED PERIOD shall lapse as to an additional % of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN), and such RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall become vested, on the ___
                    
 
anniversary of the GRANT DATE, provided the PARTICIPANT is employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary of the COMPANY on such date;
                    (iii) the RESTRICTED PERIOD shall lapse as to an additional % of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN), and such RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall become vested, on the ___ anniversary of the GRANT DATE, provided the PARTICIPANT is employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary of the COMPANY on such date; and
            
                    (iv) the RESTRICTED PERIOD shall lapse as to an additional % of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c) of the PLAN), and such RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall become vested, on the ___ anniversary of the GRANT DATE, provided the PARTICIPANT is employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary of the COMPANY on such date.
            
          (B) . RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated (whether by operation of law or otherwise) by the PARTICIPANT, except as provided by will or by the applicable laws of descent and distribution, and the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process.
Non-Transferability of RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
          (C) . Upon the lapse of the RESTRICTED PERIOD applicable to any RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS, as promptly as is reasonably practicable, and in no case later than March 15th of the year after the year the RESTRICTED PERIOD lapses, COMMON SHARES shall be issued to the PARTICIPANT and the COMPANY shall deliver a stock certificate or other appropriate documentation evidencing the number of COMMON SHARES of the COMPANY issued in settlement of such vested RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS to the PARTICIPANT.
Lapse of RESTRICTED PERIOD
          (D) . The COMPANY shall have the right to require the PARTICIPANT to remit to the COMPANY an amount sufficient to satisfy any applicable federal, state and local tax withholding requirements in respect of the settlement of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. These tax withholding requirements may be satisfied in one of several ways, including:
Tax Withholding
                    (i) The PARTICIPANT may give the COMPANY cash equal to the amount required to be withheld or tender COMMON SHARES of the COMPANY already owned by the PARTICIPANT for at least six months by actual delivery of the already-owned COMMON SHARES and having a fair market value (based on the closing sale price of the COMMON SHARES as reported on the New York Stock Exchange or, if the COMMON SHARES are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, "fair market value" as defined in the PLAN) on the date of settlement equal to the amount required to be withheld; or
                    (ii) The COMPANY may withhold COMMON SHARES otherwise deliverable upon settlement of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS having a fair market value (based on the closing sale price of the COMMON SHARES as reported on the New York Stock
 
Exchange or, if the COMMON SHARES are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, "fair market value" as defined in the PLAN) on the date of settlement equal to the amount required to be withheld (but only to the extent of the minimum amount that must be withheld to comply with applicable state, federal and local income, employment and wage tax laws).
          (E) . With respect to this RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD, the PARTICIPANT shall have no rights as a stockholder of the COMPANY (including the right to vote or receive dividends) with respect to any COMMON SHARES of the COMPANY until the date of issuance to the PARTICIPANT of a certificate or other evidence of ownership representing such COMMON SHARES in settlement thereof. In addition, dividend equivalents will not be paid or payable with respect to the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS subject to this AGREEMENT.
Rights as Holder of RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
     3. . Unless the BOARD or COMMITTEE provides otherwise prior to a "Change of Control" (as such term is defined in the PLAN), upon a Change of Control, Section 9 of the PLAN shall govern the treatment of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.
Change of Control
     4. .
Effect of Termination of Employment
          (A) The grant of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall not confer upon the PARTICIPANT any right to continue in the employment of the COMPANY or any of its subsidiaries or interfere with or limit in any way the right of the COMPANY or any of its subsidiaries to modify the terms of or terminate the employment of the PARTICIPANT at any time in accordance with applicable law and the COMPANY's or the subsidiary's governing corporate documents.
          (B) Except as the COMMITTEE may at any time provide, and subject to Section 4(E) below, if the employment of the PARTICIPANT with the COMPANY and its subsidiaries is terminated for any reason other than death or "total disability" (as defined below) prior to the lapsing of the RESTRICTED PERIOD applicable to any RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS, such RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall be forfeited to the COMPANY.
          (C) If the PARTICIPANT becomes totally disabled prior to the lapsing of the RESTRICTED PERIOD applicable to any RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS, such RESTRICTED PERIOD shall immediately lapse and the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall become fully vested.
          (D) If the PARTICIPANT dies while employed by the COMPANY or one of its subsidiaries prior to the lapsing of the RESTRICTED PERIOD applicable to any RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS, such RESTRICTED PERIOD shall immediately lapse and the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall become fully vested.
          (E) Upon the retirement of the PARTICIPANT, the COMMITTEE may, but shall not be required to, shorten or terminate the RESTRICTED PERIOD applicable to the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.
 
          (F) For purposes of this AGREEMENT, "total disability" shall have the definition set forth in the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Long-Term Disability Program, which definition is incorporated herein by reference.
     5. .
Forfeiture of RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
          (A) The RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall be subject to the following additional forfeiture conditions, to which the PARTICIPANT, by accepting the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS, agrees. If any of the events specified in Section 5(B)(i), (ii), or (iii) occurs (a "FORFEITURE EVENT"), the following forfeiture will result:
                    (i) any RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS held by the PARTICIPANT and not then settled will be immediately forfeited and canceled upon the occurrence of the Forfeiture Event; and
                    (ii) The PARTICIPANT will be obligated to repay to the Company, in cash, within five business days after demand is made therefor by the Company, the total amount of "AWARD GAIN" (as defined below) realized by the PARTICIPANT upon each settlement of RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS that occurred on or after (x) the date that is six months prior to the occurrence of the FORFEITURE EVENT, if the FORFEITURE EVENT occurred while the PARTICIPANT was employed by the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate, or (y) the date that is six months prior to the date the PARTICIPANT's employment by the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate terminated, if the FORFEITURE EVENT occurred after the PARTICIPANT ceased to be so employed. For purposes of this Section, the term "AWARD GAIN" shall mean, in respect of any settlement of RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS granted to the Participant, the Fair Market Value of the cash or COMMON SHARES paid or payable to the Participant (regardless of any elective deferrals).
          (B) The forfeitures specified in Section 5(A) will be triggered upon the occurrence of any one of the following FORFEITURE EVENTS at any time during PARTICIPANT' employment by the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate, or during the one-year period following termination of such employment:
                    (i) PARTICIPANT, acting alone or with others, directly or indirectly, (I) engages, either as employee, employer, consultant, advisor, or director, or as an owner, investor, partner, or stockholder unless PARTICIPANT's interest is insubstantial, in any business in an area or region in which the COMPANY conducts business at the date the event occurs, which is directly in competition with a business then conducted by the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate; (II) induces any customer or supplier of the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate, with which the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate has a business relationship, to curtail, cancel, not renew, or not continue his or her or its business with the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate; or (III) induces, or attempts to influence, any employee of or service provider to the COMPANY or a subsidiary or affiliate to terminate such employment or service. The COMMITTEE shall, in its discretion, determine which lines of business the COMPANY conducts on any particular date and which third parties may reasonably be deemed to be in competition with the COMPANY. For purposes of this Section 5(B)(i), an PARTICIPANT's interest as a stockholder is insubstantial if it represents beneficial ownership of less than five percent of the outstanding class of stock, and a
 
PARTICIPANT's interest as an owner, investor, or partner is insubstantial if it represents ownership, as determined by the COMMITTEE in its discretion, of less than five percent of the outstanding equity of the entity;
                    (ii) PARTICIPANT discloses, uses, sells, or otherwise transfers, except in the course of employment with or other service to the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate, any confidential or proprietary information of the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate, including but not limited to information regarding the COMPANY's current and potential customers, organization, employees, finances, and methods of operations and investments, so long as such information has not otherwise been disclosed to the public or is not otherwise in the public domain (other than by PARTICIPANT's breach of this provision), except as required by law or pursuant to legal process, or PARTICIPANT makes statements or representations, or otherwise communicates, directly or indirectly, in writing, orally, or otherwise, or takes any other action which may, directly or indirectly, disparage or be damaging to the COMPANY or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or their respective officers, directors, employees, advisors, businesses or reputations, except as required by law or pursuant to legal process; or
                    (iii) PARTICIPANT fails to cooperate with the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate in any way, including, without limitation, by making himself or herself available to testify on behalf of the COMPANY or such subsidiary or affiliate in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, or otherwise fails to assist the COMPANY or any subsidiary or affiliate in any way, including, without limitation, in connection with any such action, suit, or proceeding by providing information and meeting and consulting with members of management of, other representatives of, or counsel to, the COMPANY or such subsidiary or affiliate, as reasonably requested.
          (C) Despite the conditions set forth in this Section 5, a PARTICIPANT is not hereby prohibited from engaging in any activity, including but not limited to competition with the COMPANY and its subsidiaries and affiliates. Rather, the non-occurrence of the FORFEITURE EVENTS set forth in Section 5(B) is a condition to the PARTICIPANT's right to realize and retain value from the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS, and the consequence under the PLAN and this AGREEMENT if the PARTICIPANT engages in an activity giving rise to any such FORFEITURE EVENTS are the forfeitures specified therein and herein. The COMPANY and PARTICIPANT shall not be precluded by this provision or otherwise from entering into other agreements concerning the subject matter of Sections 5(A) and 5(B).
          (D) The COMMITTEE may, in its discretion, waive in whole or in part the COMPANY's right to forfeiture under this Section 5, but no such waiver shall be effective unless evidenced by a writing signed by a duly authorized officer of the COMPANY.
          (E) This Section 5(E) shall apply only if the PARTICIPANT was granted the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS under this AGREEMENT pursuant to the achievement of a performance goal under Section 7(c) of the PLAN. If the Committee determines that the earlier determination as to the achievement of the performance goal was based on incorrect data and that in fact the performance goal had not been achieved or had been achieved to a lesser extent than originally determined and a number of the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS would not have been granted, given the correct data, then (i) the aggregate number of RESTRICTED STOCK
 
UNITS set forth in Section 1 above shall be reduced by such number of RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS that would not have been granted (such RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS, the "EXCESS RSUs"), (ii) any EXCESS RSUs that have not yet vested in accordance with the terms of this AGREEMENT shall be forfeited and (iii) any COMMON SHARES received upon settlement of vested EXCESS RSUs (or if such COMMON SHARES were disposed of the cash equivalent) shall be returned to the COMPANY as provided by the COMMITTEE.
     6. . All terms and conditions of the PLAN applicable to the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS which are not set forth in this AGREEMENT shall be deemed incorporated herein by reference. In the event that any term or condition of this AGREEMENT is inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the PLAN, the PLAN shall be deemed controlling. The PARTICIPANT acknowledges receipt of a copy of the PLAN. The PARTICIPANT also acknowledges that all decisions, determinations and interpretations of the COMMITTEE in respect of the PLAN, this AGREEMENT and the RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS shall be final, conclusive and binding on the PARTICIPANT, all other persons interested in the PLAN and stockholders.
PLAN as Controlling; PARTICIPANT Acknowledgments
     7. . To the extent not preempted by federal law, this AGREEMENT shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
     8. . All rights and remedies of the COMPANY and of the PARTICIPANT enumerated in this AGREEMENT shall be cumulative and, except as expressly provided otherwise in this AGREEMENT, none shall exclude any other rights or remedies allowed by law or in equity, and each of said rights or remedies may be exercised and enforced concurrently.
Rights and Remedies Cumulative
     9. . The captions contained in this AGREEMENT are included only for convenience of reference and do not define, limit, explain or modify this AGREEMENT or its interpretation, construction or meaning and are in no way to be construed as a part of this AGREEMENT.
Captions
     10. . If any provision of this AGREEMENT or the application of any provision hereof to any person or any circumstance shall be determined to be invalid or unenforceable, then such determination shall not affect any other provision of this AGREEMENT or the application of said provision to any other person or circumstance, all of which other provisions shall remain in full force and effect, and it is the intention of each party to this AGREEMENT that if any provision of this AGREEMENT is susceptible of two or more constructions, one of which would render the provision enforceable and the other or others of which would render the provision unenforceable, then the provision shall have the meaning which renders it enforceable.
Severability
     11. . When used in this AGREEMENT, the number and gender of each pronoun shall be construed to be such number and gender as the context, circumstances or its antecedent may required.
Number and Gender
 
     12. . This AGREEMENT, including the PLAN incorporated herein by reference, constitutes the entire agreement between the COMPANY and the PARTICIPANT in respect of the subject matter of this AGREEMENT, and this AGREEMENT supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements between the parties hereto in connection with the subject matter of this AGREEMENT. No officer, employee or other servant or agent of the COMPANY, and no servant or agent of the PARTICIPANT, is authorized to make any representation, warranty or other promise not contained in this AGREEMENT. Other than as set forth in Section 11(e) of the Plan, no change, termination or attempted waiver of any of the provisions of this AGREEMENT shall be binding upon either party hereto unless contained in a writing signed by the party to be charged.
Entire Agreement
     13. . The obligations of the COMPANY under this AGREEMENT shall be binding upon any successor corporation or organization resulting from the merger, consolidation or other reorganization of the COMPANY, or upon any successor corporation or organization succeeding to substantially all of the assets and businesses of the COMPANY.
Successors and Assigns of the COMPANY
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the COMPANY has caused this AGREEMENT to be executed by its duly authorized officer, and the PARTICIPANT has executed this AGREEMENT, in each case effective as of the GRANT DATE.

 
Exhibit 14
OVERVIEW
Success in personal or business relationships requires conduct dictated by four basic principles: honesty, integrity, intellect and compassion. While deviation from these principles sometimes appears to produce benefits, these benefits are generally short lived and lead to long term damaging results.
It is the policy of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. ("A&F") and its operating subsidiaries (the "Company") to adhere to the highest standards of integrity and to apply these standards fairly and consistently in every area of the business throughout the world. Every associate, including every officer and director (collectively "associates"), shares an obligation to protect and strengthen the reputation of the business in all relationships with customers, associates, suppliers, competitors, investors, and governmental agencies.
Each associate is commissioned by the Company to diligently perform assigned processes and work. These duties will involve business relationships with individuals both inside and outside the Company, and with other companies and organizations. In performing their duties, associates must act in accordance with the law, fully considering the Company's rights, interests and ethical responsibilities. It is prudent for each associate to protect his or her own good reputation and also that of the Company, and to avoid transactions or situations in which his or her own interests conflict, or could be construed to conflict, with those of the Company.
It is not possible to cover all situations to which this Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code") applies. Consequently, all associates may from time to time encounter situations that require interpretation, and they should not proceed with any questionable activities until proper clarification is received. Any questions regarding the interpretation of laws, rules or regulations as they apply to the operations of the Company should be referred to the Vice President, Human Resources, the Vice President, Finance, the Chief Financial Officer, the Director of Internal Audit, the General Counsel or the Chief Operating Officer of A&F for resolution.
This Code has been adopted by the Board of Directors of A&F to demonstrate to the public and A&F's shareholders the importance that management and the Board of Directions place on ethical conduct. The Code outlines certain specific areas where associates should exercise good judgment and, in some cases, caution as they discharge their decision-making responsibilities as they relate to Company affairs.
COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS
Every associate, while acting on behalf of the Company, will comply with all applicable governmental laws, rules and regulations. Company transactions that are unusual in nature may require review by outside auditors or counsel before proceeding.
 
Officers of the Company will diligently review all foreign, federal, state or local laws, rules, regulations or administrative procedures that affect the operation of the business. Compliance will be monitored and detected deviations will be promptly corrected.
Merchandise offered for sale by the Company will comply with all known safety standards. This will not only meet legal requirements but also serve to promote brand quality. It is expected that all advertising to the public regarding merchandise quality or pricing will be true and not in anyway intentionally misleading or deceptive.
Associates responsible for purchasing or producing merchandise will be required to understand and ensure compliance with applicable laws, rules, regulations and policies as well as the Company's guidelines for vendor standards and relationships.
It is expected that the Company and all associates will comply with all computer software copyright laws. The use of computer software on PC's or other computers by associates in any manner not specifically authorized by the Company's guidelines is prohibited.
The Company will adhere to its employment policies of non-discrimination as it relates to race, color, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation or handicap and will ensure compliance with all legal and other regulations governing employment. Management will not tolerate discrimination of any kind among associates, including sexual or racial harassment.
The Company will fully cooperate with law enforcement authorities to aid in the investigation and appropriate prosecution of any associated individual(s) involved in alleged illegal activity.
PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENTAL OFFICIALS
The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act prohibits giving anything of value, directly or indirectly, to foreign governmental officials or foreign political candidates in order to obtain or retain business. The promise, offer or delivery to an official or employee of the U.S. government of a gift, favor or other gratuity is likewise prohibited. State and local governments may have similar rules.
Associates who may be affected by these laws, rules and regulations must understand when their actions may violate them and place the Company, as well as themselves, in jeopardy.
No gift or payment of any questionable, improper, or illegal nature will be allowed by or on behalf of the Company, directly or indirectly, regardless of motive, to or for the benefit of any governmental agency, officials, or their families or associates. Governmental officials include elected or appointed officials of any foreign or United States federal, state, county, municipal or other political subdivision, and agencies thereof.
Social amenities, reasonable entertainment, and other courtesies within Company policy may be extended to governmental officials only to the extent customary and proper in the jurisdiction in which offered. Expensive gifts or lavish entertainment will not be offered or furnished to any governmental official.
 
POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
No associate shall, on the Company's behalf or on Company time or premises, solicit contributions for a political party, organization or committee or any candidate for public office, except in connection with a solicitation on behalf of any political action committee established by the Company, or other solicitation approved by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer of A&F. No associate may use coercion of any kind in connection with any permissible solicitation. No associate may use Company funds or property in support of any political party, organization or committee, or any candidate for public office unless it is permitted by law and approved by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer.
ACCOUNTING RECORDS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
All transactions directly or indirectly affecting the Company's financial statements and public disclosures will be properly and accurately recorded in the General Ledger and appropriately documented. No Company funds or assets that are not disclosed or recorded will be established or maintained, directly or indirectly, for any purpose. All recorded entries will conform to Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, applicable legal requirements and the Company's internal controls. False or misleading records, information or accounting entries, as to either purpose or amount, are prohibited.
It is critical that the reports and documents A&F files with or submits to the Securities and Exchange Commission and other public communications made by the Company be complete, fair, accurate, timely and understandable in all material respects.
Company financial executives and associates directly responsible for specific accounting records will cooperate fully with outside public auditors retained to verify the accuracy and reliability of financial statements and reports.
Periodically, and when relevant, Company financial executives, internal auditors and its independent auditors will confirm to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of A&F that they are not aware of any material misstatements or omissions in accounting records or documents, or have any concerns about the disclosure under the "management's discussion and analysis" section of a report.
Additionally, the Company's internal and independent auditors will consult with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of A&F on a regular basis to report any identified weaknesses or concerns with respect to internal controls and measures taken to correct or remedy such weaknesses or concerns.
The Company's documented Accounting and Operating Policies will be made available to all appropriate associates for constant reference when needed. These Policies will be maintained and revised in accordance with related changes in legal or accounting regulations and internal control or operating practices.
Senior Financial Officers are also subject to the Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, See Appendix: Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers.
 
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES
A conflict of interest can arise when an associate takes actions or has interests that may make it difficult to perform his or her work for the Company objectively and effectively. Conflicts of interests also arise when an associate, or members of his or her immediate family, receive improper personal benefits as a result of his or her position in the Company, whether received from the Company or a third party.
If any associate receives a gift or anything else of meaningful value from a supplier or potential supplier, it should be immediately returned. If it is not practical to return the item, the donor should be informed of the Company policy and the gift will be turned over to the Company. If any associate has a question regarding the appropriateness of a gift, they should contact A&F's Vice President, Human Resources, Vice President, Finance, Chief Financial Officer, Director of Internal Audit, General Counsel or Chief Operating Officer for guidance.
A conflict of interest may also arise if an associate has an interest in a transaction to which the Company is a party, competes with the Company or takes advantage of an opportunity that belongs to the Company. Associates are prohibited from taking for themselves opportunities that properly belong to the Company or are discovered through the use of the Company's property, information or position; using the Company's property, information or position for personal gain; or competing with the Company.
The Company's property also includes confidential information as well as certain corporate opportunities which may be disclosed to the Company's associates while carrying out their duties for the Company. The Company strives to provide information to associates and the public which is accurate, complete, relevant, timely and understandable. No associate of the Company should disclose any such confidential information except when disclosure is authorized or legally mandated, or utilize such confidential information or corporate opportunity for his or her own personal gain. Each associate has a duty to advance the best interests of the Company and, except with the prior approval of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and/or Board of Directors of A&F, to refrain from engaging in any conduct which may compete with the Company or interfere with the Company's pursuit of its business opportunities.
Theft, carelessness and waste of the Company's assets have a direct impact on the Company's profitability and cannot be tolerated. Associates are entrusted with the use of Company assets and resources for legitimate business purposes. Those individuals authorized to use funds of the Company are responsible for assuring the Company receives proper value in return. The use of the Company's funds for personal, improper or illegal purposes is strictly prohibited and the Company will take appropriate action, including notifying the appropriate civil authorities, if this principle is violated and in any such case, disciplinary action will be taken. Further, the use of any assets of the Company in a manner that is offensive, disruptive or destructive is prohibited.
At management's discretion, selected associates will be required to sign a confidentiality agreement, either when they begin employment or when they are transferred to a position allowing access to confidential or trade secret information.
 
An officer or other employee of the Company may not provide managerial or consulting services or serve on the board of directors (or similar body) of any concern that competes or has business relations with the Company without prior approval from the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and/or Board of Directors (or if appropriate or required under the applicable policies of the Company, the Nominating and Board Governance Committee of the Board of Directors) of A&F.
It may not always be clear when a situation results in a conflict of interest. All questionable situations should be appropriately reported and a determination made. When an associate faces a potential conflict of interest, all information regarding the issue should be reported to the Company for review. If a potential conflict of interest arises concerning an officer or director of the Company, all information regarding the issue should be reported to A&F's General Counsel for review and, if appropriate or required under the applicable policies of the Company, submission to the Nominating and Board Governance Committee of the Board of Directors of A&F for reviews and the taking of such course of action as the Nominating and Board Governance Committee deems appropriate. The affected individual will be given counsel to properly resolve the potential conflict of interest.
CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT AND ETHICS COMPLIANCE
Internal auditors, as part of our regular procedures, will assess compliance with this Code. Any matters discovered by them that appear to violate this Code will be investigated and serious violations reported to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of A&F and the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer.
The Company's outside independent auditors will report in writing to the internal auditors and the Vice President, Finance any matter discovered during their examination of the Company's financial statements that appear to violate this Code.
All management associates will be required at least annually to affirm, to the best of their knowledge, that they have complied with this Code, have no knowledge of any violation of this Code not previously reported and have not been requested to engage in any activity in violation of this Code. Associates may also be required to submit detailed information on any related business interest in which they or their immediate family are involved.
The failure of any associate of the Company to comply with this Code will result in disciplinary action which, depending on the seriousness of the matter, may include reprimand, probation, suspension, demotion or dismissal, and possible civil or criminal action. Disciplinary measures will apply to supervisors and senior executives who condone questionable, improper, or illegal conduct by those associates reporting to them or who fail to take appropriate corrective action when such matters are brought to their attention, or who allow unethical or illegal conduct to occur because of their inattention to supervisory responsibilities.
REPORTING ILLEGAL/UNETHICAL BEHAVIOR
Any associate who knows or has reasonable cause to suspect another associate of any conflicts of interest or other violations of this Code is expected to inform his or her supervisor or to report his or her suspicions in accordance with the Company's Whistleblower Policy to facilitate
 
disclosures, encourage proper individual conduct and alert management and the Audit Committee to potential issues before encountering serious consequences. Any associate who becomes aware of any violation of this Code should follow the procedures for reporting the violation contained in the Whistleblower Policy. A copy of the Company's Whistleblower Policy can be found on the "Corporate Governance" page of the Company's Web site located at www.abercrombie.com.
CONFIDENTIALITY
To ensure all associates will not feel intimidated or uncomfortable reporting possible Code violations, the Company has engaged an outside third party to receive and log associates' calls. The manner in which the caller may contact this outside third party is described in the "Corporate Governance" page of the Company's Web site located at www.abercrombie.com. That third party will forward related information to Human Resources for investigation. Calls reporting possible store theft will be immediately reported to Store Security for follow up. Associates will be allowed anonymity in all instances. Alleged financial or accounting infringements will be investigated by internal auditors, and results reported to responsible financial executives or the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of A&F when applicable. Records will be maintained for each incident showing the results of investigation and any disciplinary action taken. Any violation considered material to financial results will be reported to Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of A&F and any other required disclosures made.
The Company will not permit retaliation of any kind by or on behalf of the Company and its associates against good faith reports or complaints of violations of this Code or other illegal conduct.
INSIDER TRADING
The Company has adopted a Policy Statement Regarding Trading in Company Securities and Compliance with Federal Securities Laws, dated February 13, 2006. All trading in securities by associates must be conducted in accordance with this Policy Statement, a copy of which shall be made available to each associate.
CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS; FAIR DEALING
Business relationships with customers and suppliers of goods and services will emphasize a continuing business purpose of mutual benefit. The Company will discharge its obligations to its customers and suppliers in a manner which reflects a strong sensitivity and concern for social responsibility and ethical dealings, and will maintain its solid reputation for honesty and fairness in all transactions. Every associate shares an obligation to protect and strengthen the Company's good reputation in all relationships with customers and suppliers. Each associate will endeavor to deal fairly with the Company's customers, competitors, suppliers and other associates. No one should take unfair advantage of anyone through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts or any other unfair dealing practice.
 
Exhibit 14
Purpose
      It is the Company's intention to provide all stockholders with the highest degree of confidence that its financial control systems are implemented and maintained by Senior Financial Officers who exhibit the highest degree of integrity and are free from actual or apparent conflicts of interest. Therefore, the Company has adopted a specific Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers ("Financial Code of Ethics"), which is in addition to this Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
Standard of Conduct
      This Financial Code of Ethics applies to all Senior Financial Officers of the Company. The term "Senior Financial Officer" shall mean the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controllers, Treasurer, all Vice Presidents in the Finance Department and other designated financial Associates. Under this policy, the Company's Senior Financial Officers are expected to conduct the financial, accounting, reporting, and auditing activities of the Company in compliance with all laws and regulations and in accordance with the highest ethical standards. Each Senior Financial Officer is also responsible to do the following:
 
The Financial Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers is not limited to the actions described above, nor is it intended to address or anticipate all situations involving Senior Financial Officers with respect to the reliability and accuracy of Company books, records, and accounts, as well as the integrity of all financial disclosures and financial dealings of the Company.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (NYSE: ANF) today reported unaudited results which reflected record second quarter net income of $81.3 million and net income per diluted share of $0.88 for the thirteen weeks ended August 4, 2007, a 24% increase over net income of $65.7 million and a 22% increase over $0.72 per diluted share for the thirteen weeks ended July 29, 2006.
New Albany, Ohio, August 22, 2007:
Second Quarter Developments
 
Mike Jeffries, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Abercrombie & Fitch Co., said:
"I am extremely pleased with the record financial results we posted this quarter. Our success can be attributed largely to the fact that we have created a consistent business that is able to generate strong results. Our company is uniquely positioned, with each brand maintaining only the highest standards and supported by defined and proven processes that are continuously audited. The drive for constant improvement in standard, process and audit will help us to maintain our leadership position over the long term."
Second Quarter Financial Results
Net sales for the thirteen weeks ended August 4, 2007 increased 22% to $804.5 million from $658.7 million for the thirteen weeks ended July 29, 2006. Total Company direct-to-consumer net sales increased 66% to $45.6 million for the thirteen-week period ended August 4, 2007, compared to the thirteen-week period ended July 29, 2006. Total Company comparable store sales decreased 2% for the thirteen weeks ended August 4, 2007, compared to the thirteen weeks ended August 5, 2006.
The gross profit rate for the quarter was 68.8%, down 30 basis points compared to last year. The decrease in gross profit rate was primarily due to a higher markdown rate, partially offset by higher initial markup.
Stores and Distribution expense, as a percentage of sales, increased 50 basis points from 41.1% to 41.6%. The increase in rate versus last year is primarily attributed to increases in direct-to-consumer and store-related payroll and other controllable expenses.
Marketing, General and Administrative expense, as a percentage of sales, decreased 80 basis points from 13.0% to 12.2%. The reduction in rate versus last year resulted primarily from a reduction in legal, travel, and marketing expenses, partially offset by increased home office payroll.
Operating income for the second quarter increased 21% to $124.1 million, compared to $102.4 million last year.
Net income for the quarter increased 24% to $81.3 million, compared to $65.7 million last year.
Net income per diluted share increased 22% to $0.88, compared to $0.72 for the second quarter of fiscal 2006.
2007 Outlook
The Company expects net income per diluted share for the second half of fiscal 2007 to be in the range of $3.63 to $3.67. Based upon this guidance, the Company now expects full year fiscal 2007 net income per diluted share to be in the range of $5.16 to $5.20.
The low-end of the guidance reflects a flat comparable store sales scenario for the second half of fiscal 2007. Fourth Quarter fiscal 2006 results included incremental net income per diluted share of $0.06 resulting from an extra selling week in the fiscal 2006 retail calendar and $0.07 resulting from favorable settlements of tax audits.
 
The Company plans total capital expenditures for fiscal 2007 to be between $395 million and $405 million with approximately $220 million of this amount allocated to new store construction and store remodels. Approximately $60 million is allocated to "refresh" improvements and other brand enhancing investments planned for existing stores with the balance related to home office, information technology, and direct-to-consumer infrastructure investments.
For fiscal 2007, the Company expects to increase gross square-footage by approximately 10%, primarily through the addition of six new Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 25 new abercrombie stores, 56 new Hollister Co. stores, seven new RUEHL stores, and four stores of the Company's new concept.
Other Developments
On August 7, 2007, the Company announced that it plans to open a Tokyo flagship in late 2009. This will be the Company's first flagship in Asia and will be centrally located in Tokyo's Ginza district, one of the most prominent shopping destinations in the world.
On July 13, 2007, the Company announced that it plans to expand its retail presence throughout Europe. The Company is in the process of securing locations in Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Denmark and Sweden and plans to identify additional key locations in the United Kingdom.
The Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.175 per share on the Class A Common Stock of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. payable on September 25, 2007 to shareholders of record at the close of business on September 4, 2007.
The Company operates a total of 362 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 186 abercrombie stores, 419 Hollister Co. stores and 17 RUEHL stores. The Company operates three Abercrombie & Fitch stores and three Hollister Co. stores in Canada, and one Abercrombie & Fitch store in London, England. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
Today at 4:30 PM, Eastern Time, the Company will conduct a conference call. Management will discuss the Company's performance, its plans for the future and will accept questions from participants. To listen to the live conference call, dial (800) 811-0667 or internationally at (913) 981-4901. To listen via the internet, go to www.abercrombie.com, select the Investors page and scroll through the Calendar of Events. Replays of the call will be available shortly after its completion. The audio replay can be accessed for two weeks following the reporting date by calling (888) 203-1112 or internationally at (719) 457-0820 followed by the conference ID number 3466308; or for 12 months by visiting the Company's website at www.abercrombie.com.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2007, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2007 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; ability to hire, train and retain associates; and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
Q4 2006 Results are based on 14-week quarter
 
Q4 2006 Results are based on 14-week quarter
 
Q4 2006 Results are based on 14-week quarter
 
Q4 2006 Results are based on 14-week quarter
 
Q4 2006 Results are based on 14-week quarter

 
Exhibit 99.3
Final Transcript
Conference Call Transcript
ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
Event Date/Time: Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS
Tom Lennox
Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  IR, Corporate Communications
Mike Kramer
Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Mike Nuzzo
Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
CONFERENCE CALL PARTICIPANTS
Liz Dunn
Thomas Weisel Partners  Analyst
Lauren Levitan
Cowen & Co  Analyst
Jeff Klinefelter
Piper Jaffray  Analyst
Brian Tunick
JPMorgan  Analyst
Rob Wilson
Tiburon Research  Analyst
Randy Konik
Bear Stearns  Analyst
Adrienne Tennant
Friedman Billings Ramsey  Analyst
Mike Mager
Goldman Sachs  Analyst
John Morris
Wachovia  Analyst
Kimberly Greenberger
Citigroup  Analyst
Lorraine Maikis
Merrill Lynch  Analyst
Christine Chen
Needham & Company  Analyst
Barbara Wyckoff
Buckingham Research Group  Analyst
Paul Lejuez
Credit Suisse  Analyst
Robin Murchison
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey  Analyst
Janet Kloppenburg
JJK Research  Analyst
Josh Schwartz
Flatbush Watermill  Analyst
PRESENTATION
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
 
Operator
Good day, and welcome to the Abercrombie & Fitch second quarter earnings results conference call. Today's conference is being recorded. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). We will open the call to your questions at the end of the presentation. We ask that you limit yourself to one question during the question and answer session. At this time, I would like to turn the conference over to Mr. Tom Lennox. Please go ahead.
 
Tom Lennox
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  IR, Corporate Communications
Good afternoon and welcome to our second quarter conference call. After the the market closed, we publicly released a quarterly sales and earnings release, balance sheet, income statement and updated financial history. If you haven't seen these materials, they are available on our website. This call is being taped and can be replayed by dialing 888-203-1112. You will need to reference the conference ID number 5786431. You may also access the replay through the internet at www.abercrombie.com. With me today are Mike Kramer, Chief Financial Officer, Mike Nuzzo, Vice President of Finance, and Brian Logan, the Company's controller.
Today's earnings call will be limited to one hour. After our prepared comments, we will be available to take your questions for as long as time permits. Please limit yourself to one question so that we can speak with as many callers as possible. Before we begin, I remind that you any forward-looking statements we may make today are subject to the Safe Harbor statement found in our SEC filings. Now to Mike Kramer.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Good afternoon. We're pleased to once again post record financial results. We delivered strong sales and earnings growth while enhancing our brand standards. We made excellent progress operationally by improving inventory levels, completing a major component of the refresh program for Abercrombie & Fitch mall-based stores, and by developing the international rollout of the Abercrombie & Fitch brand.
This quarter's financial and operational results are strong, but it is the consistency of our business that underscores the high quality of our earnings. We have developed an organizational structure that thrives on and benefits from the sharing of information. We look at the business as a whole with one branding and operational philosophy. While our brands share attributes, each characteristic manifests itself uniquely in each brand. From the merchandising standpoint, this approach helps to us better translate trend, thus driving higher merchandising margins.
We also apply this philosophy to other major areas of the company. For instance, to become more skilled and efficient, we pull expertise and establish standards by discipline, and then apply these standards throughout the organization. Each standard is supported by a process that has been developed over time and is audited consistently. For example, brand standards are established at the home office by our merchant team who work in conjunction with areas including design and sourcing, processing are in place to ensure criteria are met, including high levels of quality, proper fabric, trim, and dye constraints and consistency of fit to name a few.
Each member of the team is trained and responsible for monitoring the process throughout production until received at the distribution center where it is inspected by quality assurance as a finished good before transported to the stores. Similar standards are applied to every area of the business. As a company, improving even the highest standard is what distinguishes our approach from the competition, and we'll be critical to driving profitable growth as the business expands significantly over the next several years. This mindset has enabled us to operate at high productivity levels compared to other retailers, which supports high margins both domestically and internationally going forward.
In fact, we are pleased to have the opportunity to leverage our operational strategy by growing the business. In addition, to rollout of our international expansion, our fifth brand is in development phase set to be introduced by the end of fiscal 2007. Although I would not regard the Abercrombie & Fitch brand as mature, we are starting to reach domestic capacity of 400 stores. Regardless, five of our most recently launched A&F stores including the one on Fifth Avenue and those in Canada and London are among the most productive and profitable stores in our fleet. Each of these stores continues to generate substantial volume and four-wall profit. Compared to U.S. mall stores, this larger and more productive format is somewhat of a new model to us.
Once we adjusted to the new demands of running a high-volume store we were able to standardize our approach, resulting in a valuable and profitable model. Based on this success as well as on our receipts from our web business, we are now ready to expand throughout Europe and Japan. We are aggressively looking for real estate in Italy, France, Germany, Spain, Denmark, and Sweden, with plans to identify additional key locations in the United Kingdom. As you may have seen, we recently secured space in the Ginza district of Tokyo. We are focusing our international rollout in heavily trafficked cities to enable us to generate strong returns with fewer stores.
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
We are also very excited because we believe the flagship format provides us with an opportunity to generate strong returns on invested capital with Hollister as well. We are currently in the design phase with plans to open a Hollister flagship domestically. International rollout will follow. We have secured excellent locations for RUEHL openings this year at Natick Mall, Annapolis, and Washington Square in Oregon. We are planning to open two kids stores in Toronto in 2008.
Now I would like to update you on our IT initiatives, all of which remain on track. In the second quarter we completed rollout of the store replenishment system. This system not only provides significant process efficiencies for store associates, but the handheld scanner minimizes in-store out of stocks. This allows for more immediate and accurate merchandising restocking. We recently implemented our SKU level planning solution which supports merchandise planning at a more granular level. By year end, we plan to put into operation a new business intelligence system, which will consolidate all company data and reporting on to one platform, allowing more comprehensive analysis by providing as we call it, one version of the truth.
We plan to be online with the visual merchandising system by mid-year 2008 as well. This system automates the visual floor set process by creating personalized documentation for all stores that are tied to a master floor set. This process ensures high floor set integrity, managed and approved centrally, while being able to provide the stores with their adapted layout of the floor set. Finally, the initial phase of the retail merchandising system is planned to go live in early 2008. With the last phase implemented over the following year. This system serves as a foundation of our application portfolio with initial focus on compiling all foundational data to improve purchase order management and the integrity of associated data.
There is no doubt that we have huge opportunities ahead of us to generate strong returns on invested capital. In addition to our plans for domestic and international growth, we are making operational improvements. We are becoming more efficient and therefore able to work smarter. We are applying high standards across the business, resulting in an organization that performs consistently well from both financial results and brand standards perspectives. This approach reflects our goal to share information based on experience to leverage the major areas of our company. Not only does this lead to increased efficiencies, but running several businesses under one brand philosophy generates both diversification and consistency of results, which we believe is truly what differentiates our company.
Going forward, we will continue to raise the bar by improving our standards and positioning the Company for its continued leadership position. Now Mike Nuzzo will discuss the financial results.
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
Thanks, Mike. Good afternoon.
Second quarter net sales for the 13 weeks ended August 4, 2007, increased 22% to $804.5 million from $658.7 million for the 13 weeks ended July 29, 2006. Second quarter direct to consumer net sales increased 66% to $45.6 million for the 13-week period ending August 4, 2007, compared to the 13-week period ending July 29, 2006. Total company comparable store sales declined 2% for the 13 weeks ended August 4, 2007, compared to the 13 weeks ended August 5, 2006. Second quarter gross profit rate was 68.8%, down 30 basis points compared to last year. The decrease in rate was due to a higher markdown rate partially offset by improved initial markup versus last year. This gross margin result is consistent with a strong fashion tops business which contributes to both a higher overall IMU and a higher overall markdown level. We ended the second quarter with inventories down 12% per square foot at cost versus last year. This result is attributed to lower levels of basic inventory and having lower spring merchandise carry over on a square foot basis versus last year.
Going forward, third quarter inventory per square foot at cost relative to last year is expected to decrease at an equal or slightly greater level than in Q2. This expected result should also reflect a continued reduction in basic inventory levels. As we implement our supply chain technology solutions in merchandise planning and allocation, we seek to optimized the relationship between inventory levels and our sales expectations. Stores and distribution expense for the quarter as a percentage of sales increased 50 basis points to 41.6% versus 41.1% last year. The increase in rate is attributed to increased direct to consumer expenses resulting from robust e-com sales growth and increased store related expenses including supplies and maintenance. We also continued to tightly manage store payroll hours to match sales trends, while absorbing the added expense of minimum wage and management salary increases. Our distribution center UPH increased 14% in the quarter, reflecting greater efficiencies in the operation of our second DC.
For the second quarter, marketing, general, and administrative expenses decreased 80 basis points as a percentage of sales from 13.0% to 12.2%. The reduction in rate versus last year resulted primarily from a decline in legal, travel, sample, and in-store marketing expenses, which were
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
partially offset by increased home office payroll as a percentage of sales. Incorporating the resource demands of product development and new concept rollout efforts, we expect MG&A expense of around $105 million per quarter for fall 2007. For the second quarter, operating income increased 21% to $124.1 million compared to $102.4 million last year. The effective tax rate for the second quarter was 36.6% compared to 37.5% for the 2006 comparable period. The reduction in rate versus the prior period primarily reflects the favorable settlement of a state tax audit.
Net income for the second quarter increased 24% to $81.3 million versus $65.7 million last year. Second quarter net income per diluted share increased 22% to $0.88 versus $0.72 during the same period in 2006. In fiscal 2007, square footage is expected to grow by approximately 10%, slightly lower than the 11 to 12% previously estimated. The change is primarily the result of the shift of Hollister and ANF new store openings originally scheduled in January to the beginning of February 2008. We also look forward to introducing our fifth concept with the opening of four stores in January.
For fiscal 2007, our planned capital expenditures will be between $395 million, and $405 million with approximately $220 million of this amount allocated to new store construction and store remodels. Approximately $60 million is allocated to allocated refresh improvements and other brand enhancing investments planned for existing stores, with the balance related to home office, information technology, and direct to consumer infrastructure investments. For the second half of fiscal 2007, net income per diluted share is expected to be in the range of $3.63 to $3.67. Based upon this guidance, full year fiscal 2007 net income per diluted share is expected to be in the range of $5.16 to $5.20. The low end of this guidance reflects a flat comparable store sale scenario for the second half of fiscal 2007.
Please note fourth quarter fiscal 2006 results included incremental net income per diluted share of $0.06, resulting from an extra selling week in the fiscal 2006 retail calendar, and $0.07 resulting from the favorable settlement of tax audits. As Mike Kramer discussed, we're excited about the ongoing high levels of sales productivity, international growth prospects, new concept development, internal operating improvements, and disciplined financial management of the business. The combination of all of these factors provides us with a substantial ongoing advantage in delivering consistent earnings growth regardless of the retail environment. Now I would like it turn it back over to Mike Kramer before we take questions. Thank you.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Thanks, Mike. As you may have noticed, Mike Jeffries is not participating on the call and will not participate in the foreseeable future. As our company continues to grow, the demands on Mike Jeffries, our CEO, become more and more increasing. With the two growth initiatives at EF, Concept 5 and our international expansion, we believe Mike's time is better searched focusing on those areas. This does not mean you won't be hearing from Mike Jeffries. In the future as analysts, investors, potential investors, come on campus to see our brands, see our culture, at that time allowing, depending on his schedule as his schedule allows, we will have one one time and/or group on one time. Thanks. Now to questions.
QUESTION AND ANSWER
 
Operator
(OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, please limit yourself to one question. We'll take our first one from Liz Dunn with Thomas Weisel.
 
Liz Dunn
- Thomas Weisel Partners  Analyst
Good afternoon. Congratulations on a great quarter.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Thanks, Liz.
 
Liz Dunn
- Thomas Weisel Partners  Analyst
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
You took down store growth for every concept by my count about 23 stores or about 2 points out of your growth. I am wondering if, from the prepared comments, it appears that you're favoring quality over quantity in terms of where you're opening real estate. I guess a two-part question. First. How much did this reduction in store count take out of your internal models for the year, and, second related question, I think or second related question is I think that some in the investment community believe that there are concerns about real estate availability. Could you just address that because it sounds like that's not what you're saying here? Thanks.
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
Liz, this is Mike Nuzzo. I can start on that answer. First of all, there is no concerns about real estate availability for us for the current plans for the year. What I would really like to focus on is that change in the square footage from 11 to 12% to 10% growth. Really the  as I mentioned in the script, that is caused by the focus on having those January stores open in the most perfect condition, both from an operations standpoint and from a merchandise standpoint. The second issue is obviously with the introduction of our fifth concept, we're focusing a lot of resource attention on those store openings, so we felt that it was prudent to move those openings which really represent about 10 stores, from the January time frame into the beginning of February. It does not materially affect our sales projections at all, and does not affect our guidance. Mike, do you want to add to that?
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Yes. I agree with your quality over quantity comment. Let me talk a little bit about real estate availability. There is absolutely no concern with regards to real estate availability both on the international standpoint as well as the domestic standpoint. In fact, the majority of our 2008 anticipated store openings are already locked and loaded. Again, this movement is just exactly as Mike Nuzzo laid it out. We're very excited about our real estate opportunities, both on the domestic and international front.
 
Operator
Thank you. We'll go next to Lauren Levitan with Cowen & Co.
 
Lauren Levitan
- Cowen & Co  Analyst
Thanks. Good afternoon. Mike, you spent a lot of time talking about how some of the initiatives would contribute to positive returns on invested capital. I am curious if you would be willing to share any targets you might have for ROIC, and then, related to that, with the lower inventory levels, even the past giving us a sense of weeks of supply targets that you run the business off of, should we assume that the lower basic inventories will lead to different weeks of supply targets, and then lastly, related to metrics, would you ever consider eliminating the reporting of same-store sales on a monthly basis? Thanks.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
With regards to  let me see if I can catch all of that, it was a pretty long question, Lauren, In terms of our initiatives, no, I'm not going to talk about a specific return on investment with regards to these. You're starting to see some of the return, you will continue to see the return, we monitor that very closely on a pre and post basis. In terms of inventory optimization, as we've said, Mike and I have talked over the six to nine months in terms of a lot of initiatives related to our supply chain. With that comes more of an optimization on inventory. So we're very excited about the movement in which we're focused on in that arena. In terms of same-store sales, as of this point in time, we're continuing to talk about same-store sales on a monthly basis. We will let you know as we change our mind.
 
Operator
Thank you. We'll go next to Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
 
Jeff Klinefelter
- Piper Jaffray  Analyst
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
Hey, guys, just a couple quick questions. One on the international markets. Mike, could you talk a little bit more about the lead time for opening these stores? We know you have an aggressive plan now in front of you, but in terms of thinking about timing and how these sequence in over the next few years, what is a lead time for a store opening there versus in this market? Is it going to continue to be only flagships or is there an opportunity to do a little more hub-and-spoke in some of these major markets, and then lastly would be on Hollister, how are you researching international demand or brand kind of relevance on the Hollister brand?
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
In terms of the lead time internationally, yes, the lead time with regards to our store development internationally will exceed that here domestically. Largely due to the state of the real estate, the brick and mortar available there, not to mention the fact that with regards to flagships and the uniqueness with regards to the flagships, more of Michael Jeffries' time is involved. In terms of specific timing, I don't really want to go into that. I will leave it at that in terms of it is a longer lead time. However, I will tell you that I am surprised that there are some lead times that are pretty consistent with domestic.
Keep in mind also that Europe is embracing mall-based retailing, and that's going to increase, so we don't see any difference in terms of lead time with regards to that. In terms of Abercrombie & Fitch brand, we've been very clear about our initiative in terms of the international aspect being more what I call high profile, not necessarily flagship in size but high profile meaning very high profile locations, street locations, not mall-based. In terms of the Hollister brand, we will look at that in terms of a hub-and-spoke mentality. We're very excited about the Hollister brand. I will let Mike speak to Hollister as well.
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
Jeff, it is pretty similar to the way we approached Abercrombie & Fitch international expansion, looking at DTC trends, looking at our performance in Canada, obviously feedback from our brand protection folks, but also we have a number of what we call tourist stores that now, those areas have Hollister stores as well, and we get a read from those locations about the potential business for Hollister internationally, so we're obviously very excited about that on par with Abercrombie & Fitch expansion.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Interestingly enough, the international locations that we have put in Abercrombie & Fitch brick and mortar, we've seen sizable increases on the Hollister side of direct to consumer as well compared to the rest of the community.
 
Operator
We'll go next to Brian Tunick with JPMorgan.
 
Brian Tunick
- JPMorgan  Analyst
Hey, guys. My first housekeeping question I guess on the other income line, can you just remind us what's in other operating income and how we should think about modeling that and then my question really is on RUEHL'S. Can you maybe comment is there any change in how you're thinking about the dilution to 2007 earnings and any early reads of RUEHL'S new store format and how you think about rolling that forward?
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Do you want to take the other end and I will take that?
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
Other income is primarily from the aging of gift cards that we take into income on a pretty systematic basis. As far as modeling go-forward, I think it would be easy to look at last year for Q3 and Q4 and use that as a basis for modeling other income for 2007. Did you want to take the RUEHL'S?
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Yes. You can add on. In terms of RUEHL, guys, this consistently comes up. We're very, very excited about this brand. We continue to see profitability in Q4 of this year and obviously the dilution impact to our profit this year will be much legs than it was last year. We're not going to quantify that amount. We're very excited about it. We're getting to a scale of stores to where gross margin is not an issue, and parity will be consistent with our other brands, and we have done some strong legwork with regards to expense structure and the cost reengineering as well as quite frankly the new store format.
The issue right now is in terms of store productivity on a top line basis, but we're seeing continued momentum there. We're very excited about it. We believe there is a niche in the age group of 22 plus for casual sportswear, and we're very excited about it, particularly some of our most recent stores. We actually have some very good sites coming up in fall with regards to the smaller footprint, Natick Mall, Annapolis, Washington Square, Burlington Mall, so we're very excited about it, and I hope you stop by and see the store.
 
Operator
Thank you. We'll go next to Rob Wilson with Tiburon Research.
 
Rob Wilson
- Tiburon Research  Analyst
Thank you. Could you remind us the start-up costs for Concept 5? I believe previously you said 12 to $15 million this year. Is that still an accurate number, and also what is the share count that is implicit in your back half guidance, diluted share count? Thank you.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Rob, as far as Concept 5, we did give guidance that it would be 12 to $15 million for 2007. The first two quarters of the year we spent roughly $3 million each, so we're looking at about $9 million in home office expense for the balance of the year, and I want to say, specifically that is home office expense. When we get to close to the opening of those stores, there likely will be some start-up costs. I don't expect it to be in excess of a million dollars, but there will be some additional start-up costs as we get to the time of opening. And then as far as share count, we don't give guidance on share count going forward. I think that you can  what we can say is that any potential purchases of stock are embedded in our guidance.
 
Operator
We'll go next to Randy Konik with Bear Stearns.
 
Randy Konik
- Bear Stearns  Analyst
Can you talk a little bit about the Japan flagship hitting in 09? We saw a lot of costs in first quarter 07 for London. Would we expect as much pre opening costs for Japan and when can we expect that to hit, and are you seeing costs hitting the system for some of your systems improvements and before implementation and when should we start to see those costs being levered in early 08 and mid-'08, et cetera?
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Yes. This is Mike Kramer. You can continue to see start-up costs related to Tokyo whenever it opens. We haven't really indicated exactly when that store is going to be open for you to build that into your model. Safe to say it won't be 2009. I would say the amount would probably be roughly the same as you saw with regards to London. In terms of cost of systems before implementation, that's already been embedded in and continues to be embedded in our increased investment in terms of IT. I am not going to go into specifics by initiative by initiative to tell you when you will start receiving the benefit.
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
What we have told and you at length in terms of the beginning of the call is when you might see these actually rolled out, and you should see  you're starting to see some efficiencies built into our system. Guys, hopefully I am not calling with that and you looked at this, bit in terms of our ability to grow EPS at the same rate that we did top line, with a negative to comp for the quarter, there is some leverage happening on a negative comp basis. Where are we getting that? We're getting that through optimization in our systems as well as other optimizations in terms of our P&L, so you're starting to see it. You're going to see a little bit more as time goes on. I think at an increasing rate, but we don't want to get into specifics.
 
Operator
Thank you, we'll take our next question from Adrienne Tennant with Friedman Billings Ramsey.
 
Adrienne Tennant
- Friedman Billings Ramsey  Analyst
Good afternoon. Just wanted to talk about the repurchase activity in the quarter and how we should think about that going into the back half. I think you still have about 4.7 million shares outstanding on that, and then just secondly, when you go into these international markets, what type of market research are you doing kind of design changes or sizing changes for the different tastes and the body types?
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
Repurchase activity go forward. I can tell you that we do intent to get into the market and repurchase shares in Q3. We will not obviously give you color on how much, but I can tell you that our earnings guidance does reflect that. Do you want to take the international?
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Yes. We've said many a time our brand is global in terms of how we're treating it and the roll out. There will be no difference in terms of our product assortment and our stores in Japan as they are here in the United States. However, allocation and/or replenishment is done based on sales, so just by sheer nature of that, depending on the SKU with regards to sizing will fall out within that process. And in anticipation of new stores and normally, particularly in new markets, we will start with a higher week of sales so that we anticipate not losing any sales based on differences in size selling.
 
Operator
We'll take our next question from Margaret Mager with Goldman Sachs.
 
Mike Mager
- Goldman Sachs  Analyst
Hi, how are you, Mike and Mike and tell the other Mike we're sorry he is not going to be with us any more.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
We will.
 
Mike Mager
- Goldman Sachs  Analyst
Can you talk about bottoms in denim and what's happening on that front in terms of business drivers and how you're thinking about that, and then just curious, on your run through on your expenses which you did a great job managing overall, I am just curious, what is the increase in home office payroll? What is that attributed to? Thank you.
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
Margaret, what I can tell you about the bottoms business for the quarter and this should come as no surprise, we've been talking about it, the shorts business was very strong for the quarter, and I can also tell you that the trend in denim improved over the course of the quarter. What that means go forward, we really can't comment on. Again, overlaying that, our tops business has continued to be very strong across all categories, fashion, knits, fleece, just continue to be very strong. I don't want to get into commenting about the back half of the business.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Yes, in terms of the expenses, what increase in home office and payroll, a large portion of that is our investment in Concept 5, and there are obviously other strategic initiatives such as IT and so forth we have invest in as well. Keep in mind it is at a lower rate than it has been historically.
Let me tack onto the conversation, let's talk theoretically about the business. In terms of Mike Jeffries is very, very clear about the fact that we are building a consistent long-term business without losing focus of short-term, but our focus is long-term, and we're not like any of the other retailers out there. We are building a business for long-term growth. What I can tell you in terms of we're not going to talk about future trends, anything outside of the period that we're reporting on. We tried to not do so in the past, and we will continue to not do so.
We believe that the investor should be looking at certain things like who is the best at determining trend, who is the best potentially sometimes at dictating trend, and who is the best if you miss trend in terms of reacting and responding, and we believe the answer to that question is us. We're a very solid player in terms of the product and meeting trends, and we're a very solid player in terms of our management team. We have the best CEO in the business. We have a strong operational team. We have a strong balance sheet, and we have lots of growth initiatives. Need I say more?
It is not about whether we miss lace or hit plaid on shorts. It is really about our long-term ability to wanted our customer and trends.
 
Operator
Next we'll go to John Morris with Wachovia.
 
John Morris
- Wachovia  Analyst
Thanks. Question about third quarter, Mike Kramer I guess. Some of the companies we're talking to have are indicating there is a fairly significant calendar shift effect to the 52, 53-week, and understand you give us guidance according to season, do you see the same kind of shift out of Q3 and into Q2, and do you care to quantify that or give us some kind of color on it so it will help us model accordingly?
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Well, the color I will start off with this, I'm Mike Kramer, and Mike Nuzzo can add to it, but I think we've done a pretty good job of really clarifying, some of the shifts with regard to what we posted in July, and had the sales or the tax shift not occur what our likes would have been, so you could  I will let you do the calculation, and build that in, and in terms of any other shifts, we've obviously built that into our guidance on the back half of the year. Now, the one thing I want to point out, which again I don't know that I need to point it out, I am assuming you are smart enough to calculate this, but with regards to the entire spring season, we grew our EPS 15% and compare that with what we're guiding to on the back half of the year with our EPS guidance, it is roughly 11 to 12% face value, but if you exclude the 53rd week, as well as the tax rate, and I am not going to talk about the salaries, because salaries have been in there both spring and fall, that gets us to about a 16 to 17% growth, so we're guiding to a higher growth in the back half of the year than we did the first half of the year. Mike?
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
Nothing to add.
 
Operator
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
We'll go next to Kimberly Greenberger with Citigroup.
 
Kimberly Greenberger
- Citigroup  Analyst
Great. Thank you. Good afternoon.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Hi, Kimberly.
 
Kimberly Greenberger
- Citigroup  Analyst
Mike, your commentary earlier about the strive for constant improvement was really helpful, and I am just wondering if you can talk about process, procedures, standards, and what areas of the company do you feel most advanced in terms of that constant drive for improvement, and where do you see the most opportunity going forward?
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Well, I can honestly tell you that the strive for improvement is pretty evident throughout the Company. Obviously we have some of the areas that I think are doing better in that arena and some that aren't, and I think you can tell by where we're putting our initiatives, you can tell where we think is the weakest link, but we're making great strides with regards to that. Now, I have said publicly before, I have a CEO that's right brain/left brain, and his focus and his constant pressure is setting standards, raising the bar, setting processes in place to making sure we're meeting our standards and also auditing them, and why is this so important?
It is so important because, guys, we're almost at a run rate of a $4 billion company, and these processes are so important for us to maintain as we grow to $6 billion, to $7 billion, they become more and more important as the business grows and you lose a little bit more touch to the front line. That's just inevitable. There are a lot of retailers out there today that are in the ditch on the road to success that they didn't focus on the processes, and this is something that Mike Jeffries talks about every Monday, and we're focused on it. I know I answered your question more of a general terms but I think you can really tell where we're focused on in terms of where we're talking about our initiatives going.
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
And I would add to that I think part of the benefit we're going to get through our investment in technology is a very key piece of this whole puzzle which is audit, and I think that the reporting that we're starting to see and starting to get over the reporting that we used to get is starting to pay dividend says. I think the ability for people to look at summary information, dashboards, I think has really helped with our business decision making, and I think that you can come up with a process, feel good about, it but you sometimes get to the point where you just assume that it is working correctly, and the audit piece of it I think is going to be a real distinguishing aspect as we go forward over the next couple of years.
 
Operator
Next we'll go to Lorraine Maikis with Merrill Lynch.
 
Lorraine Maikis
- Merrill Lynch  Analyst
Thank you. Good afternoon. Progress on inventory was pretty striking this quarter. Can you speak a little bit about how exactly did you it and how the new systems will help you make further gains and then how much free cash flow do you plan to generate for the year?
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
Lorraine, on the inventory side, we have been driving the inventory performance in the basic categories for some time now, and that, combined with some real strategic work on spring in managing the triggers and the receipts at the end of the season, and really just focusing on coming out of spring as clean as possible, but also really setting the stage for planning inventory flows for the back half of the year and then into spring, spring 08. We feel like the technology enhancements to the planning system are still yet to reap all of the benefits that I think we're going to see because we're  we've worked so hard at a macro level that the benefit of the technology is going to be at the micro level at planning individual key items and ensuring that the inventory that we buy into is right for the sales plan for each of those key items, so we're obviously thrilled about the progress we've made, but I guess what I am trying to say is that we're really only just starting to as I said, tie the inventory buys more to where we think the sales are going to go, so we're obviously very happy about that.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
In terms of the free cash flow for the balance of the year, my answer to that is lots. Next question.
 
Operator
We'll go to Christine Chen with Needham & Company.
 
Christine Chen
- Needham & Company  Analyst
Thank you. Wanted to ask about RUEHL just as a follow-up. You said it is really targeting 22 and up. What sort of is the average sweet spot age there you're seeing shopping in the stores, and the malls where RUEHL opens up, have you seen any impact at all on the core Abercrombie & Fitch stores and D&A and CapEx since I think I missed it? Thank you.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Well, more the most part with regards it RUEHL and the customer base we're targeting, we feel strongly that the shopper that we're seeing represents a wide range of ages, but it is really more centrally targeted on our target age group. As far as any sort of cannibalization on Abercrombie & Fitch stores in the same malls, we have not seen it. Again, it speaks to the fact that we feel like the customer age range is consistent with what we originally planned it to be, so I think we have not seen any issues there.
 
Operator
Thank you. We'll go next to Barbara Wyckoff with Buckingham Research Group.
 
Barbara Wyckoff
- Buckingham Research Group  Analyst
Hi, everyone. Good job, good job. Question. The new replenishment system you talked about, Mike, what is the [continue versus] the prior system?
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Keep in mind that over the last year we had implemented a manual replenishment system where there was a paper printed out every so often, and albeit we made great strides in terms of productivity but like what we're trying to drive throughout the organization is, you know, always raising the bar as we brought in IT and made this electronic to where you can actually have realtime information at any point in time, and it has been very successful for us, particularly in our large volume stores because it really is realtime. They have handheld devices that enable them  enable them to review what was sold since we last replenished the floor floor and be able to get it out on a very timely basis.
 
Operator
Next we'll go to Paul Lejuez with Credit Suisse.
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
 
Paul Lejuez
- Credit Suisse  Analyst
Thanks, guys. Can you quantify the impact of having that extra week in August versus losing one in May? I don't know if you do that in terms of basis points on operating margin or pennies per share. That's one. Second, with the low end of your guidance reflecting a flat comp, I am wondering what you're seeing in the business that justifies planning for flat, just given that you haven't seen that in a couple quarters? Thanks.
 
Mike Nuzzo
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  VP Finance
I can answer. I can answer that by saying that again this is similar to an earlier question that was asked. We're not going to get into trying to quantify the calendar shift that occurred, not the tax free shift. We're going to assume that you guys seen the 22% increase in sales for the quarter on a negative to comp is not what the go-forward relationship would be, but you guys can do the calculation on that. As far as your point about not building the guidance on a flat comp and not having performed to a flat comp, I think the only thing I can say is what we disclosed in July which was, if you exclude the tax free holiday shifts, the business was running up 2, so that's a point of data for you, but as far as the guidance, we have gotten into, I think a good, consistent, message by setting the guidance to a flat comp and then obviously just working through it as we get into the season.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Paul, this is Mike Kramer. The only thing I would add to that is historically we're a very conservative company, and we feel really good about our guidance, and we believe it is conservative. We aim to beat it as we always do.
 
Operator
Next we'll go to Robin Murchison with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
 
Robin Murchison
- SunTrust Robinson Humphrey  Analyst
Thanks. Most of my questions have been answered, but I do wanted to ask you just a little bit in terms of your relationships with your overseas suppliers, you know, article in the Journal today that mentions you guys with one supplier which is not terribly consequential to you at this point or anything, but is everything fairly stable? How do you feel about the relationship overseas and in pricing opportunities overseas? Thanks.
 
Tom Lennox
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  IR, Corporate Communications
Robin, Tom Lennox. The interesting thing, the Journal article today that ran was actually from a vendor of a vendor of ours, so they were once removed, so obviously as you said, it is very small exposure there. As far as what's going on in the greater landscape for relationships with vendor and pricing, I think that you would see in our most recent quarter that actually we secured IMU benefit. There is a lot of chatter about what's happening on a go-forward basis as far as inflation is concerned. I think it is difficult to understand. We have a very good handle on that. We have great relationships with our factories. We're in probably north of 35 different countries and hundreds of factories, so I think that we have proven over the last  I will say ten years at this point because Diane Shank continues to head up the sourcing area here, that not only do we have good relationships, but we secure the highest level of quality for the best price, and we hope to continue to be able to do that.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Yes. This is Mike Kramer. I will add to that. We have one of the best supply sourcing leaders in the business, and she maintains a great relationship throughout those 35 countries, we're in lock step with, you have seen a lot of stuff in the press press in terms of stuff coming out of China that is bad or you also heard about the earthquake in Peru, and we actually have manufacturing in Peru. In conversations with Diane we are seeing no inflationary impact, and none of the things you heard in the press release recently impacted our supply chain.
 
Operator
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
Next we'll go to Janet Kloppenburg with JJK Research.
 
Janet Kloppenburg
- JJK Research  Analyst
Hi, guys.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Hi, Janet.
 
Janet Kloppenburg
- JJK Research  Analyst
Congratulations on a very good quarter.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
Thank you.
 
Janet Kloppenburg
- JJK Research  Analyst
Mike Kramer, I was wondering if you can talk a little bit about the spend on the new Concept 5, and whether or not you thought that that concept, I think it is coming out to about $0.06 a share, and whether she we should think of that as a hurt to your outlook or was there something in last year's numbers that was an investment spend as well that you don't have this year? And with respect to the IT spend, I was just wondering, are we seeing results in the operating margin now or are we  is the investment still out weighing the incremental benefit that we should look forward to in the future, and lastly, if you could give us a back-to-school outlook. Thanks.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
With regard to the impact of Concept 5, we indicated to you the spending that was going on in terms of dollar amount, and comparing that to the previous year, keep in mind there was continued investment in RUEHL. We actually quantified to you the loss with regards to RUEHL, last year i said it would be better this year. That's the beauty about our cost structure and our ability to invest in future initiatives, and we're not investing in them all at once, and as we're seeing improvement in our investment in terms of RUEHL, we're able to afford continued investment in other areas without negatively impacting our business. On a side note, we are investing more in Concept 5 than we did in RUEHL from on up front stage, but hopefully that will secure quicker success.
From an IT spend, you know, we are seeing small results as I said. We anticipate bigger and better results. From an investment  I think the the investment today still is out weighing, but we in the near six to nine months I anticipate seeing more results. In terms of back-to-school, we're pretty clear about not talking about that. Our thoughts with regards to back-to-school are embedded in our guidance, and you saw a little bit of the beginning of back-to-school in our July sales results.
 
Operator
We'll next go to Josh Schwartz with Flatbush Watermill.
 
Josh Schwartz
- Flatbush Watermill  Analyst
Hi, guys, how are you?
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
 
Final Transcript
Aug. 22. 2007 / 4:30PM ET, ANF  Q2 2007 Abercrombie & Fitch Co. Earnings Conference Call
Great.
 
Josh Schwartz
- Flatbush Watermill  Analyst
Good. I just had two questions. Mike Kramer, just to clarify, when you guys first started, you embarked on all of these investments in IT, your comment was that the objective was to leverage, get leverage from four to five billion in sales not 3 to 4. I am curious if I think in answering that last question you alluded to wanting to see some incremental benefit, six to nine months out, so that may be the case, but you made a comment about 6 to $7 billion in sales, so I was confused if there was a different thought today. The other thing is going forward, there has been a lot of spend on CapEx not related to store, in new stores, and I am curious what you think that it is going to be like going forward, if there will be fall off in the nonstore CapEx. Thanks.
 
Mike Kramer
- Abercrombie & Fitch Co.  SVP, CFO
With regards to our investment in IT, and the productivity or the enhancements that it is providing for us, maybe it was misinterpreted, but I think we're saying the same thing. I anticipate actually reaping some reward on these investments as they start to stagger into play. Now, keep many mind that the majority of the investments as well as some of the bigger pieces of investments do not really  are not really implemented until 2008, 2009 time frame, so from 4 to $6 billion I anticipate traction in that arena, and I anticipate full traction from the $6 billion on. Again, there is going to be continued investment as well as we grow our business.
Josh, you asked about CapEx not related to stores. I will throw in stores for a second, but as you think about us going forward with CapEx investment, as you understand, there always will be that core CapEx investment in new stores. This year was $220 million. Next year you probably think about it in the same context. Again, the wild card is flagships, and international development. We will still be refreshing stores. We have done some catch up over the last year or so, so the level of investment from the refresh standpoint is likely to not be as much, but on the home office side in terms of IT and core home office development, just to give you some color, I think that the investment there will be probably pretty similar to what we've been spending over the last year or so, so again we'll be providing pretty detailed CapEx investment expectations when we get around to the fourth quarter conference call, but maybe that gives you a little bit of color thinking about it going forward.
 
Operator
That is all the time we do have for questions today. That does conclude today's conference call. You may now disconnect your lines at any time.
DISCLAIMER
Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.
In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies mayindicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
 2005, Thomson StreetEvents All Rights Reserved.

 
Exhibit 99.4
 
The Board of Directors of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (""), acting upon the recommendation of its Nominating and Board Governance Committee (the "") has adopted this Related Person Transaction Policy (this ""). This Policy is intended to provide guidance to the executive officers and directors of A&F to help them recognize and deal with actual and apparent conflicts of interest that may arise when an executive officer or director has or could have a direct or indirect material interest in a transaction in which A&F or one of its subsidiaries (collectively, the "") is a participant. This Policy also sets forth the guidelines and procedures under which certain transactions must be reviewed and approved or ratified. This Policy is part of the Company's commitment to integrity and enhances our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
A&F
Committee
Policy
Company
A "" is any person:
Related Person
An "" of a person is any:
Immediate Family Member
 
A "" is any transaction, arrangement or relationship, or any series of similar transactions, arrangements or relationships, in which:
Related Person Transaction
"" specifically includes, without limitation, purchases of goods or services by or from a Related Person or entities in which a Related Person has a material interest, indebtedness and guarantees of indebtedness, and employment by the Company of a Related Person. "" also includes any material amendment or modification to an existing Related Party Transaction.
Related Person Transaction
Related Person Transaction
Identification of Potential Related Person Transactions
Related Person Transactions will be brought to A&F management's and the Committee's attention in a number of ways. Each director, director nominee or executive officer of A&F must promptly notify A&F's General Counsel in writing of any interest that such individual or an Immediate Family Member of such individual had, has or may have, in a Related Person Transaction. Any such notice shall include:
Each director, each director nominee and each executive officer will also complete a questionnaire on an annual basis designed to elicit information about potential Related Person Transactions.
In addition, any Related Person Transaction proposed to be entered into by the Company must be reported by A&F management to A&F's General Counsel. Any such report shall include:
 
Any potential Related Person Transaction that is raised will be analyzed by A&F's General Counsel, in consultation with management and with outside counsel, as appropriate, to determine whether the transaction, arrangement or relationship does, in fact, constitute a Related Person Transaction requiring compliance with this Policy.
Review, Approval or Ratification
Each Related Person Transaction shall be reviewed and approved or disapproved by the Committee in accordance with the terms of this Policy and, whenever practicable, prior to effectiveness or consummation of the Transaction. If A&F's General Counsel determines that advance consideration of a Related Person Transaction is not practicable under the circumstances, the Committee shall review and, in its discretion, may ratify the Related Person Transaction at the next meeting of the Committee, or at the next meeting following the date that the Related Person Transaction comes to the attention of A&F's General Counsel; , that A&F's General Counsel may present a Related Person Transaction arising in the time period between meetings of the Committee to the Chair of the Committee, who shall review and may approve or disapprove the Related Person Transaction, subject to ratification by the Committee at the next meeting of the Committee, if appropriate.
provided, however
In addition, any Related Person Transaction previously approved or ratified by the Committee or otherwise already existing that is ongoing in nature shall be reviewed by the Committee annually to ensure that such Related Person Transaction has been conducted in accordance with the previous approval granted by the Committee and that all required disclosures regarding the Related Person Transaction have been made.
If the Company becomes aware of a Related Person Transaction that has not previously been approved under this Policy, the Related Person Transaction shall be promptly reviewed by the Committee. The Committee shall consider all of the relevant facts and
 
circumstances related to the Related Person Transaction, and shall evaluate all options available to the Company, including ratification, revision, termination or rescission of the Related Person Transaction, and shall take such course of action as the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances.
Standing Pre-Approval for Certain Transactions
Each of the following Related Person Transactions shall be deemed to be pre-approved or ratified (as appropriate) by the Committee under the terms of this Policy, even if the aggregate amount involved will exceed $120,000:
 
A Related Person Transaction reviewed under this Policy will be considered approved or ratified if it is authorized by the Committee in accordance with the standards set forth in this Policy after full disclosure of the Related Person's interests in the Related Person Transaction. As appropriate for the circumstances, the Committee shall review and consider all information available to it which it deems relevant, including:
The Committee may approve or ratify the Related Person Transaction only if the Committee determines that, under all of the circumstances, the Transaction is in the best interests of the Company. The Committee may, in its sole discretion, impose such conditions as it deems appropriate on the Company or the Related Person in connection with approval or ratification of the Related Person Transaction.
No director may participate in any approval or ratification of a Related Person Transaction in which the director or an Immediate Family Member of the director is a Related Person, except that the director must provide all material information concerning the Related Person involved in the Related Person Transaction to the Company's General Counsel and the Committee.
 
The review and approval or ratification of a transaction, arrangement or relationship pursuant to this Policy does not necessarily imply that such transaction, arrangement or relationship is required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of SEC Regulation S-K.


