FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20070712141850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On July 12, 2007, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007 and net sales and comparable store sales for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the July 12, 2007 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with the July 12, 2007 news release, the Registrant made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) through (c) Not applicable.
     (d) :
Exhibits
     The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $293.2 million for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007, a 21% increase over net sales of $243.0 million for the five-week period ended July 1, 2006. June comparable store sales increased 2% for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007, compared to the five-week period ended July 8, 2006. Total Company direct-to-consumer net sales increased 79% to $16.7 million for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007, compared to the five-week period ended July 1, 2006.
New Albany, Ohio, July 12, 2007:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales increase of 15% to $1.251 billion from $1.086 billion last year. Comparable store sales decreased 3% for the year-to-date period. Year-to-date, total Company direct-to-consumer net sales increased 51% to $73.1 million.
June 2007 Developments
The Company operated 355 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 182 abercrombie stores, 409 Hollister Co. stores and 17 RUEHL stores in the United States at the end of fiscal June. The Company operates three Abercrombie & Fitch stores and three Hollister Co. stores in Canada, and one Abercrombie & Fitch store in London, England. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com.
To hear the Abercrombie & Fitch pre-recorded June sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2007, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2007 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; ability to hire, train and retain associates; and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

 
Exhibit 99.2
This is Tom Lennox, Vice President Corporate Communications of Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended July 7, 2007.
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007, were $293.2 million compared to $243.0 million for the five-week period ended July 1, 2006. Total Company direct-to-consumer net sales increased to $16.7 million for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007, a 79% increase over sales for the five-week period ended July 1, 2006. June comparable store sales increased 2% for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007, compared to last year's five-week period ended July 8, 2006.
From a merchandising standpoint, across all brands, tops performed very well in both the men's and women's businesses offsetting negative comps in bottoms. In the masculine businesses graphic t-shirts and fleece performed best while in the feminine businesses graphic t-shirts and shorts performed best.
By brand, Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales increased 2%. Men's comps increased by a mid single digit; women's comps decreased by a low single digit. Transactions per store per week increased 1%; average transaction value increased 7%.
In the kids business, abercrombie, comparable store sales increased 6%. Boys comps increased by a low double digit and girls comps increased by a low single digit. Transactions per store per week increased 1%; average transaction value increased 6%.
Hollister comparable store sales increased 2%. Dudes comps increased by a mid single digit; Bettys comps were flat to last year. Transactions per store per week increased 2%; average transaction value increased 1%.
RUEHL comparable store sales were flat compared to last year. Men's comps decreased by a high single digit; women's comps increased by a mid single digit. Transactions per store per week decreased 2%; average transaction value decreased 2%.
By region, comps were strongest in the North Atlantic and weakest in the West.
We will announce July sales on Thursday, August 9, 2007.
Thank You.


