FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20081204160117.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On December 4, 2008, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended November 29, 2008 and for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the December 4, 2008 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with the December 4, 2008 news release, the Registrant made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended November 29, 2008. To listen to this pre-recorded sales message, dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     .
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) through (c) Not applicable.
     (d) :
Exhibits
     The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $267.3 million for the four-week period ended November 29, 2008, a 24% decrease from net sales of $352.3 million for the four-week period ended December 1, 2007. November comparable store sales decreased 28%. Total Company direct-to-consumer net sales decreased 28% to $23.7 million for the four-week period ended November 29, 2008, compared to the four-week period ended December 1, 2007.
New Albany, Ohio, December 4:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales decrease of 2% to $2.810 billion from $2.873 billion last year. Comparable store sales decreased 10% for the year-to-date period. Year-to-date, the Company reported that direct-to-consumer net sales increased 9% to $199.6 million.
November 2008 Developments
The Company operated 353 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 211 abercrombie stores, 501 Hollister Co. stores, 27 RUEHL stores and 13 Gilly Hicks stores in the United States at the end of fiscal October. The Company operates three Abercrombie & Fitch stores, two abercrombie store, five Hollister Co. stores in Canada, and one Abercrombie & Fitch store and one Hollister Co. store in London, England. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com and www.RUEHL.com.
To hear the Abercrombie & Fitch pre-recorded November sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2008 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; ability to hire, train and retain associates; and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

Exhibit 99.2
This is Eric Cerny, Manager Investor Relations of Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended November 29th, 2008.
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the four-week period ended November 29th, 2008, were $267.3 million, a 24% decrease from net sales of $352.3 million for the four-week period ended December 1st, 2007. Total Company direct-to-consumer net sales were $23.7 million for the four-week period ended November 29th, 2008, a 28% decrease from sales for the four-week period ended December 1st, 2007. November comparable store sales decreased 28%.
By brand, Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales were down 25%. Men's comps were down by a mid teen; women's comps were down by a low thirty. Transactions per store per week decreased 25%; average transaction value decreased 1%.
In abercrombie, comparable store sales were down 35%. Boys comps were down by a mid twenty; girls comps were down by a high thirty. Transactions per store decreased 33%; average transaction value decreased 3%.
Hollister comparable store sales were down 29%. Dudes comps were down by a high teen; Bettys comps were down by a mid thirty. Transactions per store decreased 30%; average transaction value decreased 1%.
RUEHL comparable store sales were down 29%. Men's comps were down a high teen; women's comps were down by a high thirty. Transactions per store decreased 29%; average transaction value decreased 9%.
From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included knit tops, fragrance and outerwear, while graphic tees and fleece were weakest. In the feminine businesses, woven shirts and fragrance were stronger performing categories, while knit tops, graphic tees and fleece were weakest.
Comparable store sales were strongest in the flagship stores. Regionally, comparable store sales were down in all US regions and Canada.
The Company will report December sales results on Thursday, January 8, 2009.
Thank You.


