FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20080612163551.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement;
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
     Following the approval of its Board of Directors, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Company") entered into Amendment No. 2 dated as of June 11, 2008, to the Rights Agreement dated as of July 16, 1998 between the Company and National City Bank (as successor to First Chicago Trust Company of New York), as rights agent.
     The amendment extends the final expiration date of the Company's outstanding rights plan (and the Series A Participating Cumulative Preferred Stock Purchase Rights provided for thereunder), which would otherwise have expired on July 16, 2008, until the close of business on July 16, 2018.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On June 11, 2008, John A. Golden effected his previously announced retirement and resignation from the Board of Directors of the Company following the Company's 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
     On June 11, 2008, upon the recommendation of the Company's Nominating and Board Governance Committee, Robert Rosholt was elected to the Board of Directors of the Company to fill the vacancy resulting from the retirement of Mr. Golden and to serve in the class of directors whose terms expire at the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Mr. Rosholt, who recently retired as the Chief Financial Officer of Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, was appointed to serve on the Company's Audit Committee and its Nominating and Board Governance Committee. Following the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, Mr. Rosholt, like other non-associate directors, received a grant of 3,000 restricted stock units. Mr. Rosholt will also receive annual retainers and will be entitled to participate in the Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan on the same basis as the other non-associate directors.
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
     At the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on June 11, 2008, the inspectors of election determined that the non-binding stockholder proposal of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters Pension Fund regarding majority voting had not been properly presented at the meeting in accordance with applicable law and the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Therefore, no vote was taken on the stockholder proposal at the Annual Meeting. However, management noted that the non-binding proposal received significant stockholder support and that fact was reported to and acknowledged by the Company's Board of Directors. Recognizing that majority voting is a relatively new concept among U.S. public companies and that majority voting by-laws appear in many varieties, the Board of Directors intends to review the concept of majority voting and determine whether majority voting should be implemented at the Company and, if so, in what fashion.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (a) :
Financial statements of businesses acquired
               Not applicable.
     (b) :
Pro forma financial information
               Not applicable.
     (c) :
Shell company transactions
               Not applicable.
     (d) :
Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 4.1
     AMENDMENT NO. 2 dated as of June 11, 2008 to the Rights Agreement dated as of July 16, 1998 (the "") between Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and National City Bank, as Rights Agent (the "").
Rights Agreement
Company
Rights Agent
     WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire to amend the Rights Agreement to extend the Final Expiration Date of the Rights to July 16, 2018;
     WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 27 of the Rights Agreement, on June 11, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved an amendment to the Rights Agreement effective June 11, 2008;
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     . . Section 1 of the Rights Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
SECTION 1
Extension of Final Expiration Date
          """ means the close of business on July 16, 2018."
Final Expiration Date
     . Except as expressly amended by this Amendment, the Rights Agreement shall remain in full force and effect as the same was in effect immediately prior to the date of this Amendment.
SECTION 2
No Further Amendment.
     . . This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to any applicable conflicts of law rules, except that the rights and obligations of the Rights Agent shall be governed by the law of the state of New York.
SECTION 3
Governing Law
     . . This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
SECTION 4
Counterparts
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed as of the date first above written.


