FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20080724160447.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
     On July 22, 2008, Michael W. Kramer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. ("A&F" or the "Registrant"), notified the Registrant that he intended to resign from his positions with A&F and its subsidiaries and affiliates, effective August 18, 2008.
     Mr. Kramer has accepted a position with a company (which is not a competitor of A&F) as CEO and will be joining that company on August 18, 2008.
     Mr. Kramer has entered into an agreement (the "Agreement") with Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. setting forth the terms of Mr. Kramer's separation from employment and service with A&F and its subsidiaries and affiliates. Pursuant to the Agreement, Mr. Kramer will be paid the equivalent of 12 months base salary ($775,000). In addition, Mr. Kramer will receive any earned incentive compensation for the period ending July 31, 2008, and accelerated vesting of certain of his outstanding stock awards, including 30,938 restricted stock units and 42,000 stock options. Mr. Kramer will also receive incidental benefits, such as health care continuation, in accordance with A&F's past practices.
     Pursuant to the Agreement, Mr. Kramer agreed to a non-disclosure covenant (unlimited as to time), a 12-month non-competition covenant and a 24-month non-solicitation covenant. Mr. Kramer also agreed to cooperate with A&F and its subsidiaries and affiliates both in defense of any claims asserted against them and otherwise.
     The Agreement is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) through (c)      Not Applicable
     (d) :
Exhibits
     The following exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Agreement ("Agreement") is made by and between Michael Kramer ("EMPLOYEE") and ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MANAGEMENT CO., a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in New Albany, Ohio, which, together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, are collectively referred to herein as the "Company."
     WHEREAS, Employee has been employed by the Company as an officer since on or about August 8, 2005;
     WHEREAS, the parties acknowledge it is in their individual and mutual best interests for Employee to separate from employment as an officer of the Company; and
     WHEREAS, the parties wish to define the terms and conditions of Employee's separation from employment with the Company;
     NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for and in consideration of the following mutual covenants and promises, the undersigned parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereto set his hand this 22 day of July, 2008.
nd
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereto set its hand this 22 day of July, 2008.
nd
 


