FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20080710160045.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
     On July 10, 2008, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a news release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended July 5, 2008 and for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the July 10, 2008 news release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
     In connection with the July 10, 2008 news release, the Registrant made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended July 5, 2008. To listen to this pre-recorded sales message, dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a) through (c) Not applicable.
     (d) :
Exhibits
     The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $309.7 million for the five-week period ended July 5, 2008, a 6% increase over net sales of $293.2 million for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007. June comparable store sales decreased 3%. Total Company direct-to-consumer net sales increased 21% to $20.3 million for the five-week period ended July 5, 2008, compared to the five-week period ended July 7, 2007.
New Albany, Ohio, July 10:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales increase of 7% to $1.343 billion from $1.251 billion last year. Comparable store sales decreased 3% for the year-to-date period. Year-to-date, the Company reported that direct-to-consumer net sales increased 37% to $100.1 million.
June 2008 Developments
The Company operated 352 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 208 abercrombie stores, 471 Hollister Co. stores, 23 RUEHL stores and five Gilly Hicks stores in the United States at the end of fiscal June. The Company operated three Abercrombie & Fitch stores and three Hollister Co. stores in Canada, and one Abercrombie & Fitch store in London, England. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, and www.hollisterco.com and www.RUEHL.com.
To hear the Abercrombie & Fitch pre-recorded June sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading "FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2, 2008, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2008 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; ability to hire, train and retain associates; and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

Exhibit 99.2
This is Brian Logan, Vice President of Investor Relations and Controller of Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended July 5, 2008.
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the five-week period ended July 5, 2008, were $309.7 million compared to $293.2 million for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007. Total Company direct-to-consumer net sales increased to $20.3 million for the five-week period ended July 5, 2008, a 21% increase over sales for the five-week period ended July 7, 2007. June comparable store sales decreased 3%.
By brand, Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales increased 3%. Men's comps increased by a low teen; women's comps decreased by a mid single digit. Transactions per store per week decreased 6% to last year; average transaction value increased 11%.
 
In the kids business, abercrombie, comparable store sales decreased 8%. Boys comps were up by a low single digit; girls comps were down by a low double digit. Transactions per store decreased 15%; average transaction value increased 8%.
Hollister comparable store sales decreased 8%. Dudes comps increased by a mid single digit; Bettys comps decreased by a low teen. Transactions per store decreased 13%; average transaction value increased 4%.
RUEHL comparable store sales decreased 18%. Men's comps were down a mid single digit; women's comps were down by low thirties. Transactions per store decreased 32%; average transaction value increased 5%.
From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, strongest performing masculine categories included, knits, fragrance, shorts and jeans, while graphic tees and swim were weakest. In the feminine businesses, jeans and swimwear were strongest; while graphic tees and knit tops were weakest.
 
Comps continue to be strongest in US-based "tourist" stores and international stores; while mall based comps were strongest in the Southwest and weakest in the West and Midwest.
We will announce July sales on Thursday, August 7, 2008.
Thank You.


