FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20091203160034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On December 3, 2009, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a press release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended November 28, 2009 and for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the December 3, 2009 press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the December 3, 2009 press release, the Registrant made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the four-week period ended November 28, 2009. To listen to this pre-recorded sales message, dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) through (c) Not applicable.
(d) :
Exhibits
The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO.
Dated: December 3, 2009
By: Jonathan E. Ramsden Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
s/ Jonathan E. Ramsden                        
/
 

Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $245.7 million for the four-week period ended November 28, 2009, an 8% decrease from net sales of $267.3 million for the four-week period ended November 29, 2008. November comparable store sales decreased 17%. Total Company direct-to-consumer net merchandise sales increased 3% to $24.5 million.
New Albany, Ohio, December 3, 2009:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales decrease of 19% to $2.272 billion from $2.810 billion last year. Comparable store sales decreased 26% for the year-to-date period. Year-to-date, total Company direct-to-consumer net merchandise sales decreased 7% to $186.2 million.
Additional information regarding sales for fiscal November can be found in a pre-recorded message accessible by dialing (800) 395-0662, or, internationally, by dialing (402) 220-1262.
November 2009 Developments
At month end, the Company operated 347 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 209 abercrombie stores, 509 Hollister Co. stores, 27 RUEHL stores and 16 Gilly Hicks stores in the United States. The Company also operated three Abercrombie & Fitch stores, three abercrombie stores and six Hollister Co. stores in Canada, one Abercrombie & Fitch store and seven Hollister Co. stores in the United Kingdom, and one Abercrombie & Fitch store and one abercrombie store in Italy. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, www.hollisterco.com, www.RUEHL.com and www.gillyhicks.com.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading " FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2009 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: current financial crisis and general economic conditions; changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; ability to hire, train and retain associates; estimates of expenses which the Company may incur in connection with the closure of the Ruehl stores and related direct-to-consumer operations; and the outcome of pending litigation or other adversarial proceedings. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

Exhibit 99.2
This is Eric Cerny, Manager of Investor Relations for Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended November 28, 2009.
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the four-week period ended November 28, 2009, were $245.7 million, an 8% decrease from net sales of $267.3 million for the four-week period ended November 29, 2008. Total Company direct-to-consumer net merchandise sales were $24.5 million for the four-week period ended November 28, 2009, a 3% increase from sales for the four-week period ended November 29, 2008. November comparable store sales decreased 17%.
By brand, Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales were down 11%. Men's comps were down by a high single digit; women's comps were down by a mid-teen. Transactions per average store decreased 3%; average transaction value decreased 3%.
 
For abercrombie, comparable store sales were down 16%. Guys comps were down by a high teen; girls comps were down by a mid-teen. Transactions per average store decreased 1%; average transaction value decreased 9%.
Hollister comparable store sales were down 23%. Dudes comps were down by a high teen; Bettys comps were down by a mid twenty. Transactions per average store decreased 5%; average transaction value decreased 12%.
RUEHL comparable store sales were down 15%. Men's comps were down by a low double digit; women's comps were down by a high teen. Transactions per average store decreased 1%; average transaction value decreased 9%.
Across all brands, average unit retail decreased 13%.
Beginning November 24, we conducted special events in which complimentary gift cards were issued to customers who made purchases above defined amounts. The value of these gift cards issued but not redeemed has been deducted from our reported sales for the month. Upon redemption of the gift cards, the value of the gift cards will be included in sales for the applicable month. Gift cards issued as a result of the special events have an expiration date of January 30, 2010.
th
 
For the month of November, same store sales were weaker in the period prior to Thanksgiving than in the week of Thanksgiving.
From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, sweaters and wovens were stronger categories for men's, while knits and fleece were weaker categories. For women's, woven shirts were stronger while knit tops and sweaters were weaker performing categories.
Regionally, comparable store sales were down in all US regions and Canada, with the western region performing relatively better. Comparable store sales continued to be strongly positive in the London flagship store.
Thank You.


