FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20091008160029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 8, 2009, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") issued a press release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended October 3, 2009 and for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the October 8, 2009 press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the October 8, 2009 press release, the Registrant made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrant's net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period ended October 3, 2009. To listen to this pre-recorded sales message, dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) through (c) Not applicable.
(d) :
Exhibits
The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $248.2 million for the five-week period ended October 3, 2009, a 10% decrease from net sales of $275.4 million for the five-week period ended October 4, 2008. September comparable store sales decreased 18%. Total Company direct-to-consumer net merchandise sales increased 9% to $22.8 million for the five-week period ended October 3, 2009, compared to the five-week period ended October 4, 2008.
New Albany, Ohio, October 8, 2009:
Year-to-date, the Company reported a net sales decrease of 22% to $1.823 billion from $2.327 billion last year. Comparable store sales decreased 28% for the year-to-date period. Year-to-date, total Company direct-to-consumer net merchandise sales decreased 12% to $139.6 million.
September 2009 Developments
At month end, the Company operated 348 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 209 abercrombie stores, 508 Hollister Co. stores, 28 RUEHL stores and 16 Gilly Hicks stores in the United States. The Company also operated three Abercrombie & Fitch stores, three abercrombie stores and six Hollister Co. stores in Canada, and one Abercrombie & Fitch store and six Hollister Co. stores in the United Kingdom. The Company operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, www.hollisterco.com, www.RUEHL.com and www.gillyhicks.com.
To hear the Abercrombie & Fitch pre-recorded September sales message, please dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262.
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
 
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Company's control. Words such as "estimate," "project," "plan," "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "intend," and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading " FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS" in "ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS" of A&F's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Company's financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2009 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: current financial crisis and general economic conditions; changes in consumer spending patterns and consumer preferences; the effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war; the impact of competition and pricing; changes in weather patterns; postal rate increases and changes; paper and printing costs; market price of key raw materials; ability to source product from its global supplier base; political stability; currency and exchange risks and changes in existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas; availability of suitable store locations at appropriate terms; ability to develop new merchandise; ability to hire, train and retain associates; estimates of expenses which the Company may incur in connection with the closure of the Ruehl stores and related direct-to-consumer operations; and the outcome of pending litigation. Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue and profitability are difficult to predict. Therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company, or any other person, that the objectives of the Company will be achieved. The forward-looking statements herein are based on information presently available to the management of the Company. Except as may be required by applicable law, the Company assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized.

Exhibit 99.2
This is Eric Cerny, Manager of Investor Relations for Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended October 3, 2009.
Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the five-week period ended October 3, 2009, were $248.2 million, a 10% decrease from net sales of $275.4 million for the five-week period ended October 4, 2008. Total Company direct-to-consumer net merchandise sales were $22.8 million for the five-week period ended October 3, 2009, a 9% increase from sales for the five-week period ended October 4, 2008. September comparable store sales decreased 18%.
By brand, Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales were down 14%. Men's comps were down by a high single digit; women's comps were down by a high teen. Transactions per average store decreased 6%; average transaction value decreased 8%.
 
For abercrombie, comparable store sales were down 18%. Guys comps were down by a high teen; girls comps were down by a high teen. Transactions per average store decreased 8%; average transaction value decreased 7%.
Hollister comparable store sales were down 21%. Dudes comps were down by a high teen; Bettys comps were down by a low twenty. Transactions per average store decreased 2%; average transaction value decreased 11%. The Hollister Friends with Benefits promotion was accretive to likes for the days in which it ran although the effect for the month as a whole was not significant.
RUEHL comparable store sales were down 25%. Men's comps were down by a low twenty; women's comps were down by a high twenty. Transactions per average store decreased 29%; average transaction value was flat to last year.
Across all brands, average unit retail decreased 9%.
 
From a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, stronger performing masculine categories included outerwear and woven shirts, while knit tops were weaker. Stronger performing feminine categories included woven shirts, dresses and skirts while knit tops and sweaters were weaker.
Regionally, comparable store sales were down in all US regions and Canada. Comparable store sales continued to be strongly positive in the London flagship store.
The Company will release October sales results on Thursday, November 5, 2009.
Thank You.


