FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20090311121818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
.
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On March 6, 2009, Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co. ("A&F Management"), a subsidiary of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant"), entered into a Credit Line Agreement (the "Credit Line Agreement") between A&F Management, as borrower, UBS Bank USA, as lender (the "Lender") and UBS Financial Services Inc. The Credit Line Agreement consists of three parts: a Borrower Agreement; a Credit Line Agreement  Demand Facility; and an Addendum to Credit Line Account Application and Agreement. Pursuant to the terms thereof, the Credit Line Agreement became effective upon receipt of written notice to that effect from the Lender. The Borrower received this notice by letter dated March 6, 2009, which thereby became the effective date.
An affiliate of the Lender provides investment services not specifically outlined in the Credit Line Agreement to A&F Management in the ordinary course of their respective business operations.
The Credit Line Agreement represents a secured, uncommitted demand line of credit under which up to $44,300,000 may be available. The Credit Line Agreement is to be used for general corporate purposes. Being a demand line of credit, the Credit Line Agreement does not have a stated maturity date.
As security for the payment and performance of A&F Management's obligations under the Credit Line Agreement, the Credit Line Agreement provides that A&F Management grants a security interest to the Lender in each account of A&F Management at UBS Financial Services Inc., an affiliate of the Lender, identified as a Collateral Account (as defined in the Credit Line Agreement) as well as any and all money, credit balances, securities, financial assets and other investment property and other property maintained from time to time in any Collateral Account, any over-the-counter options, futures, foreign exchange, swap or similar contracts between A&F Management and UBS Financial Services Inc. or any of its affiliates, any and all accounts of A&F Management at the Lender or any of its affiliates, any and all supporting obligations and other rights relating to the foregoing property, and any and all interest, dividends, distributions and other proceeds of any of the foregoing property, including proceeds of proceeds.
Because certain of the Collateral consists of securities commonly referred to as "Auction Rate Securities" (as defined in the Credit Line Agreement), the Credit Line Agreement provides that the interest rate payable by A&F Management will reflect any changes in the composition of such ARS Collateral (as defined in the Credit Line Agreement) as may be necessary to cause the interest payable by A&F Management under the Credit Line Agreement to equal the interest or dividend rate payable to A&F Management by the issuer of any ARS Collateral.
The terms of the Credit Line Agreement include customary events of default such as payment defaults, the failure to maintain sufficient collateral, the failure to observe any covenant or material representation, bankruptcy and insolvency, cross-defaults to other indebtedness and other stated events of default. Upon an event of default, the obligations under the Credit Line Agreement will become immediately due and payable.
As of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, no advances had been made to A&F Management under the terms of the Credit Line Agreement.
 
The foregoing description of the provisions of the Credit Line Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full and complete terms of (a) the Credit Line Agreement  Borrower Agreement, effective March 6, 2009, signed on behalf of A&F Management; (b) the Credit Line Agreement  Demand Facility, effective March 6, 2009, between A&F Management and UBS Bank USA; and (c) the Addendum to Credit Line Account Application and Agreement, effective March 6, 2009, among A&F Management, UBS Bank USA and UBS Financial Services Inc., which are included as Exhibits 10.1(a), 10.1(b) and 10.1(c), respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by this reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) through (c)     Not Applicable
(d) :
Exhibits
The following exhibits are included with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1(a)
BY SIGNING BELOW, THE BORROWER UNDERSTANDS, ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT:
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned ("Borrower") has signed this Agreement, or has caused this Agreement to be signed in its name by its duly authorized representatives, as of the date indicated below.
DATE: February 16, 2009
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MGMT CO ATTN Scott Lipesky ASSISTANT TREASURER
Name of Borrower:
The authorized signatory of the Borrower must be one of the Authorized Persons designated on the applicable UBS Bank USA supplemental form executed by the Borrower (e.g., the Supplemental Corporate Resolution Form (HP Form))

Exhibit 10.1(b)
THIS CREDIT LINE AGREEMENT (as it may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Agreement") is made by and between the party or parties signing as the Borrower on the Application to which this Agreement is attached (together and individually, the "Borrower") and UBS Bank USA (the "Bank") and, together with the Application, establishes the terms and conditions that will govern the uncommitted demand loan facility made available to the Borrower by the Bank. This Agreement becomes effective upon the earlier of (i) notice from the Bank (which notice may be oral or written) to the Borrower that the Credit Line has been approved and (ii) the Bank making an Advance to the Borrower.
 
 
 
 
If the Bank elects option (ii), no interest shall accrue on the amount of the Advance made by paying the check, and the amount of that Advance shall be due and payable to the Bank immediately (with or without demand by the Bank).
 
 
To the extent permitted by law, and without limiting any of the Bank's other rights and remedies under the Agreement, interest charges on any Advance that are not paid when due will be treated as principal and will accrue interest at a variable rate from the date the payment of interest was due until it is repaid in full.
 
 
Breakage Costs will be calculated by determining the differential between the stated rate of interest (as determined in accordance with Section 4(a) of the Agreement) for the Fixed Rate Advance and prevailing UBS Bank USA Fixed Funding Rate and multiplying the differential by the sum of the outstanding principal amount of the Fixed Rate Advance (or the principal amount of Fixed Rate Advance not taken by the Borrower) multiplied by the actual number of days remaining in the Interest Period for the Fixed Rate Advance (based upon a 360-day year). The Borrower also agrees to promptly pay to the Bank an administrative fee ("Breakage Fee") in connection with any permitted or required prepayment. The Breakage Fee will be calculated by multiplying the outstanding principal amount of the Fixed Rate Advance (or the principal amount of Fixed Rate Advance not taken by the Borrower) by two basis points (0.02%) (with a minimum Breakage Fee of $100.00). Any written notice from the Bank as to the amount of the loss or cost will be conclusive absent manifest error.
 
 
 
For the purpose of giving the Bank control over each Collateral Account and in order to perfect the Bank's security interests in the Collateral, the Borrower and each Pledgor on the applicable Collateral Account consents to compliance by UBS Financial Services Inc., UBS-I or any other securities intermediary (in any case, the "Securities Intermediary") maintaining a Collateral Account with entitlement orders and instructions from the Bank (or from any assignee or successor of the Bank) regarding the Collateral Account and any financial assets or other property held therein without the further consent of the Borrower or any other Pledgor on the applicable Collateral Account. Without limiting the foregoing, the Borrower and each Pledgor on the Collateral Account acknowledges, consents and agrees that, pursuant to a control agreement entered into between the Bank and the Securities Intermediary:
 
 
then, the Credit Line Obligations will become immediately due and payable (without demand) and the Bank may, in its sole and absolute discretion, liquidate, withdraw or sell all or any part of the Collateral and apply the same, as well as the proceeds of any liquidation or sale, to any amounts owed to the Bank, including any applicable Breakage Costs and Breakage Fee. The Bank will not be liable to any Loan Party in any way for any adverse consequences (for tax effect or otherwise) resulting from the liquidation of appreciated Collateral. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the sale may be made in the Bank's sole and absolute discretion by public sale on any exchange or market where business is then usually transacted or by private sale, and the Bank may be the purchaser at any public or private sale. Any Collateral that may decline speedily in value or that customarily is sold on a recognized exchange or market may be sold without providing any Loan Party with prior notice of the sale. Each Loan Party agrees that, for all other Collateral, two calendar days notice to the Loan Party, sent to its last address shown in the Bank's account records, will be deemed reasonable notice of the time and place of any public sale or time after which any private sale or other disposition of the Collateral may occur. Any amounts due and not paid on any Advance following an Event will bear interest from the day following the Event until fully paid at a rate per annum equal to the interest rate applicable to the Advance immediately prior to the Event plus 2.00%. In addition to the Bank's rights under this Agreement, the Bank will have the right to exercise any one or more of the rights and remedies of a secured creditor under the Utah Uniform Commercial Code, as then in effect, or under any other applicable law.
 
Each Borrower and each other Loan Party (if applicable) makes the following representations, warranties and covenants (and each Borrower will be deemed to have repeated each representation and warranty each time a Borrower requests an Advance) to the Bank:
 
Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Bank and the Securities Intermediary, their affiliates and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees against any and all claims, causes of action, liabilities, lawsuits, demands and damages, for example, any and all court costs and reasonable attorneys fees, in any way relating to or arising out of or in connection with this Agreement, except to the extent caused by the Bank's or Securities Intermediary's breach of its obligations under this Agreement. Neither the Bank nor the Securities Intermediary will be liable to any party for any consequential damages arising out of any act or omission by either of them with respect to this Agreement or any Advance or Collateral Account. The provisions of this Section 12 will survive the termination of this Agreement or any related agreement and the repayment of the Credit Line Obligations.
THIS APPLICATION AND AGREEMENT WILL BE RECEIVED AND ACCEPTED BY BANK IN THE STATE OF UTAH, OR IF THIS APPLICATION AND AGREEMENT IS DELIVERED TO BANK'S AGENT, UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC., IT WILL BE RECEIVED AND ACCEPTED WHEN RECEIVED BY UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC.'S UNDERWRITING DEPARTMENT. DELIVERY OF THE APPLICATION AND AGREEMENT TO THE BORROWER'S FINANCIAL ADVISOR AT UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC. WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED RECEIPT OR ACCEPTANCE BY BANK. ALL DECISIONS MADE BY BANK REGARDING THE CREDIT LINE WILL BE MADE IN UTAH.
 
THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF UTAH APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED ENTIRELY IN THE STATE OF UTAH AND, IN CONNECTION WITH THE CHOICE OF LAW GOVERNING INTEREST, THE FEDERAL LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES, EXCEPT THAT WITH RESPECT TO THE COLLATERAL ACCOUNT AND THE BANK'S SECURITY INTEREST THEREIN, THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE NEW YORK UNIFORM COMMERCIAL CODE, AND FOR PURPOSES OF THIS AGREEMENT, THE COLLATERAL ACCOUNT AND THE BANK'S SECURITY INTEREST THEREIN, THE JURISDICTION OF UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC. AND UBS-I SHALL BE DEEMED TO BE THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
This Agreement may not be assigned by the Borrower without the prior written consent of the Bank. This Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the heirs, successors and permitted assigns of the Borrower. The Bank may assign this Agreement, and this Agreement will inure to the benefit of the Bank's successors and assigns.
This Agreement may be amended only by the Bank, including, but not limited to, (i) the addition or deletion of any provision of this Agreement and (ii) the amendment of the (x) "Spread Over LIBOR/UBS Bank USA Fixed Funding Rate" in Schedule I or (y) "Spread Over Prime" in Schedule II to this Agreement, at any time by sending written notice, signed by an authorized officer of the Bank, of an amendment to the Borrower. The amendment shall be effective as of the date established by the Bank. This Agreement may not be amended orally. The Borrower or the Bank may waive compliance with any provision of this Agreement, but any waiver must be in writing and will not be deemed to be a waiver of any other provision of this Agreement. The provisions of this Agreement constitute the entire agreement between the Bank and the Borrower with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior or contemporaneous agreements, proposals, understandings and representations, written or oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof.
If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, by reason of any law, rule, administrative order or judicial or arbitral decision, the determination will not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this Agreement.
 
 
The Ohio laws against discrimination require that all creditors make credit equally available to all creditworthy customers, and that credit reporting agencies maintain separate credit histories on each individual upon request. The Ohio civil rights commission administers compliance with this law.
NOTICE TO BORROWER: DO NOT SIGN THIS AGREEMENT BEFORE YOU READ IT. THIS AGREEMENT PROVIDES FOR THE PAYMENT OF A PENALTY IF YOU WISH TO REPAY A FIXED RATE ADVANCE PRIOR TO THE DATE PROVIDED FOR REPAYMENT IN THE AGREEMENT.
NOTICE TO BORROWER: THE ADVANCES MADE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT ARE DEMAND LOANS AND SO MAY BE COLLECTED BY THE LENDER AT ANY TIME. A NEW LOAN MUTUALLY AGREED UPON AND SUBSEQUENTLY ISSUED MAY CARRY A HIGHER OR LOWER RATE OF INTEREST.
NOTICE TO JOINT BORROWER: YOUR SIGNATURE ON THE AGREEMENT MEANS THAT YOU ARE EQUALLY LIABLE FOR REPAYMENT OF THIS LOAN. IF THE BORROWER DOES NOT PAY, THE LENDER HAS A LEGAL RIGHT TO COLLECT FROM YOU.
 
Each Loan Party acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement supplements their account agreement(s) with the Securities Intermediary relating to the Collateral Account and, if applicable, any related account management agreement(s) between the Loan Party and the Securities Intermediary. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and any other agreement between the Loan Party and the Securities Intermediary, the terms of this Agreement will prevail.
Unless otherwise required by law, all notices to a Loan Party may be oral or in writing, in the Bank's discretion, and if in writing, delivered or mailed by the United States mail, or by overnight carrier or by telecopy to the address of the Loan Party shown on the records of the Bank. Each Loan Party agrees to send notices to the Bank, in writing, at such address as provided by the Bank from time to time.
 
Schedule I to UBS Bank USA Credit Line Agreement
Schedule of Percentage Spreads Over LIBOR or the UBS Bank USA Fixed
Funding Rate, as applicable
Schedule II to UBS Bank USA Credit Line Agreement
Schedule of Percentage Spreads Over Prime
NOTICE TO CO-SIGNER (Traduccion en Ingles Se Requiere Por La Ley)
You are being asked to guarantee this debt. Think carefully before you do. If the borrower doesn't pay the debt, you will have to. Be sure you can afford to pay if you have to, and that you want to accept this responsibility.
You may have to pay to the full amount of the debt if the borrower does not pay. You may also have to pay late fees or collection costs, which increase this amount.
The creditor can collect this debt from you without first trying to collect from the borrower. The creditor can use the same collection methods against you that can be used against the borrower, such as suing you, garnishing your wages, etc. If this debt is ever in default, that fact may become a part of your credit record.
This notice is not the contract that makes you liable for the debt.
 
AVISO PARA EL FIADOR (Spanish Translation Required by Law)
Se le esta pidiendo que garantice esta deuda. Pienselo con cuidado antes de ponerse de acuerdo. Si la persona que ha pedido este prestamo no paga la deuda, usted tendra que pagarla. Este seguro de que usted podra pagar si sea obligado a pagarla y de que usted desea aceptar la responsabilidad.
Si la persona que ha pedido el prestamo no paga la deuda, es posible que usted tenga que pagar la suma total de la deuda, mas los cargos por tardarse en el pago o el costo de cobranza, lo cual aumenta el total de esta suma.
El acreedor (financiero) puede cobrarle a usted sin, primeramente, tratar de cobrarle al deudor. Los mismos metodos de cobranza que pueden usarse contra el deudor, podran usarse contra usted, tales como presentar una demanda en corte, quitar parte de su sueldo, etc. Si alguna vez no se cumpla con la obligacion de pagar esta deuda, se puede incluir esa informacion en la historia de credito de usted.
Este aviso no es el contrato mismo en que se le echa a usted la responsabilidad de la deuda.

Exhibit 10.1(c)
This Addendum (this "Addendum") is attached to, incorporated by reference into and is fully a part of the Credit Line Account Application and Agreement between UBS Bank USA (the "Bank") and the borrower named in the signature area below (the "Borrower"), dated as of the date hereof (as amended or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Agreement"). This Addendum and the Agreement shall not become effective and binding upon the Bank until this Addendum has been executed by the Borrower and accepted by the Bank at its home office. Any conflict between the terms of the Agreement and this Addendum shall be resolved in accordance with the terms of this Addendum. Defined terms used herein to have the respective meanings set forth in the Agreement unless otherwise defined in this Addendum.
Definitions
 
Terms of Advances
"The Borrower acknowledges that the Bank will not make an Advance against the ARS Collateral in amounts equal to the fair market or par value of the ARS Collateral unless the Borrower arranges for another person or entity to provide additional collateral or assurances on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. In requesting an Approved Amount equal to the par value of the ARS Collateral, the Borrower has arranged for UBS Financial Services Inc. to provide, directly or through a third party, the pledge of additional collateral and/or assurances to the Bank so that the Bank will consider making Advances from time to time in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and in amounts equal to, in the aggregate, the par value of the ARS Collateral at the date of an Advance. In addition, the Borrower, the Bank and UBS Financial Services Inc. acknowledge and agree that if (a) the Bank is repaid all of the Credit Line Obligations due to the Bank under the Agreement and this Addendum and (b) as part of such repayment, the Bank realizes on the additional collateral and/or assurances pledged or otherwise provided by UBS Financial Services and/or any such third party to the Bank, then the Agreement shall not terminate and the Bank shall automatically assign to UBS Financial Services Inc. and any such third party, and UBS Financial Services Inc. and any such third party shall automatically assume and be subrogated to, all of the Bank's rights, claims and interest in and under the Agreement and this Addendum, including without limitation, the security interest in the Collateral, including without limitation the ARS Collateral, granted the Bank under the Agreement and this Addendum (further including, without limitation, interest, dividends, distributions, premiums, other income and payments received in respect of any and all such Collateral) to the extent of the amount that the Bank has realized on all or any part of the additional collateral and/or assurances pledged or otherwise provided by UBS Financial Services and/or any such third party to the Bank in order to effect the repayment of the Credit Line Obligations due to the Bank under the Agreement. Upon such automatic assignment and subrogation, UBS Financial Services Inc. and any such third party shall be entitled to directly exercise any and all rights and remedies afforded the Bank under the Agreement, this Addendum and any and all other documents and agreements entered into in connection with the Agreement and/or this Addendum."
Interest
 
Payments
"The Borrower will make additional payments ("Additional Payments") as follows:
 
Each Additional Payment will be applied, as of the date received by the Bank, in the manner set forth in the last sentence of Section 5 d). The Borrower acknowledges that neither the Bank nor UBS Financial Services Inc. sets or arranges for any schedule of Additional Payments. Instead, Additional Payments will be transferred automatically from the Collateral Account whenever amounts are received in the Collateral Account, generally on the second Business Day after receipt.
The Borrower may elect to stop ARS Payments at any time, and this election will cancel all ARS Payments that would occur three (3) Business Days or more after the Bank receives such notice. If the Borrower stops ARS Payments, the Borrower will continue to be obligated to pay principal, interest, and other amounts pursuant to the Agreement. If the Borrower elects to cancel ARS Payments, all other Additional Payments will be cancelled. Cancelling ARS Payments and Additional Payments may result in higher interest charges by the Bank because amounts received in the Collateral Account will not be automatically transferred and credited. Any amounts received in the Collateral Account will remain in the Collateral Account unless the Bank permits you to withdraw all or part of such amounts. Your notice to cancel must be sent to: Attention: Head of Credit Risk Monitoring, UBS Bank USA, 299 South Main Street, Suite 2275, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111, or call (801) 741-0310.
If Additional Payments are sufficient to pay all accrued interest on Advances on or before a due date, then the Borrower need not make an additional interest payment. Excess Additional Payments will be applied against principal. However, if Additional Payments are not sufficient to pay all accrued interest on Advances on or before a due date, then the Bank may, in its sole discretion (1) capitalize unpaid interest as an additional Advance, or (2) require the Borrower to make payment of all accrued and unpaid interest."
Important Disclosure About Required Payments.
 
Remedies
"The Borrower agrees that in the event the Bank determines to liquidate or sell any Collateral, the Bank shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, have the right to do so in any manner, including, without limitation, the sale of Collateral individually or in a block, for cash or for credit, in a public or private sale, with or without public notice, through the use of sealed bids or otherwise, with the aid of any advisor or agent who may be an affiliate of the Bank or in any other manner as the Bank in its sole discretion shall choose. The Borrower acknowledges that the price the Bank obtains for Collateral in the Bank's chosen method of sale may be lower than might be otherwise obtained in another method of sale, and the Borrower hereby agrees that any such sale shall not be considered to be not commercially reasonable solely because of such lower price. The Borrower understands that there may not be a liquid market for the Collateral and that, as a result, the price received for the Collateral upon liquidation or sale by the Bank may be substantially less than the Borrower paid for such Collateral or than the last market value available for it, if any. The Borrower further agrees that any sale by the Bank shall not be considered to be not commercially reasonable solely because there are few (including only one) or no third parties who submit bids or otherwise offer to buy the Collateral. The Borrower understands that the Bank's sale of any of the Collateral may be subject to various state and federal property and/or securities laws and regulations, and that compliance with such laws and regulations may result in delays and/or a lower price being obtained for the Collateral. The Borrower agrees that the Bank shall have the right to restrict any prospective purchasers to those who, in the Bank's sole discretion, the Bank deems to be qualified. The Borrower acknowledges that the Bank shall have sole authority to determine, without limitation, the time, place, method of advertisement and manner of sale and that the Bank may delay or adjourn any such sale in its sole discretion. The Borrower expressly authorizes the Bank to take any action with respect to the Collateral as the Bank deems necessary or advisable to facilitate any liquidation or sale, and the Borrower agrees that the Bank shall not be held liable for taking or failing to take any such action, regardless if a greater price may have been obtained for the Collateral if such action was or was not taken, as applicable. The Borrower hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any legal right of appraisal, notice, valuation, stay, extension, moratorium or redemption that the Borrower would otherwise have with respect to a sale of the Collateral."
Representations, Warranties and Covenants by the Loan Parties
 
Waivers
"The Borrower hereby (i) acknowledges and admits its indebtedness and obligations to the Bank under the Agreement; and (ii) acknowledges, admits and agrees that it has no and shall assert no defenses, offsets, counterclaims or claims in respect of its obligations under the Agreement, in each case notwithstanding any claim or asserted claim that it may have, or purport to have, against any affiliate of the Bank."
Schedules I and II
No Fixed Rate Advances/Prime Credit Lines
Alternative Financing
 
Margin Calls; Interest Payments
Collateral Account Features
"If a Collateral Account has margin features, the margin features will be removed by UBS Financial Services Inc. or UBS International Inc., as applicable, so long as there is no outstanding margin debit in the Collateral Account. If a Collateral Account has Resource Management Account or Business Services Account BSA features, such as check writing, cards, bill payment, or electronic funds transfer services, all such features shall be removed by UBS Financial Services Inc. or UBS International Inc., as applicable."
No Credit Line Checks
Headings
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has signed this Addendum pursuant to due and proper authority as of the date set forth below.


