FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20100609160647.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
On June 9, 2010, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Registrant") held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") at the Registrant's executive offices located at 6301 Fitch Path, New Albany, Ohio. At the close of business on April 13, 2010, the record date for the Annual Meeting, there were a total of 88,196,508 shares of Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Common Stock"), of the Registrant outstanding and entitled to vote. At the Annual Meeting, 77,905,980 or 88.33% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock entitled to vote were represented by proxy or in person and, therefore, a quorum was present.
The vote on proposals presented for stockholder vote at the Annual Meeting was as follows:
 Election of Directors
Proposal 1
Each of Edward F. Limato, Robert A. Rosholt and Craig R. Stapleton was elected as a director of the Registrant to serve for a term of three years to expire at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 2013. Elizabeth M. Lee was elected as a director of the Registrant to serve for a term to expire at the Annual Meeting of stockholders to be held in 2011.
In addition, then incumbent directors whose terms of office continued after the Annual Meeting were: Lauren J. Brisky and Archie M. Griffin, whose terms will continue until the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and James B. Bachmann, Michael S. Jeffries and John W. Kessler whose terms will continue until the 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 Ratification of Appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm of the Registrant for the fiscal year ending January 29, 2011.
Proposal 2
 Approval of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Proposal 3
 
 Stockholder proposal, described under the caption "STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL NO. 1" in the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated May 10, 2010, urging the Registrant's Board of Directors to adopt a policy that the Chairman of the Board be a director who is independent from the Registrant.
Proposal 4
 Stockholder proposal, described under the caption "STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL NO. 2" in the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated May 10, 2010, urging the Registrant's Board of Directors to take necessary steps (except those steps that must be taken by stockholders) to eliminate the classification of the Registrant's Board of Directors and to require that all directors stand for election annually.
Proposal 5
The Registrant's Board of Directors intends to review the appropriate steps that must be taken in order to eliminate the classification of the Registrant's Board of Directors and to require that all directors stand for election annually, and the Board of Directors intends to submit an appropriate proposal in this regard to the stockholders of the Registrant for their consideration at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. As contemplated by "STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL NO. 2," such declassification would be completed in a manner that does not affect the unexpired terms of directors.
 Stockholder proposal, described under the caption "STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL NO. 3" in the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement dated May 10, 2010, urging the Registrant's Board of Directors to (1) adopt and disclose a code of vendor conduct, based on the ILO standards; (2) establish an independent monitoring process that assesses adherence to these standards; and (3) prepare an annual report, at a reasonable cost, omitting proprietary information, on adherence to the supplier code, the first such report to be completed by October 2010.
Proposal 6
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


