FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20100225164946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
.
Item 8.01. Other Events
Effective as of February 23, 2010, Craig R. Stapleton was appointed Lead Independent Director of the Board of Directors of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Company"), to serve in such role until his resignation, death or replacement by a majority of the independent directors of the Company. Simultaneously, the Board of Directors adopted a set of duties and responsibilities of the Lead Independent Director to be added to the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines, which are posted on the Company's corporate website. These duties and responsibilities are included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated herein by this reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) :
Financial statements of businesses acquired
Not applicable.
(b) :
Pro forma financial information
Not applicable.
(c) :
Shell company transactions
Not applicable.
(d) :
Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO.
Dated: February 25, 2010
By: David S. Cupps Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
/s/ David S. Cupps                                          
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Lead Independent Director
If the Chairman of the Board is the Chief Executive of the Company, then one of the independent members of the Board will be named as Lead Independent Director.
The Lead Independent Director shall serve at the discretion of the independent directors, and the election or re-election of the Lead Independent Director shall be called at the request of a majority of the independent directors. If, at any time, the incumbent Lead Independent Director is unable or unwilling to continue to serve as the Lead Independent Director (or, in connection with any meeting, is absent or otherwise unable to perform the duties of Lead Independent Director at such meeting), then the most senior independent director (based on length of service on the Board) shall fulfill the duties and responsibilities of the Lead Independent Director until such time as the independent directors have elected a successor Lead Independent Director.  In addition, the independent directors, by majority vote acting in executive session, may for any reason replace the incumbent Lead Independent Director with a successor Lead Independent Director.
The Board has determined that the Lead Independent Director should have the following specific duties and responsibilities:


