FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20100413152058.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On April 12, 2010, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Company") entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to its employment agreement with Michael S. Jeffries, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Pursuant to the Amendment, Mr. Jeffries will no longer be entitled to unlimited personal use of Company aircraft, but instead, commencing with the current fiscal year (the fiscal year ending January 29, 2011), to the extent that the aggregate incremental cost to the Company (as determined by the Company for purposes of Item 402 of SEC Regulation S-K) of Mr. Jeffries' personal use of Company aircraft in any fiscal year exceeds $200,000, Mr. Jeffries will be required to reimburse the Company for the amount by which the aggregate incremental cost to the Company of his personal use exceeds $200,000. In addition, the Amendment eliminates Mr. Jeffries' right to a tax gross-up payment from the Company in connection with his personal use of Company aircraft.
In consideration of Mr. Jeffries' agreement to the $200,000 cap on the aggregate incremental cost to the Company of his personal use of Company aircraft, the Company has agreed to pay Mr. Jeffries a lump-sum cash payment of $4,000,000, less applicable withholdings for tax payments (payable upon his execution of the Amendment). However, this payment is subject to a clawback in the event that Mr. Jeffries voluntarily terminates his employment without good reason (as defined in Mr. Jeffries' employment agreement) prior to the expiration of the term of his employment agreement (the "Term"), which Term expires on February 1, 2014. Upon any such termination, Mr. Jeffries would be required to repay a pro-rata portion of the lump-sum payment based on the ratio of the number of days remaining in the Term as of his termination date (determined in accordance with the terms of Mr. Jeffries' employment agreement) to the number of days between the date of the Amendment and the expiration of the Term.
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Amendment, which is incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is included with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
(a) through (c) Not applicable.
(d) :
Exhibits
The following exhibit is included with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 (this "") to the Employment Agreement is made and entered into on April 12, 2010, by and between Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Michael S. Jeffries (the "").
Amendment
Company
Executive
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive are parties to that certain Employment Agreement entered into as of December 19, 2008 (the ") pursuant to which the Executive is employed as the Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer; and
Employment Agreement"
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire to amend the terms of the Employment Agreement as set forth herein, effective, except as specifically provided for herein, as of the date hereof, in order to modify certain perquisite arrangements pertaining to the Executive.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
1. Section 8 is amended in its entirety, effective as of January 31, 2010, to read as follows:
"8. Aircraft Travel. The Executive shall be provided, at the expense of the Company, with use of a private aircraft for business travel, both within and outside North America. In addition, the Executive shall be provided, at the expense of the Company, with limited use of a private aircraft for personal travel, both within and outside North America; provided, however, that the incremental cost to the Company of such personal use (as determined by the Company for purposes of Item 402 of SEC Regulation S-K) for each fiscal year during the Term ending on or after January 29, 2011 shall not exceed $200,000, subject to pro-ration for any partial fiscal year. The Executive and the Company shall enter a time sharing agreement, consistent with Federal Aviation Administration regulations, providing for the Executive's reimbursement to the Company (on the terms and conditions set forth in the time sharing agreement), for his use of a private aircraft for any personal travel that exceeds the maximum incremental cost to the Company set forth in this Section 8. The Executive shall be solely responsible for any taxable income recognized by him in connection with the personal use of private aircraft and shall not be entitled to any tax gross up payments or other reimbursement from the Company in connection therewith."
 
2. In consideration of the Executive entering into this Amendment, concurrently with the execution of this Amendment, the Company shall pay the Executive a lump sum cash payment in the amount of $4,000,000, less applicable withholdings for tax payments. In the event that the Executive's employment with the Company terminates as a result of a termination by the Executive without Good Reason (as defined in the Employment Agreement) at any time prior to the expiration of the Term, the Executive shall be required to repay to the Company a "pro-rata portion" of the payment provided for in this paragraph 2. Such "pro-rata portion" shall be determined by multiplying $4,000,000 by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days between the Termination Date (as defined in the Employment Agreement) and February 1, 2014, and the denominator of which is the number of days between the date hereof and February 1, 2014. The pro-rata portion to be repaid shall be repaid to the Company no later than thirty (30) days following the Termination Date.
3. Except as expressly provided herein, the provisions of the Employment Agreement shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed.
 
, the parties have duly executed this Amendment No.1 as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO.
By: David S. Cupps, its Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary
/s/ David S. Cupps                                  
EXECUTIVE
Michael S. Jeffries
/s/ Michael S. Jeffries                                   


