FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20100128170450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On January 22, 2010, Charles F. Kessler, Executive Vice President  Female Merchandising of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. ("A&F" or the "Registrant"), resigned from his positions as an officer with A&F and its subsidiaries and affiliates, effective immediately. Mr. Kessler will remain with A&F on a transitional basis in a non-executive role through July 31, 2010.
Mr. Kessler has entered into an agreement (the "Agreement") with Abercrombie & Fitch Management Co., a subsidiary of A&F, setting forth the terms of Mr. Kessler's separation from employment and service with A&F and its subsidiaries and affiliates. Pursuant to the Agreement, Mr. Kessler's base salary ($816,000) will continue through the transition period ending July 31, 2010 (or a shorter period in the event Mr. Kessler commences other employment during the transition period) and for 12 months thereafter. Mr. Kessler will receive any incentive compensation actually earned under A&F's Incentive Compensation Performance Plan for the six-month period ending January 30, 2010. Provided Mr. Kessler remains employed throughout the transition period, Mr. Kessler will vest into outstanding stock awards that by their terms vest prior to the end of the transition period. At the end of the transition period, Mr. Kessler will forfeit all unvested stock awards and will be entitled to exercise vested stock appreciation rights and stock options in accordance with the terms of the applicable plans. Mr. Kessler will also receive incidental benefits, such as health care continuation and outplacement services, in accordance with A&F's past practices.
Pursuant to the Agreement, Mr. Kessler agreed to a non-disclosure covenant (unlimited as to time), a 12-month non-competition covenant and a 24-month non-solicitation covenant. Mr. Kessler also agreed to cooperate with A&F and its subsidiaries and affiliates both in defense of any claims asserted against them and otherwise.
The Agreement is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
A&F does not anticipate that a successor to Mr. Kessler will be designated. A&F's Chief Executive Officer and other senior executives will assume the merchandising responsibilities of Mr. Kessler.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) through (c) Not Applicable
(d) :
Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Agreement ("Agreement") is made by and between Charles F. Kessler ("EMPLOYEE") and ABERCROMBIE & FITCH MANAGEMENT CO., a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in New Albany, Ohio, which, together with its subsidiaries and affiliates, are collectively referred to herein as the "Company."
WHEREAS, Employee has been employed by the Company since on or about September 6, 1994, and as an officer since on or about May 12, 2003;
WHEREAS, the parties acknowledge it is in their individual and mutual best interests for Employee to separate from employment as an officer of the Company; and
WHEREAS, the parties wish to define the terms and conditions of Employee's separation from employment with the Company;
NOW, THEREFORE, in exchange for and in consideration of the following mutual covenants and promises, the undersigned parties, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereto set his hand this 28th day of January, 2010.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has hereto set its hand this 28th day of January, 2010.
 


