FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20101007160021.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On October 7, 2010, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the Registrant) issued a press release reporting net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period (fiscal month) ended October 2, 2010 and for the fiscal year-to-date. A copy of the October 7, 2010 press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the October 7, 2010 press release, the Registrant made available by telephone a pre-recorded message addressing the Registrants net sales and comparable store sales for the five-week period (fiscal month) ended October 2, 2010. To listen to this pre-recorded sales message, dial (800) 395-0662, or internationally, dial (402) 220-1262. A copy of the pre-recorded sales message transcript is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(a) through (c) Not applicable.
(d) :
Exhibits
The following exhibits are furnished with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO.
Dated: October 7, 2010
By: Jonathan E. Ramsden Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
/s/ Jonathan E. Ramsden
 

Exhibit 99.1
Abercrombie & Fitch (NYSE: ANF) today reported net sales of $305.3 million for the five-week period ended October 2, 2010, a 25% increase from net sales of $244.0 million for the five-week period ended October 3, 2009. September comparable store sales increased 13%. For the fiscal month, total Company direct-to-consumer net merchandise sales increased 42% to $31.3 million. For the fiscal month, total Company international net sales, including direct-to-consumer net sales, increased 94% to $60.3 million.
New Albany, Ohio, October 7, 2010:
Year-to-date, the Company reported net sales of $2.093 billion, a 17% increase from net sales of $1.793 billion last year. Comparable store sales increased 5% for the year-to-date period. Year- to-date, total Company direct-to-consumer net merchandise sales increased 45% to $195.5 million. Year-to-date, total Company international net sales, including direct-to-consumer net sales, increased 91% to $363.3 million.
Additional information regarding sales for fiscal September can be found in a pre-recorded message accessible for two weeks from today, by dialing (800) 395-0662 or, internationally, by dialing (402) 220-1262.
September 2010 Highlights
Other Developments
At fiscal month end, the Company operated a total of 1,104 stores. The Company operated 340 Abercrombie & Fitch stores, 203 abercrombie kids stores, 510 Hollister Co. stores and 17 Gilly Hicks stores in the United States. The Company also operated seven Abercrombie & Fitch stores, four abercrombie kids stores and 23 Hollister Co. stores internationally. The Company also operates e-commerce websites at www.abercrombie.com, www.abercrombiekids.com, www.hollisterco.com and www.gillyhicks.com.
 
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995
A&F cautions that any forward-looking statements (as such term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995) contained in this Press Release or made by management of A&F involve risks and uncertainties and are subject to change based on various important factors, many of which may be beyond the Companys control. Words such as estimate, project, plan, believe, expect, anticipate, intend, and similar expressions may identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, in addition to those included in the disclosure under the heading  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AND RISK FACTORS in ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS of A&Fs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 2010, in some cases have affected and in the future could affect the Companys financial performance and could cause actual results for the 2010 fiscal year and beyond to differ materially from those expressed or implied in any of the forward-looking statements included in this Press Release or otherwise made by management: general economic and financial conditions could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, results of operations and liquidity; loss of the services of skilled senior executive officers could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business; ability to hire, train and retain qualified associates could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business; equity-based compensation awarded under the employment agreement with the Companys Chief Executive Officer could adversely impact the Companys cash flows, financial position or results of operations and could have a dilutive effect on the Companys outstanding Common Stock; failure to anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and fashion trends in a timely manner could cause the Companys profitability to decline; unseasonable weather conditions affecting consumer preferences could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business; disruptive weather conditions affecting the consumers ability to shop could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business; the Companys market share may be adversely impacted at any time by a significant number of competitors; the Companys international expansion plan is dependent on many factors, any of which could delay or prevent successful penetration into new markets and strain its resources; the Companys growth strategy relies on the addition of new stores, which may strain the Companys resources and adversely impact current store performance; the Company may incur costs related to store closures; availability and market prices of key raw materials and labor costs could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business and results of operations; the interruption of the flow of merchandise from key vendors and international manufacturers could disrupt the Companys supply chain; the Company does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depends upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all its merchandise; the Companys reliance on two distribution centers domestically located in the same vicinity, and one distribution center internationally, makes it susceptible to disruptions or adverse conditions affecting its distribution centers; the Companys reliance on third parties to deliver merchandise from its distribution centers to its stores and direct-to-consumer customers could result in disruptions to its business; the Companys development of new brand concepts could have a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely impact financial results; the Companys net sales and inventory levels fluctuate on a seasonal basis, causing its results of operations to be particularly susceptible to changes to back-to-school and holiday shopping patterns; the Companys ability to attract customers to its stores depends heavily on the success of the shopping centers in which they are located; comparable store sales will continue to fluctuate on a regular basis; the Companys net sales are affected by direct-to-consumer sales; the Company may be exposed to risks and costs associated with credit card fraud and identity theft; the Companys litigation exposure could exceed expectations, having a material adverse effect on the Companys financial condition or results of operations; the Companys failure to adequately protect its trademarks could have a negative impact on its brand image and limit its ability to penetrate new markets; the Companys unsecured credit agreement includes financial and other covenants that impose restrictions on its financial and business operations; changes in taxation requirements could adversely impact financial results; the Companys inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices or failure to adequately reserve for self-insured exposures might increase expense and adversely impact financial results; modifications and/or upgrades to information technology systems may disrupt operations; the Company could suffer if the Companys computer systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively; effects of political and economic events and conditions domestically, and in foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including, but not limited to, acts of terrorism or war could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business; potential disruption of the Companys business due to the occurrence of, or fear of, a health pandemic could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business; changes in the regulatory or compliance landscape could adversely affect the Companys business or results of operations; and the Companys operations may be effected by greenhouse emissions and climate change.

Exhibit 99.2
This is Eric Cerny, Manager of Investor Relations for Abercrombie & Fitch. The following is a summary of our sales results for the fiscal month ended October 2, 2010. Before I begin, I remind you that any forward-looking statements I may make are subject to the Safe Harbor Statement found in our SEC filings.
Net sales for the five-week period ended October 2, 2010, were $305.3 million, a 25% increase from net sales of $244.0 million for the five-week period ended October 3, 2009. September comparable store sales increased 13%. Total Company direct-to-consumer net merchandise sales increased 42% to $31.3 million. Total Company international net sales, including direct-to-consumer net sales, increased 94% to $60.3 million.
Abercrombie & Fitch comparable store sales increased 13% for the month. Mens comps were up by a mid-teen; womens comps were up by a low double digit.
For abercrombie kids, comparable store sales increased 24% for the month. Guys comps were up by a low-thirty; Girls comps were up by a high-teen.
 
Abercrombie kids sales for the month benefitted from the redemption of complimentary gift cards issued and deducted from reported sales during the month of August, as well as a credit from unredeemed and expired complimentary gift cards.
Hollister comparable store sales increased 9% for the month. Dudes comps were up by a high teen; Bettys comps were up by a low single digit.
For the month, from a merchandise classification standpoint across all brands, woven shirts, fleece and knit tops were stronger categories for mens while jeans and graphic tees were weaker. For womens, woven shirts, fleece and knit pants were stronger categories while jeans and knit tops were weaker.
Within the month, all weeks had positive comps with weeks two and three being the strongest and week five being the least strong. Sales for the quarter to date period are approximately in line with expectations at the beginning of the quarter.
 
Internationally, the UK continued to comp positively for the month and outperformed the total company trend. The Company opened its first Hollister store in Spain during the month.
Across all brands and channels, average unit retail decreased 12% for the month and decreased 14% for the quarter-to-date period.
Thank You.


