FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20110617090447.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
At the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 16, 2011 (the "2011 Annual Meeting"), the stockholders of Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Company") approved an amendment and restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan"). The Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan:
The Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan is an equity-based incentive plan that allows the Company to grant awards that comply with the requirements of Section 162(m). The Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee has the power in its discretion to grant awards under the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan and determine the terms thereof. Eligibility to participate in the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan is generally limited to an associate of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate. Michael S. Jeffries, the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is considered an eligible associate for any purpose under the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan provides for awards during the term of the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan with respect to a maximum of 8,000,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock. Subject to the terms of the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, up to 8,000,000 shares may be granted as incentive stock options. The number and class of shares available under the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan and/or subject to outstanding awards may be equitably adjusted by the Compensation Committee in the event of various changes in the capitalization of the Company.
The Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan provides that the Compensation Committee may grant awards to eligible participants in any of the following forms, subject to such terms, conditions and provisions as the Compensation Committee may determine to be necessary or desirable: (i) incentive stock options; (ii) nonstatutory stock options; (iii) Common Stock-settled or cash-settled stock appreciation rights; (iv) restricted stock; and (v) restricted stock units.
No associate may be granted in any calendar year an award covering more than 2,000,000 shares of Common Stock (plus any portion of such limit that was unused as of the end of the previous calendar year). This limit is applied separately to each different type of award under the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
If the Compensation Committee specifies that any grant of restricted stock or restricted stock units is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m), the grant, issuance, vesting and/or settlement of such award will be contingent upon the achievement of a pre-established performance goal in accordance with Section 162(m) and the related regulations, as described in the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Unless earlier terminated by the Company's Board of Directors, the authority of the Compensation Committee to make grants under the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan will terminate on June 16, 2021.
A description of the material terms of the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan was included in the Company's 2011 Proxy Statement, under the caption "PROPOSAL 7  APPROVAL OF AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENT OF THE ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO. 2007 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN," which description is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual terms of the Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which is filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provided that our Board of Directors be divided into three classes, with each class having a three-year term. At the 2011 Annual Meeting, our stockholders approved amendments to Article SIXTH, Section 1 and Article NINTH of our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Amendments") to declassify the Board of Directors and provide for the annual election of all directors. A Certificate of Amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on June 16, 2011 and was effective as of such date. Pursuant to the Amendments, directors who have been elected to three-year terms prior to the filing of the Amendment (including directors elected at the 2011 Annual Meeting) will complete those terms. Thereafter, their successors will be elected to one-year terms and from and after our 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, all directors will stand for election annually. The Certificate of Amendment to our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is included with this Current Report on Form 8- as Exhibit 3.1.
K
Item 5.07. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The Company held its 2011 Annual Meeting on June 16, 2011 at its executive offices located at 6301 Fitch Path, New Albany, Ohio. At the close of business on April 27, 2011, the record date for the 2011 Annual Meeting, there were a total of 87,798,035 shares of Common Stock outstanding and entitled to vote. At the 2011 Annual Meeting, 78,922,818 or 89.89% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock entitled to vote were represented by proxy or in person and, therefore, a quorum was present.
The vote on the proposals presented for stockholder vote at the 2011 Annual Meeting was as follows:
 Election of Directors.
Proposal 1
Each of Lauren J. Brisky, Archie M. Griffin and Elizabeth M. Lee was elected as a director of the Company to serve for a term of three years to expire at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 2014. Each of Michael E. Greenlees and Kevin S. Huvane was elected as a director of the Company to serve for a term to expire at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 2013.
In addition, then incumbent directors whose terms of office continued after the 2011 Annual Meeting were: James B. Bachmann, Michael S. Jeffries and John W. Kessler, whose terms will continue until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 2012, and Craig R. Stapleton, whose term will continue until the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held in 2013.
 
 Advisory Vote on the Frequency of Future Advisory Votes on Executive Compensation.
Proposal 2
Based on the voting results above, with respect to the advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation, the Board of Directors has determined that the Company will submit an advisory vote to stockholders on an annual basis to approve the Company's compensation for its executive officers as set forth in its proxy statement for the year.
 Approval of the Advisory Resolution on Executive Compensation.
Proposal 3
 Approval of Amendments to Section 1 of Article SIXTH and Article NINTH the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to Declassify the Board of Directors.
Proposal 4
A copy of the Certificate of Amendment to the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed by the Company with the Delaware Secretary of State on June 16, 2011 to evidence the adoption and approval of the amendments to Article SIXTH, Section 1 and Article NINTH of the Company's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to declassify the Company's Board of Directors is included with this Current Report on Form 8- as Exhibit 3.1.
K
 Ratification of Appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm of the Company for the fiscal year ending January 28, 2012.
Proposal 5
 
 Re-Approval of the Performance Goals under the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Proposal 6
 Approval of the Amendment and Restatement of the Abercrombie & Fitch Co. 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Proposal 7
 Stockholder proposal, described under the caption "PROPOSAL 8  STOCKHOLDER PROPOSAL" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement dated May 16, 2011, urging the Company's Board of Directors to adopt a policy that the Chairman of the Board be a director who is independent from the Company.
Proposal 8
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) through (c) Not applicable.
(d) :
Exhibits
The following exhibits are included with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify:
FIRST: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation duly called and held on March 28, 2011, resolutions were duly adopted setting forth proposed amendments to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, declaring said amendments to be advisable and calling for a meeting of the stockholders for consideration thereof. The resolutions setting forth the proposed amendments are as follows:
RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors hereby unanimously declares it advisable that Section 1 of Article SIXTH of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "Certificate") be amended by deleting current Section 1 of Article SIXTH in its entirety and substituting therefor new Section 1 of Article SIXTH, the text of which shall be as follows:
SIXTH
.
Section 1. . Subject to the special right of the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class, to elect one or more directors of the Corporation:
Election of Directors
(a) From the effective date of this Certificate of Amendment until the election of directors at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, pursuant to Section 141(d) of Delaware Law, the Board of Directors shall be divided into three classes of directors, Class A, Class B and Class C (each Class as nearly equal in number as possible), with the directors in Class A having a term expiring at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, the directors in Class B having a term expiring at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders and the directors in Class C having a term expiring at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders.
(b) Commencing with the election of the directors at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, pursuant to Section 141(d) of Delaware Law, the Board of Directors shall be divided into two classes of directors, Class B and Class C, with the directors in Class B having a term that expires at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders and the directors in Class C having a term that expires at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders. The successors of the directors who, immediately prior to the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, were members of Class A (and whose terms expire at the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders) shall be elected to Class B; the Class B directors who, immediately prior to the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, were members of Class B and whose terms were scheduled to expire at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders shall be assigned by the Board of Directors to Class B for a term expiring at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders; and the directors who, immediately prior to the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders, were members of Class C and whose terms were scheduled to expire at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders shall be assigned by the Board of Directors to Class C for a term expiring at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders.
(c) Commencing with the election of the directors at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, pursuant to Section 141(d) of Delaware Law, the Board shall be divided into one class of directors, Class C, with the directors in Class C having a term that expires at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders. The successors of directors who, immediately prior to the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, were members of Class B (and whose terms expire at the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders) shall be elected to Class C for a term that expires at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, and the directors who, immediately prior to the 2013 annual meeting of stockholders, were members of Class C and whose terms were scheduled to expire at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders shall be assigned by the Board of Directors to Class C for a term expiring at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders.
 
(d) Until the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors shall remain classified as provided in Section 141(d) of Delaware Law. Commencing with the election of directors at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors shall cease to be classified and the directors elected at the 2014 annual meeting of stockholders (and each annual meeting of stockholders thereafter) shall be elected for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders.
Each director elected at any annual meeting of stockholders shall hold office until such director's successor shall have been elected and qualified, subject to prior death, resignation or removal.
FURTHER RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors hereby unanimously declares it advisable that Article NINTH of the Corporation's Certificate be amended by deleting current Article NINTH in its entirety and substituting therefor new Article NINTH, the text of which shall be as follows:
NINTH. For so long as the Board of Directors of the Corporation is classified, any director may be removed at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of stockholders upon the affirmative vote of not less than 75 percent of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Corporation at that time entitled to vote thereon; provided, however, that such director may be removed only for cause and shall receive a copy of the charges against such director, delivered to such director personally or by mail at such director's last known address at least 10 days prior to the date of the stockholders' meeting; provided further, that directors who shall have been elected by the holders of a series or class of Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class, shall be removed only pursuant to the provisions establishing the rights of such series or class to elect such directors. At such time as the Board of Directors shall cease to be classified, directors may be removed in the manner provided under Delaware Law.
SECOND: Pursuant to a resolution of its Board of Directors, the 2011 Annual Meeting of the Stockholders of the Corporation (the "Annual Meeting") was duly called and held on June 16, 2011, upon notice and in accordance with Section 222 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at which Annual Meeting the amendments were considered by the stockholders of the Corporation and the necessary number of shares of the Corporation's Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (the only outstanding shares of the Corporation), as required by applicable provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation were voted in favor of the amendments.
THIRD: That the aforesaid amendments were duly adopted in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be signed by the authorized officer indicated below as of the 16 day of June, 2011.
th

Exhibit 10.1
1. The purpose of this Amended and Restated 2007 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is to aid Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a Delaware corporation (together with its successors and assigns, the "Company"), in attracting, retaining, motivating and rewarding certain employees of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, to provide for equitable and competitive compensation opportunities, to recognize individual contributions and reward achievement of Company goals, and promote the creation of long-term value for stockholders by closely aligning the interests of Participants with those of stockholders. The Plan authorizes stock based incentives for Participants.
Purpose.
2. In addition to the terms defined in Section 1 above and elsewhere in the Plan, the following capitalized terms used in the Plan have the respective meanings set forth in this Section:
Definitions.
(a) means the effective date specified in Section 11(q).
"
Amendment Effective Date
"
(b) shall have the meaning specified in Section 5(b).
"
Annual Limit
"
(c) means any Option, SAR, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Unit, together with any related right or interest, granted to a Participant under the Plan.
"
Award
"
(d) means the legal representatives of the Participant's estate entitled by will or the laws of descent and distribution to receive the benefits under a Participant's Award upon a Participant's death, provided that, if and to the extent authorized by the Committee, a Participant may be permitted to designate a Beneficiary, in which case the "Beneficiary" instead will be the person, persons, trust or trusts (if any are then surviving) which have been designated by the Participant in his or her most recent written and duly filed beneficiary designation to receive the benefits specified under the Participant's Award upon such Participant's death.
"
Beneficiary
"
(e) means the Company's Board of Directors.
"
Board
"
(f) has the meanings specified in Section 9.
"
Change of Control
"
(g) means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. References to any provision of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include any successor provisions and regulations, and reference to regulations includes any applicable guidance or pronouncement of the Department of the Treasury and Internal Revenue Service.
"
Code
"
(h) means the Compensation Committee of the Board, the composition and governance of which is established in the Committee's Charter as approved from time to time by the Board and subject to Section 303A.05 of the Listed Company Manual of the New York Stock Exchange, and other corporate governance documents of the Company. No action of the Committee shall be void or deemed to be without authority due to the failure of any member, at the time the action was taken, to meet any qualification standard set forth in the Committee Charter or the Plan. The full Board may perform any function of the Committee hereunder except to the extent limited under Section 303A.05 of the Listed Company Manual, in which case the term "Committee" shall refer to the Board.
"
Committee
"
(i) means an Eligible Person who is a Covered Employee as specified in Section 11(j).
"
Covered Employee
"
(j) means the effective date specified in Section 11(q).
"
Effective Date
"
(k) has the meaning specified in Section 5.
"
Eligible Person
"
(l) means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. References to any provision of the Exchange Act or rule (including a proposed rule) thereunder shall include any successor provisions and rules.
"
Exchange Act
"
 
(m) means the fair market value of Stock, Awards or other property as determined in good faith by the Committee or under procedures established by the Committee. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, the Fair Market Value of Stock shall be the closing price per share of Stock reported on a consolidated basis for securities listed on the principal stock exchange or market on which Stock is traded on the day as of which such value is being determined or, if there is no closing price on that day, then the closing price on the last previous day on which a closing price was reported.
"
Fair Market Value
"
(n) or means any Option designated as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Code Section 422 and qualifying thereunder.
"
Incentive Stock Option
"
"
ISO
"
(o) means a right, granted under the Plan, to purchase Stock.
"
Option
"
(p) means a person who has been granted an Award under the Plan which remains outstanding, including a person who is no longer an Eligible Person.
"
Participant
"
(q) means Stock granted under the Plan which is subject to certain restrictions and to a risk of forfeiture.
"
Restricted Stock
"
(r) or means a right, granted under the Plan, to receive Stock, cash or other Awards or a combination thereof at the end of a specified deferral period.
"
Restricted Stock Unit
"
"
RSU
"
(s) means, unless otherwise stated by the Committee (or the Board) in an applicable Award agreement, Participant's voluntary termination of employment (with the approval of the Board) after achieving 65 years of age.
"
Retirement
"
(t) means Rule 16b-3, as from time to time in effect and applicable to Participants, promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
"
Rule 16b-3
"
(u) has the meaning specified in Section 4.
"
Share Pool
"
(v) means the Company's Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, and any other equity securities of the Company or other issuer that may be substituted or resubstituted for Stock pursuant to Section 11(c).
"
Stock
"
(w) or means a right granted to a Participant under Section 6(c).
"
Stock Appreciation Rights
"
"
SAR
"
3.
Administration.
(a) The Plan shall be administered by the Committee, which shall have full and final authority, in each case subject to and consistent with the provisions of the Plan, to select Eligible Persons to become Participants; to grant Awards; to determine the type and number of Awards, the dates on which Awards may be exercised and on which the risk of forfeiture shall lapse or terminate, the acceleration of any such dates, the expiration date of any Award, whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances an Award may be settled, or the exercise price of an Award may be paid, in cash, Stock, other Awards, or other property, and other terms and conditions of, and all other matters relating to, Awards; to prescribe documents evidencing or setting terms of Awards (such Award documents need not be identical for each Participant), amendments thereto, and rules and regulations for the administration of the Plan and amendments thereto (including outstanding Awards); to construe and interpret the Plan and Award documents and correct defects, supply omissions or reconcile inconsistencies therein; and to make all other decisions and determinations as the Committee may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan. Decisions of the Committee with respect to the administration and interpretation of the Plan shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all persons interested in the Plan, including Participants, Beneficiaries, transferees under Section 11(b) and other persons claiming rights from or through a Participant, and stockholders.
Authority of the Committee.
 
(b) The express grant of any specific power to the Committee, and the taking of any action by the Committee, shall not be construed as limiting any power or authority of the Committee. The Committee may act through subcommittees, including for purposes of perfecting exemptions under Rule 16b-3 or qualifying Awards under Code Section 162(m) as performance-based compensation, in which case the subcommittee shall be subject to and have authority under the charter applicable to the Committee, and the acts of the subcommittee shall be deemed to be acts of the Committee hereunder. The Committee may delegate the administration of the Plan to one or more officers or employees of the Company, and such administrator(s) may have the authority to execute and distribute Award agreements or other documents evidencing or relating to Awards granted by the Committee under this Plan, to maintain records relating to Awards, to process or oversee the issuance of Stock under Awards, to interpret and administer the terms of Awards and to take such other actions as may be necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Plan and of Awards under the Plan, provided that in no case shall any such administrator be authorized (i) to grant Awards under the Plan, (ii) to take any action that would result in the loss of an exemption under Rule 16b-3 for Awards granted to or held by Participants who at the time are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act in respect of the Company or that would cause Awards intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) to fail to so qualify, (iii) to take any action inconsistent with Section 157 and other applicable provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or (iv) to make any determination required to be made by the Committee under the New York Stock Exchange corporate governance standards applicable to listed company compensation committees (currently, Rule 303A.05). Any action by any such administrator within the scope of its delegation shall be deemed for all purposes to have been taken by the Committee and, except as otherwise specifically provided, references in this Plan to the Committee shall include any such administrator. The Committee established pursuant to Section 3(a) and, to the extent it so provides, any subcommittee, shall have sole authority to determine whether to review any actions and/or interpretations of any such administrator, and if the Committee shall decide to conduct such a review, any such actions and/or interpretations of any such administrator shall be subject to approval, disapproval or modification by the Committee.
Manner of Exercise of Committee Authority.
(c) The Committee and each member thereof, and any person acting pursuant to authority delegated by the Committee, shall be entitled, in good faith, to rely or act upon any report or other information furnished by any executive officer, other officer or employee of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, the Company's independent auditors, consultants or any other agents assisting in the administration of the Plan. Members of the Committee, any person acting pursuant to authority delegated by the Committee, and any officer or employee of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate acting at the direction or on behalf of the Committee or a delegee shall not be personally liable for any action or determination taken or made in good faith with respect to the Plan, and shall, to the extent permitted by law, be fully indemnified and protected by the Company with respect to any such action or determination.
Limitation of Liability.
4.
Stock Subject to Plan.
(a) The total number of shares of Stock reserved and available for delivery in connection with Awards under the Plan shall be 8,000,000 (the "Share Pool"). Subject to limitations provided in Section 6(b)(iv), up to 8,000,000 authorized shares may be granted as ISOs under the Plan. The total number of shares available is subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c). Any shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall consist of authorized and unissued shares or treasury shares.
Overall Number of Shares Available for Delivery.
(b) The Committee may adopt reasonable counting procedures to ensure appropriate counting, avoid double counting (as, for example, in the case of tandem or substitute awards) and make adjustments in accordance with this Section 4(b). To the extent that an Award under the Plan is canceled, expired, forfeited, settled in cash, settled by issuance of fewer shares than the number underlying the Award, or otherwise terminated without delivery of shares to the Participant, the shares retained by or returned to the Company will be available under the Plan; and shares that are withheld from such an Award or separately surrendered by the Participant in payment of any exercise price or taxes relating to such an Award shall be deemed to constitute shares not delivered to the Participant and will be available for future grants under the Plan. In addition, in the case of any Award granted in assumption of or in substitution for an award of a company or business acquired by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate or with which the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate combines, shares issued or issuable in connection with such substitute Award shall not be counted against the Share Pool.
Share Counting Rules.
5.
Eligibility; Per-Person Award Limitations.
(a) Awards may be granted under the Plan only to Eligible Persons. For purposes of the Plan, an "Eligible Person" means an employee of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate, including any person who has been offered employment by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, provided that such prospective employee may not receive any payment or exercise any right relating to an Award until such person has commenced employment with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate. An employee on leave of absence may be considered as still in the employ of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate for purposes of eligibility for participation in the Plan, if so determined by the Committee. For purposes of the Plan, a joint venture in which the Company or a subsidiary has a substantial direct or indirect equity investment shall be deemed an affiliate, if so determined by the Committee. Holders of awards granted by a company or business acquired by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, or with which the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate combines, who will become Eligible Persons are eligible for grants of substitute awards granted in assumption of or in substitution for such outstanding awards previously granted under the Plan in connection with such acquisition or combination transaction, if so determined by the Committee.
Eligibility.
 
(b) In each calendar year during any part of which the Plan is in effect, an Eligible Person may be granted Awards under each of Section 6(b), 6(c), 6(d), or 6(e) relating to up to his or her Annual Limit (such Annual Limit to apply separately to the type of Award authorized under each specified subsection). A Participant's Annual Limit, in any year during any part of which the Participant is then eligible under the Plan, shall equal two million (2,000,000) shares plus the amount of the Participant's unused Annual Limit relating to the same type of Award as of the close of the previous year, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 11(c).
Per-Person Award Limitations.
6.
Specific Terms of Awards.
(a) Awards may be granted on the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6. In addition, the Committee may impose on any Award or the exercise thereof, at the date of grant or thereafter (subject to Sections 11(e) and 11(k)), such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall determine, including terms requiring forfeiture of Awards in the event of termination of employment or service by the Participant and terms permitting a Participant to make elections relating to his or her Award. The Committee shall retain full power and discretion with respect to any term or condition of an Award that is not mandatory under the Plan, subject to Section 11(k). The Committee shall require the payment of lawful consideration for an Award to the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and may otherwise require payment of consideration for an Award except as limited by the Plan.
General.
(b) The Committee is authorized to grant Options to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Options.
(i) The exercise price per share of Stock purchasable under an Option (including both ISOs and non-qualified Options) shall be determined by the Committee, provided that, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary such exercise price shall be (A) fixed as of the grant date, and (B) not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the grant date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any substitute award granted in assumption of or in substitution for an outstanding award granted by a company or business acquired by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, or with which the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate combines, may be granted with an exercise price per share of Stock other than as required above.
Exercise Price.
(ii) Without the approval of stockholders, the Committee will not amend or replace previously granted Options in a transaction that constitutes a "repricing," as such term is used in Section 303A.08 of the Listed Company Manual of the New York Stock Exchange.
No Repricing.
(iii) The Committee shall determine the term of each Option, provided that in no event shall the term of any Option exceed a period of ten years from the date of grant. The Committee shall determine the time or times at which or the circumstances under which an Option may be exercised in whole or in part, provided that, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the sole and exclusive basis for determining both the vesting and exercisability of an Option will be the passage of a specific period of time or the occurrence or non-occurrence of certain specific performance related or non-performance related events (e.g. death, disability, termination of employment and Change of Control). In addition, the Committee shall determine the methods by which such exercise price may be paid or deemed to be paid and the form of such payment (subject to Sections 11(k) and 11(l)), including, without limitation, cash, Stock (including by withholding Stock deliverable upon exercise), other Awards or awards granted under other plans of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate, or other property (including through broker-assisted "cashless exercise" arrangements, to the extent permitted by applicable law), and the methods by or forms in which Stock will be delivered or deemed to be delivered in satisfaction of Options to Participants.
Option Term; Time and Method of Exercise.
(iv) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 6, in the case of the grant of an Option intending to qualify as an ISO: (i) if the Participant owns stock possessing more than 10 percent of the combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company (a "10% Stockholder"), the purchase price of such Option must be at least 110 percent of the fair market value of the Common Stock on the date of grant and the Option must expire within a period of not more than five (5) years from the date of grant, and (ii) termination of employment will occur when the person to whom an Award was granted ceases to be an employee (as determined in accordance with Section 3401(c) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder) of the Company and its subsidiaries. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 6 to the contrary, Options designated as ISOs shall not be eligible for treatment under the Code as ISOs to the extent that either (iii) the aggregate fair market value of shares of Common Stock (determined as of the time of grant) with respect to which such Options are exercisable for the first time by the Participant during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and any Subsidiary) exceeds $100,000, taking Options into account in the order in which they were granted, or (iv) such Options otherwise remain exercisable but are not exercised within three (3) months of termination of employment (or such other period of time provided in Section 422 of the Code).
ISOs.
 
(c) The Committee is authorized to grant SARs to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Stock Appreciation Rights.
(i) An SAR shall confer on the Participant to whom it is granted a right to receive, upon exercise thereof, shares of Stock having a value equal to the excess of (A) the Fair Market Value of one share of Stock on the date of exercise (or, in the case of a "Limited SAR," the Fair Market Value determined by reference to the Change of Control Price, as defined under the applicable award agreement) over (B) the exercise or settlement price of the SAR as determined by the Committee. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted to Participants from time to time either in tandem with or as a component of other Awards granted under the Plan ("tandem SARs") or not in conjunction with other Awards ("freestanding SARs") and may, but need not, relate to a specific Option granted under Section 6(b). The per share price for exercise or settlement of SARs (including both tandem SARs and freestanding SARs) shall be determined by the Committee, but in the case of SARs that are granted in tandem with an Option shall not be less than the exercise price of the Option and in the case of freestanding SARs shall be (A) fixed as of the grant date, and (B) not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the grant date.
Right to Payment.
(ii) Without the approval of stockholders, the Committee will not amend or replace previously granted SARs in a transaction that constitutes a "repricing," as such term is used in Section 303A.08 of the Listed Company Manual of the New York Stock Exchange.
No Repricing.
(iii) The Committee shall determine the term of each SAR, provided that in no event shall the term of an SAR exceed a period of ten years from the date of grant. The Committee shall determine at the date of grant or thereafter, the time or times at which and the circumstances under which an SAR may be exercised in whole or in part (including based on future service requirements), the method of exercise, method of settlement, method by or forms in which Stock will be delivered or deemed to be delivered to Participants, and whether or not an SAR shall be freestanding or in tandem or combination with any other Award. Limited SARs that may only be exercised in connection with a Change of Control or termination of service following a Change of Control as specified by the Committee may be granted on such terms, not inconsistent with this Section 6(c), as the Committee may determine. The Committee may require that an outstanding Option be exchanged for an SAR exercisable for Stock having vesting, expiration, and other terms substantially the same as the Option, so long as such exchange will not result in additional accounting expense to the Company.
Other Terms.
(d) The Committee is authorized to grant Restricted Stock to Participants on the following terms and conditions:
Restricted Stock.
(i) Subject to Section 6(d)(ii), Restricted Stock shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability, risk of forfeiture and other restrictions, if any, as the Committee may impose, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances (including based on achievement of performance conditions and/or future service requirements), in such installments or otherwise and under such other circumstances as the Committee may determine at the date of grant or thereafter. Except to the extent restricted under the terms of the Plan and any Award document relating to the Restricted Stock, a Participant granted Restricted Stock shall have all of the rights of a stockholder, including the right to vote the Restricted Stock and the right to receive dividends thereon (subject to any mandatory reinvestment or other requirement imposed by the Committee). Upon any forfeiture of Restricted Stock, a Participant shall cease to have any rights of a stockholder and shall return any certificates representing such Restricted Stock to the Company.
Grant and Restrictions.
(ii) The grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of Restricted Stock shall occur at such time and in such installments as determined by the Committee or under criteria established by the Committee. Subject to Section 10, the Committee shall have the right to make the timing of the grant and/or the issuance, ability to retain, vesting and/or settlement of Restricted Stock subject to continued employment, passage of time and/or such performance conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee; provided that the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of a Restricted Stock Award that is based in whole or in part on performance conditions and/or the level of achievement versus such performance conditions shall be subject to a performance period of not less than one year, and any Award based solely upon continued employment or the passage of time shall vest over a period not less than three years from the date the Award is made, provided that such vesting may occur ratably over the three-year period. The foregoing minimum vesting conditions need not apply (A) in the case of the death, disability or Retirement of the Participant or termination in connection with a Change of Control, and (B) with respect to up to an aggregate of 5% of the shares of Stock authorized under the Plan, which may be granted (or regranted upon forfeiture) as Restricted Stock or RSUs without regard to such minimum vesting requirements.
Limitation on Vesting.
 
(iii) Restricted Stock granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee shall determine. If certificates representing Restricted Stock are registered in the name of the Participant, the Committee may require that such certificates bear an appropriate legend referring to the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, that the Company retain physical possession of the certificates, and that the Participant deliver a stock power to the Company, endorsed in blank, relating to the Restricted Stock.
Certificates for Stock.
(iv) As a condition to the grant of an Award of Restricted Stock, the Committee may require that any dividends paid on a share of Restricted Stock shall be either (A) paid with respect to such Restricted Stock at the dividend payment date in cash, in kind, or in a number of shares of unrestricted Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such dividends, or (B) automatically reinvested in additional Restricted Stock or held in kind, which shall be subject to the same terms as applied to the original Restricted Stock to which it relates. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Stock distributed in connection with a Stock split or Stock dividend, and other property distributed as a dividend, shall be subject to restrictions and a risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock with respect to which such Stock or other property has been distributed.
Dividends and Splits.
(e) The Committee is authorized to grant RSUs to Participants, subject to the following terms and conditions:
Restricted Stock Units.
(i) Subject to Section 6(e)(ii), RSUs shall be subject to such restrictions on transferability, risk of forfeiture and other restrictions, if any, as the Committee may impose, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such times, under such circumstances (including based on achievement of performance conditions and/or future service requirements), in such installments or otherwise and under such other circumstances as the Committee may determine at the date of grant or thereafter. A Participant granted RSUs shall not have any of the rights of a stockholder, including the right to vote, until Stock shall have been issued in the Participant's name pursuant to the RSUs, except that the Committee may provide for dividend equivalents pursuant to Section 6(e)(iii) below.
Award and Restrictions.
(ii) The grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of RSUs shall occur at such time and in such installments as determined by the Committee or under criteria established by the Committee. Subject to Section 10, the Committee shall have the right to make the timing of the grant and/or the issuance, ability to retain, vesting and/or settlement of RSUs subject to continued employment, passage of time and/or such performance conditions as deemed appropriate by the Committee; provided that the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of an RSU that is based in whole or in part on performance conditions and/or the level of achievement versus such performance conditions shall be subject to a performance period of not less than one year, and any Award based solely upon continued employment or the passage of time shall vest over a period not less than three years from the date the Award is made, provided that such vesting may occur ratably over the three-year period. The foregoing minimum vesting conditions need not apply (A) in the case of the death, disability or Retirement of the Participant or termination in connection with a Change of Control, and (B) with respect to up to an aggregate of 5% of the shares of Stock authorized under the Plan, which may be granted (or regranted upon forfeiture) as Restricted Stock or RSUs without regard to such minimum vesting requirements.
Limitation on Vesting.
(iii) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, dividend equivalents on the specified number of shares of Stock covered by an Award of RSUs shall be either (A) paid with respect to such RSUs at the dividend payment date in cash or in shares of unrestricted Stock having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such dividends, or (B) deferred with respect to such RSUs, either as a cash deferral or with the amount or value thereof automatically deemed reinvested in additional RSUs, other Awards or other investment vehicles having a Fair Market Value equal to the amount of such dividends, as the Committee shall determine or permit a Participant to elect.
Dividend Equivalents.
 
7.
Performance-Based Compensation.
(a) If the Committee specifies that any Restricted Stock or RSU Award is intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Code Section 162(m), the grant, issuance, vesting and/or settlement of such Award shall be contingent upon achievement of preestablished performance goals and other terms set forth in this Section 7. The performance goal for such Awards shall consist of one or more business criteria and the level or levels of performance with respect to each of such criteria, as specified by the Committee consistent with this Section 7. The performance goal shall be an objective business criteria enumerated under Section 7(c) and shall otherwise meet the requirements of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder, including the requirement that the level or levels of performance targeted by the Committee result in the achievement of performance goals being "substantially uncertain". Performance goals may differ for Awards granted to any one Participant or to different Participants.
Performance Goals Generally.
(b) A performance goal shall be established not later than the earlier of (A) 90 days after the beginning of any performance period applicable to such performance-based Award or (B) the time 25% of such performance period has elapsed.
Timing for Establishing Performance Conditions.
(c) For purposes of this Plan, a "performance goal" shall mean any one or more of the following business criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit or subsidiary, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee:
Business Criteria.
(1) gross sales, net sales, or comparable store sales;
(2) gross margin, cost of goods sold, mark-ups or mark-downs;
(3) selling, general and administrative expenses;
(4) operating income, earnings from operations, earnings before or after taxes, earnings before or after interest, depreciation, amortization, or extraordinary or special items;
(5) net income or net income per common share (basic or diluted);
(6) inventory turnover or inventory shrinkage;
(7) return on assets, return on investment, return on capital, or return on equity;
(8) cash flow, free cash flow, cash flow return on investment, or net cash provided by operations;
(9) economic profit or economic value created;
(10) stock price or total stockholder return; and
(11) market penetration, geographic expansion or new concept development; customer satisfaction; staffing; diversity; training and development; succession planning; employee satisfaction; acquisitions or divestitures of subsidiaries, affiliates or joint ventures.
(d) Determinations by the Committee as to the establishment of performance conditions, the amount potentially payable in respect of performance-based Awards, the level of actual achievement of the specified performance conditions relating to such Awards, and the amount of any final Award shall be recorded in writing in the case of Awards intended to qualify under Section 162(m). Specifically, the Committee shall certify in writing, in a manner conforming to applicable regulations under Section 162(m), prior to settlement of each such Award granted to a Covered Employee, that the performance objective relating to the performance-based Award and other material terms of the Award upon which settlement of the Award was conditioned have been satisfied.
Written Determinations.
 
(e) Settlement of performance-based Awards shall be in cash or Stock, in the Committee's discretion. The Committee may, in its discretion, reduce the amount of a settlement otherwise to be made in connection with such Awards. Any settlement which changes the form of payment from that originally specified shall be implemented in a manner such that the Award and other related Awards do not, solely for that reason, fail to qualify as "performance-based compensation" for purposes of Code Section 162(m). The Committee shall specify the circumstances in which such Awards shall be paid or forfeited in the event of a Participant's death, disability or Retirement, in connection with a Change of Control or, subject to the one-year performance condition set forth in Sections 6(d)(ii) and 6(e)(ii), in connection with any other termination of employment prior to the end of a performance period or settlement of such Awards.
Settlement of performance-based Awards; Other Terms.
(f) If at any time after the date on which a Participant has been granted or becomes vested in an Award pursuant to the achievement of a performance goal under Section 7(c), the Committee determines that the earlier determination as to the achievement of the performance goal was based on incorrect data and that in fact the performance goal had not been achieved or had been achieved to a lesser extent than originally determined and a portion of an Award would not have been granted, vested or paid, given the correct data, then (i) such portion of the Award that was granted shall be forfeited and any related shares (or if such shares were disposed of, the cash equivalent) shall be returned to the Company as provided by the Committee, (ii) such portion of the Award that became vested shall be deemed to be not vested and any related shares (or if such shares were disposed of, the cash equivalent) shall be returned to the Company as provided by the Committee, and (iii) such portion of the Award paid to the Participant shall be paid by the Participant to the Company upon notice from the Company as provided by the Committee.
Right of Recapture.
8.
Certain Provisions Applicable to Awards.
(a) Awards granted under the Plan may, in the Committee's discretion, be granted either alone or in addition to, in tandem with, or in substitution or exchange for, any other Award or any award granted under another plan of the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, or any business entity to be acquired by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, or any other right of a Participant to receive payment from the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate. Awards granted in addition to or in tandem with other Awards or awards may be granted either as of the same time as or a different time from the grant of such other Awards or awards.
Stand-Alone, Additional, and Tandem Awards.
(b) The term of each Award shall be for such period as may be determined by the Committee, subject to the express limitations set forth in Sections 6(b)(iii) and 6(c)(iii) or elsewhere in the Plan.
Term of Awards.
(c) Subject to the terms of the Plan (including Sections 11(k) and 11(l)) and any applicable Award document, payments to be made by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate upon the exercise of an Option or other Award or settlement of an Award may be made in such forms as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, and may be made in a single payment or transfer, in installments, or on a deferred basis. The settlement of any Award may be accelerated, and cash paid in lieu of Stock in connection with such settlement, in the Committee's discretion or upon occurrence of one or more specified events, subject to Sections 6(b)(iv), 11(k) and 11(l).
Form and Timing of Payment under Awards.
9.
Change of Control.
(a) Unless the Board or Committee provides otherwise (either at the time of grant of an Award or thereafter) prior to a Change of Control, this Section 9(a) shall govern the treatment of any Option, SAR, Restricted Stock or RSU, the exercisability, vesting and/or settlement of which is based solely upon continued employment or passage of time. In the case of an Award subject to this Section 9(a) that the acquiring or surviving company in the Change of Control assumes upon and maintains following the Change of Control (which Award shall be adjusted as to the number and kind of shares as may be determined appropriate by the Committee prior to the Change of Control), if there occurs an involuntary termination without cause of the Participant holding such Award (excluding voluntary resignation, death, disability or Retirement) within three months prior to or eighteen months following the Change of Control, such Award shall be treated as provided in clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 9(a), as applicable. In the case of an Award subject to this Section 9(a) that the acquiring or surviving company in the Change of Control does not assume upon the Change of Control, immediately prior to the Change of Control, such Award shall be treated as provided in clause (i) or (ii) of this Section 9(a), as applicable. The treatment provided for under this Section 9(a) is as follows:
Impact of Event.
(i) in the case of an Option or SAR, the Participant shall have the ability to exercise such Option or SAR, including any portion of the Option or SAR not previously exercisable, until the earlier of the expiration of the Option or SAR under its original term and a date that is two years (or such longer post-termination exercisability term as may be specified in the Option or SAR) following such date of termination of employment; and
 
(ii) in the case of Restricted Stock or RSUs, the Award shall become fully vested and shall be settled in full. The Committee may also, through the terms of an Award or otherwise, provide for an absolute or conditional exercise, payment or lapse of conditions or restrictions on an Award which shall only be effective if, upon the announcement of a transaction intended to result in a Change of Control, no provision is made in such transaction for the assumption and continuation of outstanding Awards.
(b) Unless the Committee specifies otherwise in the terms of an Award prior to a Change of Control, this Section 9(b) shall control the treatment of any Restricted Stock or RSU if at the time of the Change of Control the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or settlement of such Award is based in whole or in part on performance criteria and level of achievement versus such criteria. In the case of an Award subject to this Section 9(b) in which fifty percent (50%) or more of the performance period applicable to the Award has elapsed as of the date of the Change of Control, the Participant shall be entitled to payment, vesting or settlement of such Award based upon performance through a date occurring within three months prior to the date of the Change of Control, as determined by the Committee prior to the Change of Control, and pro-rated based upon the percentage of the performance period that has elapsed between the date such Award was granted and the date of the Change of Control. In the case of an Award subject to this Section 9(b) in which less than fifty percent (50%) of the performance period applicable to the Award has elapsed as of the date of the Change of Control, the Participant shall be entitled to payment, vesting or settlement of the target amount of such Award, as determined by the Committee prior to the Change of Control, pro-rated based upon the percentage of the performance period that has elapsed between the date such Award was granted and the date of the Change of Control. The Committee may determine either in advance or at the time of the Change of Control the treatment of the pro-rata portion of an Award attributable to the portion of the performance period occurring after the date of the Change of Control.
Effect of Change of Control upon performance-based Awards.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the treatment specified in Sections 9(a) and 9(b) apply with respect to an Award prior to the earliest to occur of (A) the date such amounts would have been distributed in the absence of the Change of Control, (B) a Participant's "separation from service" (as defined under Section 409A of the Code) with the Company (or six months thereafter for "specified employees"), (C) the Participant's death or "disability" (as defined in Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code), or (D) a "change in the ownership or effective control" of the Company or in the "ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Company within the meanings ascribed to such terms in Treasury Department regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code, if and to the extent that the Committee determines, in its sole discretion, that the effect of such treatment prior to the time specified in this Section 9(b)(A), (B), (C) or (D) would be the imposition of the additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code on a Participant holding such Award.
(c) For purposes of the Plan, the term "Change of Control" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in an Award agreement, an occurrence of a nature that would be required to be reported by the Company in response to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A issued under the Exchange Act. Without limiting the inclusiveness of the definition in the preceding sentence, a Change of Control of the Company shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day that any one or more of the following conditions is satisfied:
Definition of Change of Control.
(i) any person is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as that term is defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities and such person would be deemed an "Acquiring Person" for purposes of the Rights Agreement dated as of July 16, 1998, as amended, between the Company and American Stock Transfer & Trust Company, LLC, as successor Rights Agent (the "Rights Agreement"); or
(ii) any of the following occur: (A) any merger or consolidation of the Company, other than a merger or consolidation in which the voting securities of the Company immediately prior to the merger or consolidation continue to represent (either by remaining outstanding or being converted into securities of the surviving entity) 80% or more of the combined voting power of the Company or surviving entity immediately after the merger or consolidation with another entity; (B) any sale, exchange, lease, mortgage, pledge, transfer, or other disposition (in a single transaction or a series of related transactions) of assets or earning power aggregating more than 50% of the assets or earning power of the Company on a consolidated basis; (C) any complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (D) any reorganization, reverse stock split or recapitalization of the Company that would result in a Change of Control as otherwise defined herein; or (E) any transaction or series of related transactions having, directly or indirectly, the same effect as any of the foregoing.
 
10.
Additional Award Forfeiture Provisions.
(a) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, each Award granted shall be subject to the following additional forfeiture conditions, to which the Participant, by accepting an Award hereunder, agrees. If any of the events specified in Section 10(b)(i), (ii), or (iii) occurs (a "Forfeiture Event"), all of the following forfeitures will result:
Forfeiture of Options and Other Awards and Gains Realized Upon Prior Option Exercises or Award Settlements.
(i) The unexercised portion of each Option held by the Participant, whether or not vested, and any other Award not then settled will be immediately forfeited and canceled upon the occurrence of the Forfeiture Event; and
(ii) The Participant will be obligated to repay to the Company, in cash, within five business days after demand is made therefor by the Company, the total amount of Award Gain (as defined herein) realized by the Participant upon each exercise of an Option or settlement of an Award that occurred on or after (A) the date that is six months prior to the occurrence of the Forfeiture Event, if the Forfeiture Event occurred while the Participant was employed by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, or (B) the date that is six months prior to the date the Participant's employment by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate terminated, if the Forfeiture Event occurred after the Participant ceased to be so employed. For purposes of this Section, the term "Award Gain" shall mean (i) in respect of a given Option exercise, the product of (X) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock at the date of such exercise (without regard to any subsequent change in the market price of shares) minus the exercise price times (Y) the number of shares as to which the Option was exercised at that date, and (ii) in respect of any other settlement of an Award granted to the Participant, the Fair Market Value of the cash or Stock paid or payable to the Participant (regardless of any elective deferral) less any cash or the Fair Market Value of any Stock or property (other than an Award or award which would have itself then been forfeitable hereunder and excluding any payment of tax withholding) paid by the Participant to the Company as a condition of or in connection such settlement.
(b) The forfeitures specified in Section 10(a) will be triggered upon the occurrence of any one of the following Forfeiture Events at any time during a Participant's employment by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, or during the one-year period following termination of such employment:
Events Triggering Forfeiture.
(i) The Participant, acting alone or with others, directly or indirectly, (A) engages, either as employee, employer, consultant, advisor, or director, or as an owner, investor, partner, or stockholder unless the Participant's interest is insubstantial, in any business in an area or region in which the Company conducts business at the date the event occurs, which is directly in competition with a business then conducted by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate; (B) induces any customer or supplier of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, with which the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate has a business relationship, to curtail, cancel, not renew, or not continue his or her or its business with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate; or (C) induces, or attempts to influence, any employee of or service provider to the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate to terminate such employment or service. The Committee shall, in its discretion, determine which lines of business the Company conducts on any particular date and which third parties may reasonably be deemed to be in competition with the Company. For purposes of this Section 10(b)(i), a Participant's interest as a stockholder is insubstantial if it represents beneficial ownership of less than five percent of the outstanding class of stock, and a Participant's interest as an owner, investor, or partner is insubstantial if it represents ownership, as determined by the Committee in its discretion, of less than five percent of the outstanding equity of the entity;
(ii) The Participant discloses, uses, sells, or otherwise transfers, except in the course of employment with or other service to the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate, any confidential or proprietary information of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate, including but not limited to information regarding the Company's current and potential customers, organization, employees, finances, and methods of operations and investments, so long as such information has not otherwise been disclosed to the public or is not otherwise in the public domain (other than by the Participant's breach of this provision), except as required by law or pursuant to legal process, or the Participant makes statements or representations, or otherwise communicates, directly or indirectly, in writing, orally, or otherwise, or takes any other action which may, directly or indirectly, disparage or be damaging to the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates or their respective officers, directors, employees, advisors, businesses or reputations, except as required by law or pursuant to legal process; or
 
(iii) The Participant fails to cooperate with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate in any way, including, without limitation, by making himself or herself available to testify on behalf of the Company or such subsidiary or affiliate in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, or investigative, or otherwise fails to assist the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate in any way, including, without limitation, in connection with any such action, suit, or proceeding by providing information and meeting and consulting with members of management of, other representatives of, or counsel to, the Company or such subsidiary or affiliate, as reasonably requested.
(c) Although the conditions set forth in this Section 10 shall be deemed to be incorporated into an Award, a Participant is not thereby prohibited from engaging in any activity, including but not limited to competition with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates. Rather, the non-occurrence of the Forfeiture Events set forth in Section 10(b) is a condition to the Participant's right to realize and retain value from his or her compensatory Options and Awards, and the consequence under the Plan if the Participant engages in an activity giving rise to any such Forfeiture Event are the forfeitures specified herein. The Company and a Participant shall not be precluded by this provision or otherwise from entering into other agreements concerning the subject matter of Sections 10(a) and 10(b).
Agreement Does Not Prohibit Competition or Other Participant Activities.
(d) The Committee may, in its discretion, waive in whole or in part the Company's right to forfeiture under this Section, but no such waiver shall be effective unless evidenced by a writing signed by a duly authorized officer of the Company. In addition, the Committee may impose additional conditions on Awards, by inclusion of appropriate provisions in the document evidencing or governing any such Award.
Committee Discretion.
11.
General Provisions.
(a) The Company may, to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the Committee and subject to Section 11(k), postpone the issuance or delivery of Stock or payment of other benefits under any Award until completion of such registration or qualification of such Stock or other required action under any federal or state law, rule or regulation, listing or other required action with respect to any stock exchange or automated quotation system upon which the Stock or other securities of the Company are listed or quoted, or compliance with any other obligation of the Company, as the Committee may consider appropriate, and may require any Participant to make such representations, furnish such information and comply with or be subject to such other conditions as it may consider appropriate in connection with the issuance or delivery of Stock or payment of other benefits in compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, listing requirements, or other obligations. The foregoing notwithstanding, in connection with a Change of Control, the Company shall take or cause to be taken no action, and shall undertake or permit to arise no legal or contractual obligation, that results or would result in any postponement of the issuance or delivery of Stock or payment of benefits under any Award or the imposition of any other conditions on such issuance, delivery or payment, to the extent that such postponement or other condition would represent a greater burden on a Participant than existed on the 90th day preceding the Change of Control.
Compliance with Legal and Other Requirements.
(b) No Award or other right or interest of a Participant under the Plan shall be pledged, hypothecated or otherwise encumbered or subject to any lien, obligation or liability of such Participant to any party (other than the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate thereof), or assigned or transferred by such Participant otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution or to a Beneficiary upon the death of a Participant, and such Awards or rights that may be exercisable shall be exercised during the lifetime of the Participant only by the Participant or his or her guardian or legal representative, except that Awards and other rights (other than ISOs and SARs in tandem therewith) may be transferred to one or more transferees during the lifetime of the Participant, and may be exercised by such transferees in accordance with the terms of such Award, but only if and to the extent such transfers are permitted by the Committee, subject to any terms and conditions which the Committee may impose thereon (which may include limitations the Committee may deem appropriate in order that offers and sales under the Plan will meet applicable requirements of registration forms under the Securities Act of 1933 specified by the Securities and Exchange Commission). A Beneficiary, transferee, or other person claiming any rights under the Plan from or through any Participant shall be subject to all terms and conditions of the Plan and any Award document applicable to such Participant, except as otherwise determined by the Committee, and to any additional terms and conditions deemed necessary or appropriate by the Committee.
Limits on Transferability; Beneficiaries.
 
(c) In the event that any large, special and non-recurring dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash or property other than Stock), recapitalization, forward or reverse split, Stock dividend, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination, repurchase, share exchange, liquidation, dissolution or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Stock, then the Committee shall, in an equitable manner as determined by the Committee, adjust any or all of (i) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other securities of the Company or other issuer which are subject to the Plan, (ii) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other securities of the Company or other issuer by which annual per-person Award limitations are measured under Section 5, (iii) the number and kind of shares of Stock or other securities of the Company or other issuer subject to or deliverable in respect of outstanding Awards and (iv) the exercise price, settlement price or purchase price relating to any Award or, if deemed appropriate, the Committee may make provision for a payment of cash or property to the holder of an outstanding Option (subject to Sections 11(k) and 11(l)) or other Award. In addition, the Committee is authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards (including performance-based Awards and performance goals and any hypothetical funding pool relating thereto) in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, events described in the preceding sentence, as well as acquisitions and dispositions of businesses and assets affecting any performance conditions), or in response to changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles; provided that no such adjustment shall be authorized or made if and to the extent that the existence of such authority (i) would cause Options, SARs, Restricted Stock or RSUs granted under the Plan to Participants designated by the Committee as Covered Employees and intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder to otherwise fail to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder, or (ii) would cause the Committee to be deemed to have authority to change the targets, within the meaning of Treasury Regulation 1.162-27(e)(4)(vi), under the performance goals relating to Options or SARs granted to Covered Employees and intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder.
Adjustments.
(d)
Tax Provisions.
(i) The Company and any subsidiary or affiliate is authorized to withhold from any Award granted, any payment relating to an Award under the Plan, including from a distribution of Stock, or any payroll or other payment to a Participant, amounts of withholding and other taxes due or potentially payable in connection with any transaction or event involving an Award, or to require a Participant to remit to the Company an amount in cash or other property (including Stock) to satisfy such withholding before taking any action with respect to an Award, and to take such other action as the Committee may deem advisable to enable the Company and Participants to satisfy obligations for the payment of withholding taxes and other tax obligations relating to any Award. This authority shall include authority to withhold or receive Stock or other property and to make cash payments in respect thereof in satisfaction of a Participant's withholding obligations, either on a mandatory or elective basis in the discretion of the Committee, or in satisfaction of other tax obligations. The Company can delay the delivery to a Participant of Stock under any Award to the extent necessary to allow the Company to determine the amount of withholding to be collected and to collect and process such withholding.
Withholding.
(ii) No election under Section 83(b) of the Code (to include in gross income in the year of transfer the amounts specified in Code Section 83(b)) or under a similar provision of the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States may be made unless expressly permitted by the terms of the Award document or by action of the Committee in writing prior to the making of such election. In any case in which a Participant is permitted to make such an election in connection with an Award, the Participant shall notify the Company of such election within ten days of filing notice of the election with the Internal Revenue Service or other governmental authority, in addition to any filing and notification required pursuant to regulations issued under Code Section 83(b) or other applicable provision.
Required Consent to and Notification of Code
Section 83(b)
Election.
(iii)  If any Participant shall make any disposition of shares of Stock delivered pursuant to the exercise of an ISO under the circumstances described in Code Section 421(b) (i.e., a disqualifying disposition), such Participant shall notify the Company of such disposition within ten days thereof.
Requirement of Notification Upon Disqualifying Disposition Under Code Section 
421(b)
.
(e) The Board may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan or the Committee's authority to grant Awards under the Plan without the consent of stockholders or Participants; provided, however, that any amendment to the Plan shall be submitted to the Company's stockholders for approval not later than the earliest annual meeting for which the record date is at or after the date of such Board action:
Changes to the Plan.
(i) if such stockholder approval is required by any federal or state law or regulation or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or any other stock exchange or automated quotation system on which the Stock may then be listed or quoted; or
 
(ii) if such amendment would materially increase the number of shares reserved for issuance and delivery under the Plan; or
(iii) if such amendment would alter the provisions of the Plan restricting the Company's ability to grant Options or SARs with an exercise price that is not less than the Fair Market Value of Stock; or
(iv) in connection with any action to amend or replace previously granted Options or SARs in a transaction that constitutes a "repricing," as such term is used in Section 303A.08 of the Listed Company Manual of the New York Stock Exchange.
The Board may otherwise, in its discretion, determine to submit other amendments to the Plan to stockholders for approval; and provided further, that, without the consent of an affected Participant, no such Board (or any Committee) action may materially and adversely affect the rights of such Participant under any outstanding Award (for this purpose, actions that alter the timing of federal income taxation of a Participant will not be deemed material unless such action results in an income tax penalty on the Participant). With regard to other terms of Awards, the Committee shall have no authority to waive or modify any such Award term after the Award has been granted to the extent the waived or modified term would be mandatory under the Plan for any Award newly granted at the date of the waiver or modification.
(f) The Company or any subsidiary or affiliate may, to the extent permitted by applicable law, deduct from and set off against any amounts the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate may owe to the Participant from time to time (including amounts payable in connection with any Award, owed as wages, fringe benefits, or other compensation owed to the Participant), such amounts as may be owed by the Participant to the Company, including but not limited to amounts owed under Section 10(a), although the Participant shall remain liable for any part of the Participant's payment obligation not satisfied through such deduction and setoff. By accepting any Award granted hereunder, the Participant agrees to any deduction or setoff under this Section 11(f).
Right of Setoff.
(g) To the extent that any Award is deferred compensation, the Plan is intended to constitute an "unfunded" plan for deferred compensation with respect to such Award. With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant or obligation to deliver Stock pursuant to an Award, nothing contained in the Plan or any Award shall give any such Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general creditor of the Company; provided that the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts and deposit therein cash, Stock, other Awards or other property, or make other arrangements to meet the Company's obligations under the Plan. Such trusts or other arrangements shall be consistent with the "unfunded" status of the Plan unless the Committee otherwise determines with the consent of each affected Participant.
Unfunded Status of Awards; Creation of Trusts.
(h) Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board nor its submission to the stockholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or a committee thereof to adopt such other incentive arrangements, apart from the Plan, as it may deem desirable, including incentive arrangements and awards which do not qualify under Code Section 162(m), and such other arrangements may be either applicable generally or only in specific cases.
Nonexclusivity of the Plan.
(i) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, in the event of a forfeiture of an Award with respect to which a Participant paid cash consideration, the Participant shall be repaid the amount of such cash consideration. In addition, nothing herein shall prevent the Committee from authorizing the payment in cash of any amounts with respect to forfeited Awards. No fractional shares of Stock shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award. The Committee shall determine whether cash, other Awards or other property shall be issued or paid in lieu of such fractional shares or whether such fractional shares or any rights thereto shall be forfeited or otherwise eliminated.
Payments in the Event of Forfeitures; Fractional Shares.
 
(j) It is the intent of the Company that Options and SARs granted to Covered Employees and other Awards designated as Awards to Covered Employees subject to Section 7 shall constitute qualified "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder, unless otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of allocation of an Award. Accordingly, the terms of Section 7, including the definitions of Covered Employee and other terms used therein, shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Code Section 162(m) and regulations thereunder. The foregoing notwithstanding, because the Committee cannot determine with certainty whether a given Participant will be a Covered Employee with respect to a fiscal year that has not yet been completed, the term Covered Employee as used herein shall mean only a person designated by the Committee as likely to be a Covered Employee with respect to a specified fiscal year. If any provision of the Plan or any Award document relating to an Award that is designated as intended to comply with Code Section 162(m) does not comply or is inconsistent with the requirements of Code Section 162(m) or regulations thereunder, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to the extent necessary to conform to such requirements, and no provision shall be deemed to confer upon the Committee or any other person discretion to increase the amount of compensation otherwise payable in connection with any such Award upon attainment of the applicable performance objectives.
Compliance with Code Section 
162(m)
.
(k)  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, any Award that is deferred compensation within the meaning of Code Section 409A shall be automatically modified and limited to the extent that the Committee determines necessary to avoid the imposition of the additional tax under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code on a Participant holding such Award.
Certain Limitations on Awards to Ensure Compliance with Code Section 409A.
(l) Other provisions of the Plan notwithstanding, the Committee's authority under the Plan (including under Sections 8(c), 11(c) and 11(d)) is limited to the extent necessary to ensure that any Option or other Award of a type that the Committee has intended to be subject to "equity" accounting with a measurement date at the date of grant under applicable accounting standards shall not become subject to "liability" accounting solely due to the existence of such authority, unless the Committee specifically determines that the Award shall remain outstanding despite such "liability" accounting.
Certain Limitations Relating to Accounting Treatment of Awards.
(m) The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan, any rules and regulations relating to the Plan and any Award document shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without giving effect to principles of conflicts of laws, and applicable provisions of federal law.
Governing Law.
(n) The Committee may modify the terms of any Award under the Plan made to or held by a Participant who is then resident or primarily employed outside of the United States in any manner deemed by the Committee to be necessary or appropriate in order that such Award shall conform to laws, regulations, and customs of the country in which the Participant is then resident or primarily employed, or so that the value and other benefits of the Award to the Participant, as affected by foreign tax laws and other restrictions applicable as a result of the Participant's residence or employment abroad shall be comparable to the value of such an Award to a Participant who is resident or primarily employed in the United States. An Award may be modified under this Section 11(n) in a manner that is inconsistent with the express terms of the Plan, so long as such modifications will not contravene any applicable law or regulation or result in actual liability under Section 16(b) for the Participant whose Award is modified.
Awards to Participants Outside the United States.
(o) Neither the Plan nor any action taken thereunder shall be construed as (i) giving any Eligible Person or Participant the right to continue as an Eligible Person or Participant or in the employ or service of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, (ii) interfering in any way with the right of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate to terminate any Eligible Person's or Participant's employment or service at any time (subject to the terms and provisions of any separate written agreements), (iii) giving an Eligible Person or Participant any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan or to be treated uniformly with other Participants and employees, or (iv) conferring on a Participant any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company unless and until the Participant is duly issued or transferred shares of Stock in accordance with the terms of an Award or an Option is duly exercised. Except as expressly provided in the Plan and an Award document, neither the Plan nor any Award document shall confer on any person other than the Company and the Participant any rights or remedies thereunder.
Limitation on Rights Conferred under Plan.
 
(p) If any of the provisions of the Plan or any Award document is finally held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision shall be deemed modified to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability, and the remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby; , if any of such provisions is finally held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum scope determined to be acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such provision shall be deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such scope in order to make such provision enforceable hereunder. The Plan and any agreements or documents designated by the Committee as setting forth the terms of an Award contain the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter thereof and supersede all prior agreements, promises, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations and warranties between them, whether written or oral with respect to the subject matter thereof.
Severability; Entire Agreement.
provided, that
(q) The Plan became effective upon its approval by the stockholders of the Company on June 13, 2007. The amended and restated plan shall become effective if, and at such time as, the stockholders of the Company have approved it in accordance with applicable law and stock exchange requirements (such date, the "Amendment Effective Date"). Unless earlier terminated by action of the Board, the authority of the Committee to make grants under the Plan shall terminate on the date that is ten years after the latest date upon which stockholders of the Company have approved the Plan, and the Plan will remain in effect until such time as no Stock remains available for delivery under the Plan or as set forth above and the Company has no further rights or obligations under the Plan with respect to outstanding Awards under the Plan.
Plan Effective Date and Termination.


