FILE:ANF/ANF-8K-20110131144840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On January 28, 2011, Abercrombie & Fitch Co. (the "Company") entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to its employment agreement with Michael S. Jeffries, the Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. Pursuant to the Amendment, Mr. Jeffries has voluntarily agreed that he will no longer be entitled to any gross-up payments in the event that any payments or benefits provided to him by the Company are subject to the golden parachute excise tax under Sections 280G and 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Mr. Jeffries will not receive any remuneration from the Company in exchange for agreeing to the Amendment.
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Amendment, which is incorporated herein by reference and a copy of which is included with this Current Report on Form 8- as Exhibit 10.1.
K
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a) through (c) Not applicable.
(d) :
Exhibits
The following exhibit is included with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 to the Employment Agreement is made and entered into on January 28, 2011, by and between Abercrombie & Fitch Co., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and Michael S. Jeffries (the "").
Company
Executive
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive are parties to that certain Employment Agreement entered into as of December 19, 2008 (the "") pursuant to which the Executive is employed as the Company's Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer;
Employment Agreement
WHEREAS, the Company has continuously employed the Executive as the Company's Chief Executive Officer pursuant to employment agreements or arrangements entered into prior to the Employment Agreement since February 1992;
WHEREAS, in the Employment Agreement and in other employment agreements between the Company and the Executive, the Company has provided the Executive with a "golden parachute" tax gross-up for any taxes incurred by the Executive due to Internal Revenue Code Sections 280G and 4999 (a "Golden Parachute Tax Gross-Up");
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive acknowledge that as part of comprehensive compensation policy and corporate governance reviews at many publicly held companies, many companies are no longer providing their executives with a Golden Parachute Tax Gross-Up; and
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive desire to amend the terms of the Employment Agreement as set forth herein, effective, except as specifically provided for herein, as of the date hereof, in order to completely eliminate the Executive's Golden Parachute Tax Gross-Up.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
the parties have duly executed this Amendment No. 2 as of the date first written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,


