FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20021118170029.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Acquisition or disposition of assets	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Acquisition or disposition of assets
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.    
Acquisition or Disposition of Assets.
 
As previously announced, on November 5, 2002, Ventas, Inc. (the "Company"), through its wholly owned subsidiary Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership ("Ventas Realty"), completed a $120 million transaction (the "Transaction") with Trans Healthcare, Inc., a privately owned long-term care and hospital company ("THI").
 
The Transaction is structured as a $53 million sale leaseback transaction (the "Sale Leaseback") and $67 million loan (the "Loan"), which is comprised of a first mortgage loan and a mezzanine loan.
 
Under the Sale Leaseback, Ventas Realty purchased 5 properties and is leasing them back to THI under a master lease (the "Master Lease"). The properties subject to the Sale Leaseback are four skilled nursing facilities and one continuing care retirement community that is comprised of one skilled nursing facility, one rehabilitation hospital, and one assisted living facility. Three of the properties are located in Maryland and two are located in Ohio. These properties contain a total of 770 beds. The Master Lease provides for annual base rent of $5.9 million, escalating each year by three percent.
 
The Loan is divided into two components:
 
 
 
The Transaction covers a total of 32 facilities: 18 skilled nursing facilities, four assisted living facilities, and one rehabilitation hospital containing 1,546 beds in Ohio; and nine skilled nursing facilities containing 1,206 beds in Maryland.
 
The Company funded the transaction on a short-term basis by drawing on its revolving credit facility established pursuant to the Second Amended and Restated Credit, Security and Guaranty Agreement, dated April 17, 2002, among Ventas Realty, as borrower, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company identified therein, as guarantors, the lenders identified therein, including Bank of America, N.A., as Issuing Bank for the Letters of Credit
thereunder, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and UBS Warburg LLC, as Syndication Agent.
 
The value of the Transaction was determined through arms length negotiations. In connection therewith, the Company also obtained independent appraisals of certain of the properties involved in the Transaction.
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and stockholders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements.
 
Actual future results and trends for the Company may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Factors that may affect the plans or results of the Company include, without limitation, (a) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred") and certain of its affiliates to continue to meet and/or perform their obligations under their contractual arrangements with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, including without limitation the lease agreements and various agreements (the "Spin Agreements") entered into by the Company and Kindred at the time of the Company's spin-off of Kindred on May 1, 1998 (the "1998 Spin Off"), as such agreements may have been amended and restated in connection with Kindred's emergence from bankruptcy on April 20, 2001, (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred to continue to meet and/or perform its obligation to indemnify and defend the Company for all litigation and other claims relating to the healthcare operations and other assets and liabilities transferred to Kindred in the 1998 Spin Off, (c) the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and duties under the leases and other agreements with the Company, and their existing credit agreements, (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy, (e) the nature and extent of future competition, (f) the extent of future healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies and procedures, (g) increases in the cost of borrowing for the Company, (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients, (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company, (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, (k) the ability of the Company to pay down, refinance, restructure, and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes
due, (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of the Company's interest rate swap agreements and the ability of the Company to satisfy its obligation to post cash collateral if required to do so under one of these interest rate swap agreements, (m) the ability and willingness of Atria, Inc. ("Atria") to continue to meet and honor its contractual arrangements with the Company and Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership entered into in connection with the Company's spin-off of its assisted living operations and related assets and liabilities to Atria in August 1996, (n) the ability and willingness of the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations, including without limitation, the risk that the Company may fail to qualify as a REIT due to its ownership of common stock in Kindred, (o) the outcome of the audit being conducted by the Internal Revenue Service for the Company's tax years ending December 31, 1997 and 1998, (p) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ending December 31, 2002, (q) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants, (r) the impact on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of Kindred and the Company's other operators resulting from increased operating costs and uninsured liabilities for professional liability claims, particularly in the state of Florida and (s) the value of the Company's common stock in Kindred and the limitations on the ability of the Company to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its common stock in Kindred arising out of the securities laws and the registration rights agreement the Company entered into with Kindred and certain of the holders of the common stock in Kindred. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 
Item 7.    
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)  Financial statements of businesses acquired.
 
Not applicable.
 
(b)  Pro forma financial information.
 
Not applicable.
 
(c)  Exhibits:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:    November 18, 2002
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1.1 PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT
THIS PURCHASE AND SALE AGREEMENT (this "Agreement") is made and entered into this 1st day of November, 2002, by and between TRANS HEALTHCARE OF OHIO, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Seller"), and VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership ("Buyer"). RECITALS WHEREAS, Seller beneficially owns the four (4) healthcare facilities identified on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof as the "Owned Facilities"; and WHEREAS, Trans Healthcare, Inc., an affiliate of Seller ("THC"), is party to that certain Asset Purchase Agreement dated March 19, 2002, as amended by that certain First Addendum to Asset Purchase Agreement dated August 30, 2002 (as amended, the "Millennium Agreement"), with Millennium Health Services, LLC, et. al. (collectively, the "Current Owner"), Robert G. Owens and Stanley H. Snow, pursuant to which Seller has the right to purchase and acquire from the Current Owner the three (3) healthcare facilities identified as the "Contract Facilities" on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof; and WHEREAS, at Closing, Current Owner shall convey each Contract Facility to Buyer pursuant to a special warranty deed (or comparable deed or instrument) in form and substance acceptable to Buyer; and WHEREAS, at Closing, THC, Seller, Current Owner, the Seller Parties (as defined in the Millennium Agreement) and Buyer shall execute and enter into that certain Contract Right Assignment (as hereinafter defined); and WHEREAS, the Contract Facilities are operated by those certain affiliates of Current Owner identified as the "Current Operators" on Schedule 2 attached hereto and made a part hereof; and WHEREAS, the Owned Facilities and the Contract Facilities are collectively referred to herein as "Facilities," and, each, individually, as a "Facility;" and WHEREAS, from and after Closing (as hereinafter defined), the Facilities will be leased by Buyer to, and operated by, those certain affiliates of Seller identified on Schedule 2 attached hereto and made a part hereof (collectively, the "Operators", and each, individually, an "Operator"); and WHEREAS, Ventas, Inc., an affiliate of Buyer ("Ventas"), and THC have previously executed and entered into that certain Term Sheet (the "Term Sheet"), dated September 24, 2002, describing the general terms and conditions upon which THC and Seller would be willing to sell, transfer and convey the Facilities to Buyer, and Buyer would be willing to acquire the Facilities from Seller; and WHEREAS, Buyer and THC have previously executed and entered into that certain Commitment Letter (the "Commitment Letter") further describing the general terms and conditions upon which Seller would be willing to sell, transfer and convey the Facilities to Buyer, and Buyer would be willing to assume and accept the Facilities from Seller; and
WHEREAS, Seller desires to sell, transfer, convey and assign to Buyer, and Buyer desires to acquire, assume and accept from Seller, the Facilities on and subject to the terms and conditions contained in this Agreement; and WHEREAS, Ventas and THC have previously executed and entered into that certain Term Sheet (the "Loan Term Sheet"), dated September 24, 2002, describing the general terms and conditions upon which Buyer would be willing to provide first mortgage and so-called "mezzanine" financing to THC or its affiliates in connection with their ownership and operation of certain healthcare facilities owned, or to be acquired pursuant to, the Millennium Agreement, by THC or its affiliates (such financing, the "Loan Transaction"); and WHEREAS, Buyer and THC have previously executed and entered into that certain Commitment Letter (the "Loan Commitment Letter") further describing the general terms and conditions upon which Buyer and THC would be willing to engage in the Loan Transaction. NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are acknowledged hereby, the parties hereto agree to incorporate the foregoing recitals as if the same were more particularly set forth in the body of this Agreement and further agree as follows: 1. SALE. Seller agrees to sell and convey to Buyer (or cause to be sold and conveyed to Buyer), and Buyer agrees to purchase from Seller, for the purchase price set forth below, and on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, the Property (as hereinafter defined), including the Facilities. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Property" shall be deemed to mean on a collective basis: 1.1. The Land. The parcels of land legally described on Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof, together with all rights, easements and interests appurtenant thereto including, but not limited to, any streets or other public ways adjacent to the Land and any water or mineral rights owned by, or leased to, Seller or Current Owner, as applicable (collectively, the "Land"). 1.2. The Improvements. All improvements located on the Land, including, but not limited to, the Facilities, and all other structures, systems, fixtures and utilities associated with, and utilized in, the ownership and operation of the Facilities (all such improvements being collectively referred to as the "Improvements"). 1.3. Intangible Property. All other interest, if any, of Seller or Current Owner, as applicable, in and to the Land and the Improvements or pertaining thereto and any and all intangible property of every kind and character owned or utilized by Seller or Current Owner, as applicable, in connection with the ownership and operation of the Facilities (collectively, the "Intangibles"), including, without limitation, any and all of the following: (i) the interest, if any, of Seller or Current Owner, as applicable, in the identity or business of the Facilities as a going concern, including without limitation, any names or trade names by which the Facilities or any part thereof may be known, and all registrations for such names, if any; excluding, however, the name Trans Healthcare, THI, Millennium and derivations thereof; (ii) to the extent assignable or transferable, the interest, if any, of Seller or Current Owner, as applicable, in and to each and 2
every bond, guaranty and warranty concerning the Improvements, including, without limitation, any roofing, air conditioning, heating, elevator or other bond, guaranty and warranty relating to the construction, maintenance or replacement of the Improvements or any portion thereof; (iii) the interest of Seller (or Current Owner, as applicable) in all guaranties and warranties given to Seller (or Current Owner, as applicable) that have not expired (either on a "claims made" or "occurrences" basis) in connection with the operation, construction, improvement, alteration or repair of the Land or the Improvements; and (iv) to the extent permitted by applicable law, the interest, if any, of Seller or Current Owner, as applicable, in and to those certain Permits (as hereinafter defined) that are specifically described on Schedule 3 attached hereto as "Assumed Permits" (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Assumed Permits"). For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Permits" shall mean any and all licenses, permits, accreditations, approvals and certificates used in or relating to the ownership, occupancy or operation of all or any part of the Facilities that are held, issued to or controlled by Seller, Current Owner or Current Operator, including, without limitation, any permit, license, accreditation, Certificate of Need (as hereinafter defined) or other approval necessary under applicable federal, state or local law in order to permit the operation of the Facilities as healthcare facilities. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Certificate of Need" shall mean a certificate of need or similar permit or approval (not including conventional building permits) from a governmental authority related to the construction and/or operation of any Facility for the use of a specified number of beds in a nursing facility, assisted living facility and/or rehabilitation hospital, or alteration of any such Facility or modification of services provided at such Facility. Notwithstanding anything contained herein the contrary, all Certificates of Need shall constitute Assumed Permits that will be assigned to Buyer at Closing by Seller, Current Owner or Current Operator, as applicable, if and to the extent permitted to be held by an owner of a healthcare facility that is not an operator thereof under applicable law (it being the intention of Buyer and Seller that any and all Certificates of Need be issued to, held in the name of and owned by Buyer from and after Closing if and to the extent permitted under applicable law). Each Facility, together with the Land, Improvements, Intangibles and Assumed Permits associated therewith being individually referred to as a "Project." 1.4. Current Owner Projects. Buyer, THC, Seller, Current Owner and all of the Seller Parties hereby acknowledge and agree that: (i) Seller has agreed to cause Current Owner to, and Current Owner has agreed to, sell, transfer, convey and assign the Current Owner Projects (as hereinafter defined), and only the Current Owner Projects as herein described, to Buyer on and subject to the terms and conditions contained herein; (ii) Seller has agreed, subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Millennium Agreement and in the Contract Right Assignment, to assume and accept from Current Owner (or to cause the Operators to assume and accept from Current Owner), certain liabilities and obligations related to the Current Owner Projects that Buyer has not agreed to assume and accept hereunder, which liabilities and obligations shall not be conveyed to Buyer hereunder or pursuant to any conveyance documentation delivered in connection with this Agreement, including, but not limited to, the Assumed Liabilities (as defined in the Millennium Agreement), any indebtedness described on Schedule 2.3(d) to the Millennium Agreement, any liabilities relative to patient deposits, any and all liabilities associated with the conduct of the Business (as defined in the Millennium Agreement) and liability for the reimbursement, recapture or refund of over payments under Medicare (as hereinafter defined) and Medicaid (as hereinafter defined) (collectively, such 3
liabilities and obligations, the "Operator Liabilities"); (iii) Current Owner has agreed to sell, transfer, convey and assign to the Operators, and the Operators have agreed to assume and accept, the Operator Liabilities pursuant to, and in accordance with, the Millennium Agreement; (iv) Seller, Current Owner or the applicable Current Operator (as necessary) has agreed to (x) sell, transfer, convey and assign to the applicable Operators those of the Operator Licenses (as hereinafter defined) or Provider Agreements (as hereinafter defined) identified on Schedule 3 attached hereto as the "Transferred Operator Permits" as of Closing (except for those Assigned Interest Operators (as hereinafter defined) with respect to which the Operator Licenses or Provider Agreements shall remain with the Assigned Interest Operators); and (y) from and after Closing, allow the applicable Operators to rely upon, employ and otherwise use those of the Operator Licenses and Provider Agreements identified on Schedule 3 attached hereto as the "Transition Permits," until such time as the applicable Operators have obtained all of the Operator Approvals (as hereinafter defined) necessary for the operation of the Facilities in the ordinary course from and after Closing; and (v) Current Owner has agreed to assign and transfer to Seller or an affiliate of Seller all of the membership interests in and to the Current Operators identified as Millennium Health and Rehabilitation Center of Forestville, LLC and Millennium Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center of Ellicott City, LLC (the "Assigned Interest Operators") such that the Assigned Interest Operators may continue operations at the applicable Facilities pursuant to the existing Operators Licenses, which shall be deemed Transferred Operator Permits or Transaction Permits as necessary and appropriate. Current Owner and the Seller Parties hereby agree that, notwithstanding anything contained herein or in the Millennium Agreement to the contrary, Buyer shall not assume, accept or undertake, or otherwise be liable for, and Current Owner hereby forever and irrevocably releases and discharges Buyer and the Buyer Indemnified Parties from liability with respect to, the Operator Liabilities, regardless of the period to which such Operator Liabilities relate. From and after Closing, Current Owner and the Seller Parties understand, consent and agree that Buyer (and its successors and assigns) shall have the right to rely upon, enforce and benefit from any and all rights, title and interest of THC or Seller in, to and under the Millennium Agreement with respect to the Current Owner Projects, including, but not limited to, any representations, warranties, covenants, and indemnities made by Current Owner or any Seller Parties to and with respect to the Current Owner Projects (the "Assigned Rights"); provided, however, that the foregoing shall be without limitation upon the right of THC or Seller to rely upon, enforce and benefit from the Assigned Rights. The Assigned Rights shall include, but not be limited to, the right to rely upon and enforce the indemnity provided by the Sellers (as defined in the Millennium Agreement) to and for the benefit of THC pursuant to Section 11.2 of the Millennium Agreement and the non-competition covenants and undertakings made by the Seller Parties pursuant to Section 6.5 of the Millennium Agreement; provided, however, that Buyer and the Buyer Indemnified Parties shall not have the right to draw upon and benefit from the escrowed funds deposited by Current Owner and the Seller Parties unless Buyer or its successor-in-interest has required the Operational Transfer (as defined in the Lease) contemplated by the Lease. At Closing, THC shall sell, transfer, convey and assign to Buyer (and its successors and assigns), in form acceptable to Buyer, any and all Assigned Rights (the "Contract Right Assignment"). The Contract Right Assignment shall be executed by Current Owner and the Seller Parties for purposes of consenting to, and acknowledging, Buyer's (and its successors' and assigns') right to rely thereon and the terms of this Section 1.4. The Contract Right Assignment shall contain an (i) indemnity (in form and substance acceptable to Buyer) from THC to and for the benefit of Buyer from and against any and all Losses resulting from the 4
Operator Liabilities; and (ii) affidavit from Current Owner confirming that the sale of the Current Owner Projects is not subject to, and does not subject Buyer to, liability for any bulk sales obligations under applicable law and an indemnity for Losses suffered by Buyer in connection with the foregoing. Current Owner and the Seller Parties have executed this Agreement for the limited purpose of acknowledging their agreement to the terms of this Section 1.4. Buyer, Current Owner and the Seller Parties shall execute such instruments, agreements, conveyance documents and assignments as are reasonably requested by the others to effectuate the interest of this Section 1.4. The terms of this Section 1.4 shall survive Closing and the delivery of any conveyance documentation. 1.5. Excluded Liabilities. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Agreement, Buyer does not hereby agree to assume, pay, perform, satisfy or discharge any liability or obligation of Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator existing on the Closing Date or arising out of any transactions entered into, or any state of facts existing, prior to the Closing Date (the "Excluded Liabilities"), and Seller agrees to pay and satisfy when due all of the Excluded Liabilities. The term "Excluded Liabilities" shall include, without limitation, the following: (i) any liabilities or obligations of Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator relating to employee benefits or compensation arrangements of any nature; (ii) any liability or obligation of Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator for breach of contract, personal injury or property damage (whether based on negligence, breach of warranty, strict liability or any other theory) caused by, arising out of or resulting from, directly or indirectly, any alleged or actual acts or omissions; (iii) any liability or obligation of the Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator for money borrowed; (iv) any amounts due, claimed or becoming due to Medicare, Medicaid or any other health care reimbursement or payment intermediary, including, but not limited to, any recapture, adjustment, overpayment, penalty assessment or any other financial obligation or charge, including but limited to those arising from any adjustments or reductions in Medicare or Medicaid reimbursement; (v) any Environmental Liability (as hereinafter defined); and (vi) any and all other liabilities and obligations of every kind of Seller, Current Owner and any Current Operator incurred in connection with, or arising by reason of, their ownership or operation of the Property prior to the Closing. 2. PURCHASE PRICE. 2.1. Purchase Price Formula. The total purchase price (the "Purchase Price") to be paid to Seller by Buyer shall be equal to Fifty-Three Million and No/100 Dollars 5
($53,000,000.00). In calculating the Purchase Price, no portion of the Purchase Price is allocated to the Intangibles. 2.2. Transaction Closing Costs. For purposes of this Agreement, "Transaction Closing Costs" shall mean any and all reasonable costs and expenses paid or incurred by Buyer in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, including, but not limited to: (i) any and all actual costs associated with Buyer's due diligence inspection of the Property; (ii) any actual Expenses (as defined in the Commitment Letter) for which Seller is required to reimburse Buyer pursuant to the Commitment Letter that have not previously been paid or reimbursed by Seller; (iii) any costs and expenses paid or incurred by Buyer to negotiate, execute and deliver this Agreement, the Term Sheet or the Commitment Letter; and (iv) any costs and expenses paid or incurred by Buyer that are similar to any of the foregoing. The Transaction Closing Costs shall be paid out of the net proceeds of the Purchase Price payable by Buyer to Seller at Closing to the applicable third party service provider (i.e. the Title Company (as hereinafter defined), Buyer's attorneys, the surveyor, etc.) if and to the extent such amounts have not been previously paid or reimbursed by Seller. The obligation of Seller to pay (or reimburse Buyer for) any and all Transaction Closing Costs shall survive the termination of this Agreement and Closing and the delivery of any conveyance documentation, and, to the extent that Buyer identifies any Transaction Closing Costs that were not paid by Seller at or prior to Closing or the termination of this Agreement, Seller shall reimburse Buyer for any such unpaid Transaction Closing Costs promptly, and in any event within ten (10) business days, after the presentation of invoices therefore by Buyer to Seller. Delinquent amounts owing from Seller to Buyer hereunder shall bear interest at the per annum rate then announced by Citigroup, N.A. as its "prime" or "reference" rate plus four percent (4%) (the "Delinquency Rate"). Except as otherwise provided in Section 12.2, if this Agreement is terminated, other than as a result of a breach by Buyer, Seller shall remain obligated to, and shall reimburse Buyer for any and all Transaction Closing Costs incurred by Buyer. 2.3. Capital Expenditure Holdback. 2.3.1. Capital Repair Notice. As part of Buyer's due diligence inspection of the Property, Buyer has conducted certain engineering and environmental studies and inspections of the Improvements and certain regulatory compliance reviews of the Facilities. Attached hereto as Exhibit B is a description of the engineering reports, a list of repair items (the "Capital Repair Notice") describing any and all of the following repairs, replacements or cures that are necessary at the Improvements to place them in compliance with laws and in a first class condition and working order (collectively, the "Capital Repair Items"): (i) repairs or replacements of physical defects or deficiencies in the Improvements or the systems serving the Improvements (capital or otherwise), including, but not limited to, deferred maintenance items, roof defects and parking lot repairs; (ii) any and all repairs, maintenance, replacements or installations necessary to cause the Improvements to comply with any and all governmental or quasi-governmental laws, ordinances, rules or regulations, including, but not limited to, zoning laws; and (iii) any and all repairs, maintenance or replacements necessary to cause the Improvements to comply with or satisfy the requirements of any Health Departments (as hereinafter defined), Permits, Operator Licenses and Provider Agreements. For purposes of this Agreement, "Health Departments" shall mean departments of health and/or any governmental, quasi-governmental or regulatory authorities of each of the states where the Facilities are located 6
which have jurisdiction over the licensing, ownership and/or operations of the Facilities as healthcare facilities. Buyer and Seller have agreed that the amount necessary to perform all of the Capital Repair Items from and after Closing is $70,545 ("Capital Expenditure Amount"). The "Capital Expenditure Holdback" is $88,181, consisting of the amount equal to the sum of the Capital Expenditure Amount and an amount equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the Capital Expenditure Amount. The Capital Expenditure Holdback has been specifically allocated among the Capital Repair Items (each such allocation, an "Allowance Amount") as set forth on Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof. 2.3.2. Capital Expenditure Holdback. At Closing, Buyer shall deduct and retain from Seller's net proceeds of the Purchase Price the Capital Expenditure Holdback. From and after Closing, Seller shall cause the Operators, as tenants pursuant to the Lease (as hereinafter defined), to act diligently and in good faith to cure, repair, maintain or replace, as applicable, the Capital Repair Items. Buyer shall reimburse Seller for the cost incurred by the applicable Operator to cure, repair or replace any Capital Repair Item from the Capital Expenditure Holdback up to an amount not to exceed the applicable Allowance Amount for any Capital Repair Item or the amount of the Capital Expenditure Holdback for all Capital Repair Items. Buyer shall provide such reimbursement to Seller only at such time as the Capital Repair Item has been completed to Buyer's reasonable satisfaction and Seller has presented evidence (in the form of final lien waivers from all contractors and subcontractors) that any portion of the cost of such Capital Repair Item required to be paid by Seller hereunder has been paid in full. Any cure, repair or replacement of a Capital Repair Item at any Facility shall be performed by the applicable Operator subject to, and in accordance with, the terms of the Lease applicable to such activities (i.e. the sections of the Lease describing repairs and maintenance and alterations). If the cost incurred by any Operator to complete a Capital Repair Item exceeds the applicable Allowance Amount, such excess cost shall be paid by Seller without contribution from Buyer or the applicable Operator. Any Capital Repair Item shall be repaired, cured, maintained or replaced in a good, workmanlike and lien free fashion. If any part of the Capital Expenditure Holdback has not been applied by Buyer towards the cost of Capital Repair Items after the completion of all Capital Repair Items in accordance with the requirements of this Section 2.3, Buyer shall promptly pay such amounts to Seller after Seller's written request therefor. If Seller has not caused the Operators to repair, maintain, cure or replace the Capital Repair Items within twelve (12) months after Closing, Buyer shall have the right to repair, maintain, replace or cure such Capital Repair Items on behalf of such Operators and at Seller's sole cost. Any costs so incurred by Buyer shall first be deducted from the Capital Expenditure Holdback. If the cost incurred by Buyer to perform any such Capital Repair Items exceed the amounts remaining in the Capital Expenditure Holdback, Seller shall promptly, and in any event within ten (10) business days, reimburse Buyer for such excess costs. Delinquent amounts owing from Seller to Buyer pursuant to this Section 2.3 shall bear interest at the Delinquency Rate. 2.3.3. THC Responsibility/Survival. THC shall be liable, on a joint and several basis, for all of the obligations of Seller set forth in this Section 2.3. The terms of this Section 2.3 shall survive Closing and the delivery of any conveyance documentation. 2.4. General. Provided that all conditions precedent to Buyer's obligations to close that are set forth in this Agreement ("Conditions Precedent") have been satisfied and 7
fulfilled, or waived in writing by Buyer, the Purchase Price shall be paid to Seller at Closing, plus or minus prorations and other adjustments hereunder and less the Transaction Closing Costs and the Capital Expenditure Holdback, by federal wire transfer of immediately available funds. The portion of the Purchase Price allocated to each Project is set forth on Exhibit C attached hereto and made a part hereof (each an "Allocated Purchase Price"). 3. CLOSING. The purchase and sale contemplated herein shall be consummated at a closing ("Closing") to take place at the New York offices of Dechert, 30 Rockefeller Center, New York, New York 10112, or a location as otherwise agreed by the parties, on the basis of a "New York-style" closing with a representative of the Title Company in attendance. The Closing shall occur prior to the close of business on November 1, 2002, or at such other time as the parties may agree upon in writing (the "Closing Date"). The Closing shall be effective as of 12:01 A.M. on the Closing Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the risk of loss of all or any portion of the Property shall be borne by Seller up to and including the actual time of the Closing and wire transfer of the Purchase Price to Seller, and thereafter by Buyer, subject, however, to the terms and conditions of Section 11 below. 4. TITLE AND SURVEY MATTERS. 4.1. Title. At Closing, Seller agrees to deliver (or cause to be delivered) to Buyer for each Project a Special Warranty Deed (or its equivalent in the State in which the Project is located) (collectively, the "Deeds"), in recordable form, conveying each Project to Buyer or Buyer's assignee or designee, free and clear of all liens, claims and encumbrances except for the Permitted Exceptions (as hereinafter defined). Buyer has ordered and obtained, at Seller's sole cost, a commitment (the "Title Commitment"), issued by First American Title Insurance Company (the "Title Company"), and ordered from the National Title Services office of the Title Company in Chicago, Illinois: 30 North LaSalle Street, Suite 310, Chicago, Illinois 60602, Attn: Greg Chaparro (phone (312) 917-7222, facsimile (312) 553-0480, email gchaparro@firstam.com) for an owner's title insurance policy (the "Title Policy"), ALTA Policy Form B-1992, or other form of policy reasonably acceptable to Buyer, in the full amount of the Purchase Price insuring Buyer as the fee simple owner of the Land and the Improvements. As a Condition Precedent to Buyer's obligation to proceed to Closing, the Title Company shall issue the Title Policy (which may be in the form of a mark-up reasonably acceptable to Buyer, or a so-called "pro-forma" of the Title Policy executed by the Title Company) to Buyer at Closing insuring Buyer as the fee simple owner of the Land and the Improvements in the full amount of the Purchase Price, with all standard and general printed exceptions deleted so as to afford full "extended form coverage," together with all of the endorsements, to the extent available in the jurisdiction in which the Project is located, set forth on Exhibit E attached hereto and made a part hereof (collectively, the "Endorsements"). For purposes of this Agreement, "Permitted Exceptions" shall mean with respect to each Project: (A) real estate taxes, assessments and other governmental levies, fees or charges imposed with respect to such Project which are not due and payable as of the Closing Date; (B) zoning, building codes and other land use laws regulating the use or occupancy of such Project or the activities conducted thereon which are imposed by any governmental authority having jurisdiction over such Project which are not violated by the current use or occupancy of such Project or the operation of the Business, or any violation which would not have a material adverse effect on Seller's business; (C) easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions and matters affecting title to such Project that were set forth in the Title 8
Commitment that have not been deleted and removed from the Title Policy; and (D) those matters disclosed by the Surveys (as hereinafter defined). 4.2. Survey. Seller has ordered, at Seller's sole cost and expense, as-built surveys of all of the Land and the Improvements (collectively, the "Surveys"), prepared by surveyors duly registered in the State in which the various Projects are located. The Surveys have been certified as of a date within thirty (30) days of the Closing by said surveyors as having been prepared in accordance with the most currently available minimum detail and classification requirements of the land survey standards of the American Land Title Association. 5. SELLER'S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES. Each of Seller and THC represents and warrants to Buyer that the following matters are true as of the Closing Date: 5.1. Ownership. Seller is the owner in fee simple of the Projects identified as numbers 1 through 4 on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof. Current Owner is the fee simple owner of the Projects identified as numbers 5 through 7 on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Current Owner Projects"). 5.2. No Assignment. During the period commencing as of the execution of the Term Sheet by Seller through and including the Closing Date (the "Executory Period"), Seller has not (nor has Current Owner) assigned, alienated, liened, encumbered or otherwise transferred all or any part of the Property or any interest, easement or right of way therein. Without limitation or of the foregoing, during the Executory Period, Seller has not (nor has Seller permitted Current Owner to) enter into any agreement, arrangement, letter of intent or understanding, formal or informal, for the sale, transfer or conveyance of all or any portion of the Property, conditional or otherwise. 5.3. Change in Conditions. During the Executory Period, Seller has, to the extent Seller has obtained knowledge thereof, promptly notified Buyer of any material change in any condition with respect to the Property, or of the occurrence of any event or circumstance, that makes any representation or warranty of (i) Seller to Buyer under this Agreement had the same been made at any time during the Executory Period or (ii) Current Owner to Seller or THC under the Millennium Agreement, materially untrue or misleading, or any covenant of Seller under this Agreement had the same been applicable at any time during the Executory Period (or Current Owner under the Millennium Agreement), incapable or less likely to be performed. During the Executory Period, and continuing through the Closing Date, Seller has promptly, after its receipt, delivery, filing or preparation, as the case may be, delivered to Buyer true and complete copies of: (i) any Operator Reports (as hereinafter defined) received or prepared by Seller (Current Owner or any Current Operator); (ii) any reports, filings, applications, or petitions made by Seller (or Current Owner or any Current Operator) to any governmental or quasi-governmental authority (including any Health Departments) with respect to any Facility; (iii) any material written correspondence or notices to or from Seller, Current Owner, any Current Operator or governmental or quasi-governmental authority (including any Health Departments) with respect to any Facility; and (iv) any other document, information, material, notice or comparable report or item that constitutes a Document but either did not exist, was not discovered or was not in Seller's possession or reasonable control as of the date of the Term Sheet. 9
5.4. No Conveyance. During the Executory Period, neither Seller, THC, nor any of their respective affiliates, agents, representatives, brokers or employees (collectively, the "Seller Representatives"), have: (i) sold, transferred, conveyed, assigned, liened, financed, encumbered or otherwise disposed of, directly or indirectly, all or any portion of the Property, THC or Seller (or any assets of THC or Seller other than in the ordinary course) other than in connection with the Loan Transaction; or (ii) solicited, negotiated, entertained proposal for, or executed and entered into any agreement, arrangement or understanding for (formal or informal, conditional or otherwise): (x) the sale, transfer or conveyance of the Property, THC or Seller (or any assets of THC or Seller other in the ordinary course) to any person or entity, or (y) the financing of the Property, THC or Seller other than in connection with the Loan Transaction. Without limitation of the foregoing, during the Executory Period, neither Seller nor THC has consented to any of the foregoing activities on the part of Current Owner or with respect to the Current Owner Projects. 5.5. Provider Agreements. During the Executory Period, Seller has not (nor has Seller permitted Current Owner or any Current Operator to), other than in accordance with normal and commercially reasonable business practices, changed the terms of any Provider Agreements or altered the terms of its (or their) participation in Medicare (as hereinafter defined), Medicaid (as hereinafter defined) or any Third Party Payor Programs (as hereinafter defined). During the Executory Period, Seller has (and Current Owner and the Current Operators have) timely filed any and all Operator Reports and otherwise complied with the terms of the Operator Licenses and Provider Agreements. 5.6. Documents. Prior to the date hereof, Seller has delivered to Buyer true and complete copies of all of the material documents, Permits, Provider Agreements, Operator Licenses, Certificates of Need, reports, studies, materials and other information described on Exhibit D attached hereto and made a part hereof (collectively, the "Documents") in its possession or reasonable control. To the best of Seller's knowledge, none of the Documents contain any untrue statement of a fact or omit to state a fact necessary to make the statement of fact contained therein misleading in any material respect. To the best of Seller's knowledge, the Documents represent all of the materials, reports, agreements, studies, books, records, documents, Certificates of Need, Permits, Provider Agreements, instruments and comparable information necessary for Buyer to make an informed decision concerning its acquisition of the Property. 5.7. Defaults. Neither Seller, any Current Operator, nor Current Owner have received any written notice alleging that Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operators are in default under any of the Permits, Provider Agreements, or Certificates of Need, nor does there exist a material default under any of the Permits, Provider Agreements, or Certificates of Need. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Provider Agreements" shall mean any provider agreements held by or issued to Seller, Current Owner or the Current Operators under which the Facilities are eligible to receive payment under Title XVIII ("Medicare"), Title XIX ("Medicaid") or any other governmental or quasi-governmental third party payor programs or any private or quasi-private healthcare reimbursement or private payor programs (including so-called "HMO" and "PPO" programs) ("Third Party Payor Programs") as well as any other agreement, arrangement, program or understanding with any federal, state or local governmental agency or organization or private organization pursuant to which the Facilities qualify for 10
payment or reimbursement for medical or therapeutic care or other goods or services rendered or supplied to any resident. 5.8. Physical Condition. Except for the Capital Repair Items, (i) the Improvements contain no material structural defects, (ii) the Land and the Improvements are free of insect and rodent infestation, (iii) the roofs of the Improvements are free of leaks or other defects, (iv) all mechanical and utility systems servicing the Improvements (including, but not limited to, the heating, ventilation and air conditioning systems and all components thereof) are in good condition and proper working order, free of material defects and are in compliance with all applicable laws and codes; and (v) the Improvements are free of mold. 5.9. Utilities. To the best of Seller's knowledge, all water, sewer, gas, electric, telephone, drainage and other utility equipment, facilities and services required by law or necessary for the operation of the Facilities are installed and connected pursuant to valid permits; are adequate to service the Facilities; and are in good operating condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted. Neither Seller nor Current Owner has received any written notice advising or alleging of the existence of any fact or condition that would or could result in the termination or impairment of the furnishing of service to the Facilities of water, sewer, gas, electric, telephone, drainage or other such utility services. 5.10. Employees. Seller and Current Owner have no employees at the Facilities. 5.11. Compliance with Laws and Codes. The Facilities, and the use and operation thereof, are in substantial compliance with all applicable municipal and other governmental laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, codes, licenses, permits and authorizations (including the Permits and the Provider Agreements). 5.12. Litigation. Except as disclosed on Exhibit F attached hereto and made a part hereof, there are no pending or threatened, judicial, municipal or administrative proceedings affecting the Property, or in which Seller, the Current Owner or the Current Operators are or will be a party by reason of Seller's and Current Owner's ownership or Seller's or the Current Operators' operation of the Property or any portion thereof, including, without limitation, proceedings for or involving collections, condemnation, eminent domain, alleged building code or environmental or zoning violations, or personal injuries or property damage alleged to have occurred on the Land or the Improvements or by reason of the condition, use of, or operations on, the Land or the Improvements. No attachments, execution proceedings, assignments for the benefit of creditors, insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization or other proceedings are pending or threatened against Seller or against Current Owner or any Current Operators nor are any of such proceedings contemplated by Seller or by Current Owner or any Current Operators. 5.13. Insurance. Seller, or the Current Owner, as applicable, now has in full force and effect the insurance coverages relating to each Project described on Exhibit G attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Insurance Policies"). Neither Seller, nor Current Owner nor any Current Operator have received any written notice from any insurance carrier alleging any defects or inadequacies with respect to any Project that, if not corrected, would result in termination of insurance coverage or increase in the normal and customary cost of any or all of 11
the Insurance Policies. For each Facility, Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator, as applicable, have made reserves for expenses relating to malpractice or professional liability claims that are adequate and sufficient in the exercise of commercially reasonable judgment and normal commercial practice, which reserves have been approved by their respective independent auditors and insurance actuaries and are accurately and completely reflected in their most recent Financial Statements and Operating Statements. None of Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator have been advised, orally or in writing, formally or informally, by their respective insurance carriers, any reinsurance providers, their independent accountants, any governmental or quasi-governmental authority or any third party payor program providers of any pending, threatened or contemplated increase in any such reserves for expenses relating to malpractice or professional liability claims, nor are any proceedings, investigations, analysis or reviews of such reserves for malpractice or professional liability pending, threatened or contemplated. The Documents include accurate and complete copies of any and all: (i) actuarial reports, studies, reviews and analysis prepared by or on behalf of Seller, Current Owner, any Current Operator or their respective insurance carries, quarterly and otherwise, concerning Seller's, Current Owner's or any Current Operator's reserves for expenses relating to malpractice or professional liability claims and malpractice or professional liability insurance; and (ii) material information, analysis, correspondence to and from Seller, Current Owner, any Current Operator and their respective insurance carriers, reinsurance providers, accountants, any governmental or quasi-governmental authorities and any third party payor program providers concerning Seller's, Current Owner's or Current Operator's reserves for expenses relating to malpractice or professional liability claims and malpractice and professional liability insurance. 5.14. Financial Information, Absence of Any Undisclosed Liabilities. 5.14.1. Financial Information. The Operating Statements and the Financial Statements (each as defined in Exhibit D attached hereto and made a part hereof) delivered by Seller to Buyer are accurate and complete copies thereof and represent all of the Operating Statements and Financial Statements prepared and relied upon by Seller, Current Operator or the Current Owner in the conduct of their respective businesses with respect to the periods covered therein. The Operating Statements and the Financial Statements accurately set forth the results of the operations of the Facilities for the periods covered. The Operating Statements have been prepared in accordance with sound property management practices consistently applied during the periods described therein and the Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied during the periods described therein, and fairly present the assets and liabilities and the results from operations of the Facilities. There has been no material adverse change in the financial conditions or operation of the Facilities since the periods covered by the Operating Statements and the Financial Statements. Neither Seller, Current Owner nor any Current Operator has any liabilities or obligations, and there is no basis for any assertion against Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator of any liability or obligations, except those liabilities or obligations which are (a) fully reflected or adequately reserved against in the Financial Statements, (b) disclosed in this Agreement or in the schedules hereto, or (c) incurred in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice from and after the date of the last Operating Statement, which in the aggregate are not material to Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator, as applicable. 12
5.14.2. Absence of Certain Changes. Since December 31, 2001, Seller, Current Owner and the Current Operators, have operated the Facilities in the ordinary course, consistent with past practice, and none of such parties have: (i) suffered any adverse change or any event, occurrence, development or state of circumstances or facts which has had or could reasonably be expected to result in or have an adverse effect on the ownership and operation of any Facility; (ii) incurred, assumed or guaranteed any indebtedness for money borrowed, or incurred any liabilities or obligations other than in the ordinary course of business; (iii) paid, discharged or satisfied any claim, lien or liability, other than those: (a) which were reflected or reserved against in the Financial Statements, and which will be paid, discharged or satisfied in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice or (b) which were incurred and paid, discharged or satisfied since the date of the last applicable Financial Statement in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; (iv) written down the value of any inventory, or written off as uncollectible any notes, accounts or other receivables or any portion thereof, except in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practice; (v) leased or acquired any capital asset other than in the ordinary course of business; (vi) entered into any transaction with any of their respective affiliates, other than in the ordinary course of, and pursuant to the reasonable requirements of, the business at the Facilities and upon terms that are no less favorable than could be obtained in a comparable transaction with a person who was not such an affiliate; or (vii) agreed to, or made any commitment to, do any of the foregoing. 5.15. Re-Zoning. Except as set forth in the Documents, the use of each Facility, together with the ancillary uses thereto, are permitted under the applicable municipal zoning ordinances, or special exceptions, variances or conditional uses thereto, and the Facilities comply with all conditions, restrictions and requirements of such zoning ordinances and amendments thereto. Neither Seller nor Current Owner are a party to nor is there any threatened proceeding for the rezoning of the Land or the Improvements or any portion thereof, or the taking of any other action by governmental authorities that would have an adverse or material impact on the value of the Property or use thereof. 5.16. Authority. Schedule 4 attached hereto and made a part hereof sets forth a list of all of the individuals and entities that (i) are affiliated with, controlled by, or under common control with (either directly or indirectly) Seller, THC, Current Owner or any Current Operator; (ii) have an interest (either directly or indirectly) in the Property; (iii) have interest (either directly or indirectly) in the Property that will be pledged as collateral in connection with the Loan Transaction; and (iv) are guarantors, affiliated management companies, or general partners (or managing members, as applicable) of Seller, THC, Current Owner or any Current Operator (collectively, "Seller Related Parties"), and holders of controlling interests in the Seller Related Parties. The execution and delivery of this Agreement by Seller, and the performance of this Agreement by Seller, have been duly authorized by Seller, and this Agreement is binding on Seller and enforceable against Seller in accordance with its terms. No consent of any creditor, investor, judicial or administrative body, governmental authority, Health Department or other governmental body or agency, or other party to such execution, delivery and performance by Seller is required. Neither the execution of this Agreement nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby will (i) result in a breach of, default under, or acceleration of, any agreement to which Seller is a party or by which Seller or the Property are bound; or (ii) violate any restriction, court order, permit, agreement or other legal obligation to which Seller and/or any Project is subject. 13
5.17. Real Estate Taxes. Neither Seller nor Current Owner has received any written notice of any proposed increase in the assessed valuation of the Land or the Improvements other than increases in the assessed valuation of the Land or the Improvements occurring in the ordinary course to all properties in the jurisdictions which an applicable Project is located. There is not now pending, and Seller agrees that it will not, without the prior written consent of Buyer (which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), institute (or consent to the institution by Current Owner) prior to the Closing Date, any proceeding or application for a reduction in the real estate tax assessment of the Land or the Improvements or any other relief for any tax year. There are no outstanding written agreements with attorneys or consultants with respect to real estate taxes that will be binding on Buyer or any Project after the Closing. Other than the amounts disclosed by the tax bills, no special assessments of any kind (special, bond or otherwise) are or have been levied against any Project, or any portion thereof, that are outstanding or unpaid, and, none will be levied prior to Closing. 5.18. Operator Matters. 5.18.1. Operator Licenses and Provider Agreements. Seller, Current Owner or the Current Operators, as applicable, have been issued and are in good standing with respect to any and all permits, licenses, regulatory approvals, approvals, Certificates of Need, accreditations and comparable authorizations (collectively, "Operator Licenses") from all applicable governmental and quasi-governmental authorities (including, but not limited to, any Health Department) necessary or advisable for the use, operation and maintenance of the applicable Facility and the conduct of Seller's or the Current Operator's business therein. Seller and each Current Operator has obtained and is in good standing with respect to any and all Provider Agreements under which the Seller, the applicable Current Operator and/or Facility is entitled to receive payment or reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid or any Third Party Payor Programs. None of Seller, Current Owner or the Current Operators are in violation of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation, any Operator Licenses or any Provider Agreements. None of Seller, Current Owner or the Current Operators are the subject of any investigation, proceeding or examination by any Health Department or other governmental or quasi-governmental authority commission, board or agency concerning an actual or alleged violation of any laws, ordinances, rules or regulations, any Operator Licenses or any Provider Agreements. The Operator Licenses and the Provider Agreements (i) may not be, and have not been and will not be, transferred to any location other than the Facilities; (ii) are not and will not be pledged as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness that will not be released at Closing; and (iii) are held and will remain free from restrictions or known conflicts which would materially impair the use or operation of the Facilities and shall not be provisional, probationary or restricted in any way. At Closing, the foregoing representation and warranty shall be true and current with respect to the Facilities, Seller, Current Owner, all Current Operators and all of the Operators which will be tenants under the Lease. 5.18.2. Litigation. Neither Seller, Current Owner nor any Current Operator is involved in any litigation, proceeding, or investigation (by or with any person, resident, Health Department or governmental or quasi-governmental authority) which if determined or resolved adversely would have a material adverse impact on the conduct by the Seller, Current Owner or the applicable Current Operator of its business. Other than regularly scheduled audits and reviews, no validation review, peer review or program integrity review 14
related to any Facility or Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator has been conducted by any entity, commission, board or agency in connection with the Medicare program, and no such reviews are schedule, pending or threatened against or affecting any Facility, Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator. At Closing, the foregoing representation and warranty shall be true and current with respect to the Facilities, Seller, Current Owner, all Current Operators and all of the Operators which will be tenants under the Lease. 5.18.3. Licensing Matters. With respect to each Facility, the Operator Licenses and the Provider Agreements represent all of the licenses, permits, approvals, and provider agreements necessary in order to operate the Facilities as healthcare facilities, and receive regular reimbursement for services rendered under Medicare and Medicaid, and, no other material franchise, license, permit, order or approval of any governmental or quasi-governmental authority is material to or necessary for Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator to receive regular reimbursement for services rendered under Medicare and Medicaid. Neither Seller, Current Owner, any Current Operators nor any of their respective representatives, officers, directors, agents or employees have been disqualified from participating in either the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Without limitation of the foregoing, none of Seller, Current, Owner, any Current Operators or their respective officers, directors or managing employees or other employees or agents has engaged in any activities which are prohibited under criminal law, or are cause for civil penalties or mandatory or permissive exclusion from Medicare, or any other state health care program. There is no, and there shall continue to be no, threatened, existing or pending revocation, suspension, termination, probation, restriction, limitation or nonrenewal affecting Seller, Current Owners, the Current Operators or the Facilities of any participation or Provider Agreements with Medicare, Medicaid or any Third Party Payor Programs to which Seller, Current Owners or the Current Operators presently or at any time hereafter are subject. All Medicaid, Medicare and private insurance cost reports and financial reports submitted by Seller Current Owner or any Current Operators are and will be materially accurate and complete and have not been and will not be misleading in any material respects. At Closing, the foregoing representation and warranty shall be true and current with respect to the Facilities, Seller, Current Owner, any Current Operators and all of the Operators which will be tenants under the Lease. 5.18.4. Operator Reporting. Seller has delivered to Buyer accurate and complete copies of all of the census information concerning the number of licensed beds occupied by bona fide residents, monthly financial statements and other reports, materials and information concerning Seller, Current Owner and each Current Operator's business operations and compliance with laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, Operator Licenses and Provider Agreements that are submitted by Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator, for all of the Facilities, including, but not limited to, Medicare and Medicaid cost reports relating to the Facility (the "Operator Reports") for the periods described in Exhibit D attached hereto and made a part hereof. Except as may otherwise be disclosed in the Documents, the Operator Reports are accurate in all material respects. All materials reports, documents and notices, including, without limitation, all Medicare cost reports, required to be filed, maintained or furnished by Seller, Current Owner and each Current Operator to any governmental agency with respect to any Facility have been so filed, maintained or furnished. There are no defects or deficiencies to or with respect to the Facilities or any Provider Agreement cited in any survey or cost report provided, submitted or made by or to any governmental or quasi-governmental authority under Medicare, Medicaid, any Third Party Payor Program or any law, ordinance, rule 15
or regulation that remain uncured. At Closing, the representation and warranty set forth in this Section 5.18.4 shall be true and current with respect to the Facilities, Seller, any Current Operators and all of the Operators which will be tenants under the Lease. 5.18.5. No Violations. None of Seller, Current Owner, any Current Operator nor the Facilities is or will be the subject of any proceeding by any governmental agency, and no notice of any violation has been or will be issued by a governmental agency that would, directly or indirectly, or with the passage of time: (i) Impact Seller's or any Current Operator's ability to accept and/or retain patients at a Facility; or (ii) Have an adverse effect on Seller's or any Current Operator's ability to accept and/or retain patients or operate the Facilities or result in the imposition of a fine or sanction or a lower rate certification or a lower reimbursement rate for services rendered to eligible patients; or (iii) Modify, limit or annul or result in the transfer, suspension, or revocation or imposition of probationary use of any of the Operator Licenses; or (iv) Affect Seller's or any Current Operator's continued participation in Medicare, Medicaid or any Third Party Payor Programs, or any successor programs thereto, at then current rate certifications. At Closing, the foregoing representation and warranty shall be true and current with respect to the Facilities, Seller, any Current Operators and all of the Operators which will be tenants under the Lease. 5.18.6. No Facility Violations. No Facility has received a "Level A" (or equivalent) violation under Medicare or Medicaid, as applicable, and no statement of charges or deficiencies has been made or penalty enforcement action has been undertaken against the Facilities, any Current Operator, Current Owner or Seller, or against any officer or director, of any Current Operator, Current Owner or Seller by any governmental agency during the last three calendar years, and there have been no violations during the period of time in which Seller or Current Owner has owned the particular Facility which would threaten the Facilities', any Current Operator's or Seller's certification for participation in Medicare or Medicaid or any other Third Party Payors' Programs. At Closing, the foregoing representation and warranty shall be true and current with respect to the Facilities, Seller, any Current Operators and all of the Operators which will be tenants under the Lease. 5.18.7. No Reimbursement Audits or Appeals. There are no current, pending or outstanding Medicaid, Medicare or Third Party Payor Programs' reimbursement audits or appeals pending at the Facilities which (x) are not normal and customary on an annual basis in the ordinary course of business for facilities similar to the Facilities and (y) would have a material and adverse effect on the Facilities. At Closing, the foregoing representation and warranty shall be true and current with respect to the Facilities, Seller, any Current Operators and all of the Operators which will be tenants under the Lease. 5.18.8. No Recoupments Efforts. There are no current or pending Medicaid, Medicare or Third Party Payor Programs' recoupment efforts at the Facilities which 16
are (x) not normal and customary on an annual basis in the ordinary course for facilities similar to the Facilities and (y) would have a material and adverse effect on the Facilities. Neither Seller nor any Current Operator are a participant in any federal program whereby any governmental agency may have the right to recover funds by reason of the advance of federal funds. At Closing, the foregoing representation and warranty shall be true and current with respect to the Facilities, Seller, any Current Operators and all of the Operators which will be tenants under the Lease. 5.18.9. Admissions Hold. There is no suspension, ban or limitation upon the admission of patients or residents to any Facility (i) by any governmental or quasi-governmental agency having jurisdiction over the licensure or Medicare or Medicaid certification of such Facility or (ii) pursuant to any applicable law, regulation or ordinance. 5.18.10. TAGS. No state or federal regulatory agency with jurisdiction over any Facility has: (i) made a substandard quality of care determination regarding such Facility; (ii) made a determination that such Facility is not in substantial compliance with any applicable regulatory requirements; (iii) designated any portion of such Facility or the entirety of such Facility as part of a "poor performing chain"; (iv) cited deficiencies at the scope and severity of a "G", "H" or higher with respect to such Facility; or (v) taken adverse regulatory action with respect to such Facility including, without limitation, the imposing of civil money penalties. 5.19. United States Person. Seller and Current Owner are each a "United States Person" within the meaning of Section 1445(f)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and shall execute and deliver an "Entity Transferor" certification at Closing. 5.20. Other Taxes. The sale of the Property to Buyer hereunder is not subject to, and does not subject Buyer to, any liability for income tax, retail sales tax or bulk sales obligation under the law of the state in which any portion of the Property is located. 5.21. Permits. The Permits represent all of the permits, licenses, approvals, Certificates of Need, provider agreements, covenants and other comparable authorizations from governmental or quasi-governmental authorities (including, but not limited to, any Health Department) required, necessary or advisable to be issued or granted to Seller, the Current Owner or the Current Operators in connection with the operation and ownership of the Facilities under applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. Neither Current Owner, any Current Operator nor Seller is not in material violation of any Permits, nor has Seller, Current Owner or any Current Operator received any written notice alleging any material violation of any Permits. Schedule 3 contains an accurate and complete list of (i) all Permits (including any Provider Agreements and Certificates of Need), (ii) the parties to whom the same have been issued and (iii) the parties who issue such Permits. Schedule 3 attached hereto also identifies those Permits which are (i) only transferable upon receipt of consent or approval from the parties identified as having issued such Permits or (ii) not transferable. Schedule 3 attached hereto also identifies the Assumed Permits, the Transition Permits (including each party that will rely on a Transition Permit), the Transferred Operator Permits (including each party that will assume each Transferred Operator Permit) and all of the Operator Approvals (including each Operator that will receive each Operator Approval). 17
5.22. Condemnation. Neither Current Owner nor Seller has received any written notice advising it of any pending or threatened condemnation or other governmental taking proceedings affecting all or any part of the Land or the Improvements. 5.23. Agreement of Sale. Neither Seller nor any Seller Representative (as hereinafter defined) is party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (formal or informal, conditional or otherwise) for: (i) the sale, transfer, or conveyance of all or any portion of the Property or Seller (or any assets of Seller other than in the ordinary course); or (ii) the financing of the Property or Seller, except for the Millennium Agreement, the Term Sheet, the Commitment Letter, the Loan Term Sheet and the Loan Commitment Letter. 5.24. Millennium Agreement. Seller has delivered to Buyer a true, accurate and complete copy of the Millennium Agreement and any and all documents, materials, reports, agreements and comparable information provided by Current Owner or to the Seller Parties to THC or Seller with respect to the Property. THC, Current Owner and the Seller Parties have (i) complied with all terms and conditions of the Millennium Agreement; (ii) performed all of their respective obligations under the Millennium Agreement; and (iii) are not in default under the Millennium Agreement. The Millennium Agreement provides THC with the unconditional right to acquire the Current Owner Projects and Seller is not aware of any fact or condition that has occurred or failed to occur that would prevent Seller, THC or their successors and assigns from acquiring the Current Owner Projects pursuant to the Millennium Agreement. THC has the unconditional right pursuant to the Millennium Agreement to cause the Current Owner Projects to be conveyed to Buyer and leased by Seller to the Operators at Closing in accordance with this Agreement. 5.25. Environmental Matters. Except as discussed on Schedule 5.25 attached hereto. 5.25.1. No Violations. The Land and the Improvements have been and continue to be owned and operated in material compliance with all Environmental Laws (as hereinafter defined). To the best of Seller's knowledge, except for matters which have been cured and remedied in accordance with all Environmental Laws, there have been no past claims, complaints, notices, or requests for information received by Seller, Current Owner, any Current Operator, any Seller Parties or any Additional Seller Parties (as hereinafter defined) with respect to any material violation or alleged violation of any Environmental Law, any material releases of Hazardous Substances (as hereinafter defined) or material liability for any corrective or remedial action for or cleanup in each case with respect to the Land or the Improvements or any portion thereof. For purposes of this Agreement, "Additional Seller Parties" shall mean the members, partners or shareholders of Seller and Current Owner, and the offices, directors, employees, agents or duly authorized managing agents of any or all of Seller, Current Owner and their respective members, partners or shareholders. 5.25.2. Hazardous Substances Neither Seller, nor to the best of Seller's knowledge, Current Owner, any Current Operator, any Seller Parties or any Additional Seller Parties has transported, disposed of or treated, or arranged for the transportation, disposal or treatment of, any Hazardous Substances to or from the Land or the Improvements. No written notification of a material release or discharge of a Hazardous Substance has been filed by or on 18
behalf of, or received by, Seller, or, to the best of Seller's knowledge, Current Owner or any Current Operator with respect to any of the Land or the Improvements and, to the best of Seller's knowledge, none of the Land or the Improvements are listed on the National Priorities List promulgated pursuant to CERCLA or on any similar state list of sites requiring investigation or clean-up. 5.25.3. Underground Storage Tanks There are no underground storage tanks at, in, under or about the Land that do not comply in all material respects with all Environmental Laws. Neither Seller nor, to the best of Seller's knowledge, Current Owner or any Current Operator has removed any underground storage tanks from the ground. 5.25.4. Asbestos and Polychlorinated Biphenyls. To the best of Seller's knowledge, no asbestos, polychlorinated biphenyls or urea formaldehyde is or has been present at the Land or the Improvements in a manner that does not comply in all material respects with all Environmental Laws. 5.25.5. Liens There are no environmental liens on any of the Land or Improvements, and, to the best of Seller's knowledge, no governmental actions have been taken or are in process that could subject any of the Land or Improvements to such liens. 5.25.6. Notices No notice, notification, demand, request for information, citation, summons or order has been issued, no complaint has been filed, no penalty has been assessed and no investigation or review is pending or threatened by any governmental authority or other person with respect to any actual or alleged violation by Seller, Current Owner, any Current Operator, any Seller Parties or any Additional Seller Party of any Environmental Law in connection with the Land or the Improvements or the conduct of business thereon. 5.25.7. Definitions. For purposes of this Agreement, "Environmental Laws" shall mean: all federal, state and local statutes, regulations, directives, ordinances, rules, policies and guidelines having the force and effect of law, court orders and decrees of any governmental authority and any legally enforceable arbitration awards and the common law, which pertain to environmental matters, contamination of any type whatsoever or health and safety matters, as such have been amended, modified or supplemented from time to time. For purposes of this Agreement, "Hazardous Substances" shall mean: any chemical, pollutant, mold, contaminant, pesticide, petroleum or petroleum product or by product, radioactive substance, solid waste (hazardous or extremely hazardous), special, dangerous or toxic waste, substance, chemical or material regulated, as hazardous or toxic under any Environmental Law. For purposes of this Agreement, "Environmental Liabilities" shall mean: any and all Losses and other liabilities arising in connection with or in any way relating to the Property, or the use, operation or ownership of the Property by Seller, Current Owner, the Seller Parties, any Current Operator, any Additional Seller Parties or any of their affiliates, whether vested or unvested, contingent or fixed, actual or potential, to the extent such losses or other liabilities (i) arise under or relate to Environmental Laws, Hazardous Substances, or arise in connection with or relate to any matter disclosed or required to be disclosed in Schedule 5.25 attached hereto and (ii) arise from or relate in any way to actions occurring or conditions existing prior to the Closing Date. 19
Schedule 5.25 sets forth an accurate and complete list of all Environmental Liabilities known to Seller as of the date of this Agreement. 5.26. Buyer Permits; Assumed Permits. Prior to Closing, Seller and Current Owner have reasonably assisted Buyer in its efforts to obtain any permits, licenses, Certificates of Need, approvals, provider agreements or comparable consents from any governmental or quasi-governmental authority (including, but not limited to, any Health Departments) that are either a condition of the sale of the Facilities to Buyer or necessary or advisable for Buyer to obtain (rather than receive an assignment thereof from Seller (or Current Owner or any Current Operator) or rely on comparable permits, licenses, approvals or provider agreements issued to any Operator) in connection with ownership, use and operation of the Facilities from and after Closing under any and all applicable laws, ordinances, rules or regulations (collectively, "Buyer Permits"). At Closing, Seller has sold, transferred, conveyed and assigned (or has caused Current Owner to assign) all of the Assumed Permits to Buyer and obtained any and all Transfer Approvals (as hereinafter defined) from governmental or quasi-governmental authorities or the providers under any Third Party Payor Programs necessary or advisable as a condition to (a) the assignment to Buyer, and the assumption by Buyer, of the Assumed Permits and (b) the Operational Transfer (as hereinafter defined). 5.27. Operator Approvals; Transferred Operator Permits. On or prior to Closing, Seller has used its best efforts to cause to be issued to, or received by, the applicable Operator of each Facility any and all permits, licenses, approvals, consents, Certificates of Need, provider agreements or other comparable items from any governmental or quasi-governmental authority (including, but not limited to, any Health Departments) that are either a condition of the transfer of operations at the Facilities or necessary or advisable in connection with the Operational Transfer and/or the use and operation of the Facilities after Closing in the ordinary course, and the receipt of regular reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid or other Third Party Payor Programs after Closing (such permits, licenses, approvals, provider agreements and comparable items, the "Operator Approvals"). On or prior to Closing, Seller, Current Owner or the Current Operators have sold, transferred, conveyed and assigned to applicable Operators of each Facility all of the Transferred Operator Permits (or in the case of the Assigned Interest Operations allowed such Transferred Operator Permits to remain with the Assigned Interest Operators) and obtained any and all Transfer Approvals necessary or advisable as a condition of such transfer (or allowing the Transferred Operator Permits to remain with the Assignment Interest Operators, as applicable). Without limitation of the foregoing, the Transferred Operator Permits represent all of the Operator Licenses that (a) should be sold, transferred, conveyed and assigned (or allowed to remain with the Assigned Interest Operators) to the Operators as part of the Operational Transfer or (b) are necessary or advisable in connection with the Operational Transfer and/or the use and operation of the Facilities after Closing in the ordinary course, and the receipt of regular reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid or other Third Party Payor Programs after Closing in the ordinary course. 5.28. Transition Permits. On or prior to Closing, Seller, Current Owner or the Current Operators have taken such actions; filed such applications, notices, petitions and transfers; and obtained such consents, approvals, licenses, permits or permission from governmental or quasi-governmental authorities and the providers under any Third Party Payor Programs as are required, necessary or advisable to allow the Operators to rely upon, use and 20
employ the Transition Permits for the use and operation of the Facilities for their primary intended purpose from and after Closing in the ordinary course and the receipt of regular reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid or any Third Party Payor Programs from and after Closing in the ordinary course, until the Operators receive the Operator Approvals necessary to replace such Transition Permits. 5.29. Operational Transfer. On or prior to Closing, Seller, Current Owner or the Current Operators, as applicable and at Seller's sole cost, have taken any and all necessary actions; obtained and filed such applications, petitions and transfers (including, but not limited to, the Transfer Notices (as hereinafter defined) and the Transfer Approvals); made such assignments, conveyances and transfers to and for the benefit of the Operators (including, but not limited to, the assignment of the Transferred Operator Permits); caused such permits, licenses, approvals and provider agreements (including, but not limited to, certain of the Operator Approvals) to be issued to and for the benefit of the Operators; and obtained all such approvals, consents, licenses and permits as are necessary to allow: (a) the Operators to rely upon, use and employ the Transition Permits and (b) to allow the Assigned Interest Operators to continue to rely upon and employ the Transferred Operation Permits after Closing as are necessary, desirable, advisable or required such that the day-to-day operations of the Facilities, as healthcare facilities, are transferred and transitioned, practically and legally, to the Operators simultaneously with Closing without interruption of the business activities therein, regulatory or otherwise (such transfer of operations, the "Operational Transfer"). Prior to Closing, Seller has, at Seller's cost, (i) used its best efforts to obtain such consents, approvals and permits from governmental and quasi-governmental authorities ("Transfer Approvals"); and (ii) filed and submitted such petitions, notices and applications ("Transfer Notices") as are necessary or advisable (a) in connection with (1) the transfer and conveyance of the Facilities by Seller to Buyer and (2) the Operational Transfer and (b) to allow the Operators (including the Assigned Interest Operators) to rely on the Transition Permits and to use and employ the Transferred Operator Permits from and after Closing. All representations and warranties made by Seller in this Agreement shall survive the Closing for a period of two (2) years and shall not merge into any conveyancing documentation delivered at Closing. Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, the representations and warranties of each Seller and THC in this Section 5 are the sole and exclusive representations and warranties of each Seller and THC with respect to environmental, health and safety matters, including without limitation, all matters arising under Environmental Laws or relating to Hazardous Substances. 5.30. 8-K Requirements. Upon Buyer's request, for a period of two (2) years after Closing, Seller or Current Owner (with respect to the Current Owner Projects) shall make the Operating Statements, the Financial Statements and any underlying financial data associated therewith available to Buyer for inspection, copying and audit by Buyer's designated accountants, and at Buyer's expense. Seller or Current Owner (with respect to the Current Owner Projects) shall provide Buyer, but without third-party expense to Seller or Current Owner, with copies of, or access to, such factual information as may be reasonably requested by Buyer, and in the possession or control of Seller or Current Owner, to enable Ventas, Inc. to file Form 8-K and the required financial statements of Buyer, if, as and when such filing may be required by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Without limitation of the foregoing, Buyer or its 21
designated independent or other accountants may audit the required Operating Statements and the Financial Statements, and Seller or Current Owner (with respect to the Current Owner Projects) shall supply such documentation in its possession or control and respond to inquiries as Buyer or its accountants may reasonably request in order to complete such audit, and Seller or Current Owner (with respect to the Current Owner Projects) shall execute an audit representation letter in the form required by the Buyer's accountants substantially in the form of audit representation letter contained in Exhibit I attached hereto or made a part hereof. All covenants made in this Agreement by Seller shall survive the Closing for a period of two (2) years and shall not be merged into any instrument of conveyance delivered at Closing. 6. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO CLOSING. 6.1. Buyer's obligations to proceed to Closing shall be conditioned upon: 6.1.1. Pending Actions. At Closing, there shall be no administrative agency, litigation or governmental proceeding of any kind whatsoever, pending or threatened, that, after Closing, would, in Buyer's reasonable discretion, materially and adversely affect the value of any Facility, or the ability of Buyer or any Operator to operate any Facility in the manner it is being operated on the date of this Agreement. Without limitation of the foregoing, at Closing, all of the Permits, Operator Licenses, Operator Approvals and Provider Agreements shall be in good standing in all material respects and neither Seller, Current Owner nor any Current Operator shall have received any written notice alleging or advising of any violation of any Permits, Operator Licenses or Provider Agreements. 6.1.2. Representations and Warranties. As of the Closing Date, the representations and warranties made by Seller to Buyer shall be true, accurate and correct in all material respects. 6.1.3. Title Policy. At Closing, the Title Company shall issue the Title Policy to Buyer in the form required by Section 4.1 above inclusive of the Endorsements. 6.1.4. Buyer Permits. Buyer shall have obtained and/or been issued any and all Buyer Permits from governmental or quasi-governmental authorities that are either a condition of the sale of the Facilities to Buyer or necessary or advisable for Buyer to obtain (rather than receive an assignment thereof from Seller (or Current Owner) or rely on comparable permits, licenses, approvals or provider agreements issued to a Operator) in connection with the use, operation and ownership of the Facilities from and after Closing in the ordinary course of business. 6.1.5. Operator Approvals. The Operators shall either (i) have obtained and/or been issued any and all Operator Approvals from governmental or quasi-governmental authorities or Transferred Operator Permits or (ii) obtained the right to rely upon, employ and use any and all Transition Permits that are either a condition of the transfer of operations at the Facilities to the Operators or necessary or advisable in connection with the Operational Transfer and/or the use and operation of the Facilities (and the receipt by the Facilities and the Operators of regular reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid and other Third Party Payor Programs) after Closing in the manner in which they are currently being operated. 22
6.1.6. Transfer Approvals. Seller and the Operators, as the case may be, shall have (i) filed any and all Transfer Notices with the necessary governmental and quasi-governmental authorities and caused such authorities to accept such Transfer Notices; and (ii) obtained any and all Transfer Approvals from governmental and quasi-governmental authorities necessary or advisable for the sale, transfer and conveyance of the Facilities to Buyer, their use, operation and ownership from and after Closing and the Operational Transfer. 6.1.7. Lease. At Closing, Buyer (or any affiliate of Buyer) and each Operator shall execute and enter into that certain Master Lease Agreement substantially in the form which is attached hereto as Exhibit J (the "Lease"), pursuant to which Buyer master leases the Facilities pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth therein. Each Operator shall lease the Facility identified with respect to such Operator on Schedule 2 attached hereto and made a part hereof pursuant to the Lease. The Operators shall be duly formed and validly incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware and shall be organized as so-called "bankruptcy remote" entities on terms acceptable to Buyer. At Closing, the execution and delivery of the Lease by each Operator, and its performance under the Lease, shall, have been duly authorized by such Operator, and the Lease shall be binding on each Operator and enforceable against each Operator in accordance with its terms. At Closing, no consent of any creditor, investor, judicial or administrative body, governmental authority, Health Department or other governmental body or agency, or other party to such execution, delivery and performance of the Lease by any Operator shall be required. Neither the execution of the Lease nor the consummation of the transactions contemplated thereby will (i) result in a breach of, default under, or acceleration of, any agreement to which any Operator (or its sole member) is a party or by which any Operator (or its sole member) is bound; or (ii) violate any restriction, court order, permit, agreement or other legal obligation to which any Operator (or its sole member) is subject. At Closing, THC shall unconditionally guaranty all of the obligations of the Operators pursuant to the Lease pursuant to the form of Lease Guaranty attached to the Lease (the "Lease Guaranty"). The obligations of THC pursuant to the Lease Guaranty shall be secured by the equity pledge. 6.1.8. Loan Transaction. Buyer shall have provided to Seller, and THC shall have executed and accepted the Loan Commitment Letter and all of the loan documents, mortgages and security instruments necessary to consummate the Loan Transaction (the "Loan Documents"). At Closing, Buyer (or its affiliates) and Seller, THC or their respective affiliates shall simultaneously proceed to the closing of the Loan Transaction or the terms contemplated by the Loan Documents and the Loan Commitment Letter. 6.1.9. Certain Regulatory Issues. The licensing and operation of each Project shall be reasonably satisfactory to Buyer. Without limitation of the foregoing, Buyer shall have no obligation to proceed to Closing if any of the following are true with respect to any Project: (a) the Project has a G "TAG"; (b) the Project has 10 or more "TAGS" in the aggregate; or (c) the Project is subject to an admissions hold, in each case unless a plan of correction has been submitted and has been accepted by the appropriate regulatory authorities and such corrective plan is acceptable to Buyer. 6.2. Seller's obligation to proceed to closing shall be conditioned upon: 23
6.2.1. Representations and Warranties. As of the Closing Date, the representations and warranties made by Buyer to Seller pursuant to this Agreement shall be true, accurate and correct in all material respects; 6.2.2. Lease. At Closing, Buyer (or any affiliate of Buyer) shall have executed and entered into the Lease; 6.2.3. Loan Transaction. Seller (or any affiliate of Seller) shall have executed all of the Loan Documents. At Closing, Buyer (or its affiliates) and Seller (or its affiliates) shall simultaneously proceed to the closing of the Loan Transaction on the terms contemplated by the Loan Documents; and 6.2.4. Millennium Agreement. The closing under the Millennium Agreement shall have occurred. 7. OPERATIONAL TRANSFER. 7.1. Transfer of Operations. From and after Closing, Seller, at Seller's sole cost, shall continue to take all necessary actions; file such applications, petitions and transfers (including, but not limited to, Transfer Notices and the Transfer Approvals); make such assignments, conveyances and transfers to and for the benefit of the Operators; cause such permits, licenses, approvals and provider agreements (including, but not limited to, the Operator Approvals) to be issued to and for the benefit of the Operators; and obtain and maintain the right for the benefit of the Operators to use, rely upon and employ the Transition Permits as are necessary, desirable, advisable or required to complete the Operational Transfer, practically and legally, without interruption of the business activities therein, regulatory or otherwise. From and after Closing, Seller shall, at Seller's cost, obtain those Transfer Approvals it was unable to obtain prior to Closing that are necessary or advisable (a) in connection with the transfer and conveyance of the Facilities by Seller to Buyer and the Operational Transfer and (b) to allow the Operators to rely on the Transition Permits from and after Closing. From and after Closing, the Operators, as tenants pursuant to the Lease, shall manage and operate the Facilities as healthcare facilities in substantially the same manner and fashion in which they are presently being operated by Seller or Current Owner. Without limitation of any of the foregoing, as part of the Operational Transfer, from and after Closing, Seller shall (or Seller shall cause the Current Owner or the Current Operators, as applicable to), at Seller's cost, (i) cause the issuance to, the Operators of the Operator Approvals; and (ii) cause the ongoing business activities at the Facilities to proceed without interruption from and after Closing subject to the supervision and control of the Operators such that the Operators are fully licensed and approved by any and all necessary governmental and quasi-governmental authorities to conduct business in the Facilities in the ordinary course and receive regular reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid and other necessary Third Party Payor Programs. It is acknowledged by the parties that from and after Closing until the Operators obtain any and all Operator Approvals, the Operators shall be entitled to use, rely upon and employ the Transition Permits for purposes of conducting business at the Facilities from and after Closing. From and after Closing, Seller shall (and Seller shall cause Current Owner or Current Operator, as applicable to) take such actions; file such applications, petitions and transfers; and obtain and maintain such consents, licenses, permits and approvals from any and all governmental or quasi-governmental authorities and the providers under any 24
Third Party Payor Programs as are necessary, desirable, advisable or required to facilitate the Operational Transfer by allowing (i) the Operators to rely upon, employ or use any and all Transition Permits until such time as the Operators obtain the Operator Approvals necessary to replace such Transition Permits; and (ii) the Assigned Interest Operators to continue to use and rely upon the Transferred Operators Permits applicable to such Facilities. Seller shall deliver such information relative to, and evidence of, the Operational Transfer as Buyer shall reasonably require from time to time. Following the Closing, the parties shall cooperate fully with each other and shall make available to the other all information, records or documents required to complete any and all federal and state applications/forms required to effectuate the change of ownership of the Facilities. Seller further agrees that an authorized representative shall sign said applications/forms where required by law or applicable regulations to effectuate the change of ownership of the Facilities. The terms of this Section 7 shall survive Closing and the delivery of any conveyance documentation. 7.2. Transfer of Permits. At Closing, Seller shall, at Seller's cost, transfer to Buyer (or cause Current Owner to transfer to Buyer) the Assumed Permits. From and after Closing, Seller shall continue (and shall cause Current Owner to continue to) reasonably assist Buyer in its efforts to obtain any and all Buyer Permits as soon as reasonably practicable after Closing. 8. SELLER'S CLOSING DELIVERIES. At Closing (or such other times as may be specified below), Seller shall deliver or cause to be delivered to Buyer the following, in form and substance reasonably acceptable to Buyer: 8.1. Deed. The Deeds, executed by Seller (or Current Owner, as applicable), in recordable form, conveying each Project to Buyer free and clear of all liens, claims and encumbrances except for the Permitted Exceptions. 8.2. General Assignment. An assignment, executed by Seller (or Current Owner, as applicable), to Buyer of all right, title and interest of Seller (or Current Owner, as applicable) and its agents in and to the Intangibles including, but not limited to, the Assumed Permits together with such additional requirements, notices and petitions as Buyer may reasonably require to transfer the Assumed Permits. 8.3. Operator Licenses. An assignment and assumption, executed by Seller (or Current Owner or Current Operator, as applicable) and the applicable Operators, of any and all Transferred Operator Permits, together with evidence satisfactory to Buyer that any and all governmental and quasi-governmental authorities as well as the providers under any Third Party Payor Programs have approved (a) the transfer of such Transferred Operator Permits and (b) the use of, reliance upon or employment by the Operators of the Transition Permits from and after Closing for the operation of the Facilities in the ordinary course of business. 8.4. ALTA Statement. If required by the Title Company, ALTA (or comparable) Statements, each executed by Seller (or Current Owner, as applicable) and in form and substance acceptable to the Title Company. 25
8.5. Transfer Notices. Copies of the Transfer Notices together with evidence of their delivery to, and acceptance by, the applicable governmental and quasi-governmental authorities and any and all Transfer Approvals. 8.6. Original Documents. To the extent not previously delivered to Buyer, originals of the Assigned Contracts and the Assumed Permits. 8.7. Closing Statement. A closing statement conforming to the proration and other relevant provisions of this Agreement. 8.8. Plans and Specifications. All plans and specifications related to the Improvements in Seller's possession or reasonable control or otherwise available to Seller which have not been previously delivered to Buyer. 8.9. Entity Transfer Certificate. Entity Transfer Certification confirming that Seller and Current Owner (as applicable) are each a "United States Person" within the meaning of Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 8.10. Tax Affidavit. Seller's affidavit confirming that the sale of the Property to Buyer hereunder is not subject to, and does not subject Buyer to, liability for income tax, retail sales tax or bulk sales obligations under the applicable laws of any state in which a Project is located. 8.11. Certificate of Occupancy. A currently valid certificate of occupancy (or comparable permit or license) with respect to the Facilities. 8.12. Closing Certificate. A certificate, signed by Seller and THC, certifying to the Buyer that the representations and warranties of Seller contained in this Agreement are true and correct as of the Closing Date, and that all covenants required to be performed by Seller prior to the Closing Date have been performed, in all material respects. 8.13. Lease. The Lease duly executed by each of the Operators together with (i) any security deposit required to be posted thereunder by such Operators; (ii) evidence reasonably satisfactory to Buyer that the Operational Transfer has been completed and that the Operators are fully licensed and approved to conduct business in the Facilities in the ordinary course and receive regular reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid and other necessary Third Party Payor Programs; and (iii) any and all Certificates of Insurance required to be delivered by the Operators, as tenants, to Buyer, as landlord. The Lease Guaranty duly executed by THC. 8.14. Assignment of Contract Rights. The Contract Right Assignment duly executed by THC, Current Owner and the Seller Parties. 8.15. Opinion of Counsel. An opinion of Seller's (or Current Owner's, as to the Current Owner Projects) counsel to and for the benefit of Buyer, in form acceptable to Buyer, indicating that such Assumed Permits have been sold, transferred, conveyed and assigned to Buyer, such Transferred Operator Permits have been assigned to, or received by, the Operators, such approvals have been obtained for the reliance upon the Transition Permits by the Operators and such Transfer Notices have been posted or filed as are necessary or advisable in connection 26
with the Operational Transfer and the Operational Transfer has otherwise occurred pursuant to, and in accordance with, any and all laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. 8.16. Other. Such other documents and instruments as may reasonably be required by Buyer or the Title Company and that may reasonably be necessary or appropriate to consummate this transaction and to otherwise effect the agreements of the parties pursuant to this Agreement. 9. BUYER'S CLOSING DELIVERIES. At Closing Buyer shall cause the following to be delivered to Seller in form reasonably acceptable to Seller: 9.1. Purchase Price. The Purchase Price, plus or minus prorations, shall be delivered to the Title Company in escrow for disbursement to Seller. 9.2. Contract Assignment. The Contract Assignment duly executed by Buyer. 9.3. Lease. The Lease duly executed by Buyer (or an affiliate of Buyer selected by Buyer). 9.4. Contract Right Assignment. The Contract Right Assignment duly executed by Buyer. 9.5. Other. Such other documents and instruments as may reasonably be required by Seller or the Title Company and that may reasonably be necessary or appropriate to consummate this transaction and to otherwise effect the agreements of the parties pursuant to this Agreement. 10. PRORATIONS AND ADJUSTMENTS. The following shall be prorated and adjusted between Seller and Buyer as of the Closing Date, except as otherwise specified: 10.1. Taxes. All accrued general real estate, personal property and ad valorem taxes for the current year applicable to the Property shall be prorated on an accrual basis utilizing actual final tax bills if available prior to Closing. If such tax bills are not available, then such taxes shall be prorated on the basis of the most currently available tax bills for the Property and promptly re-prorated upon the issuance of final bills therefor, and any amounts due from any party to the other shall be paid in cash at that time. Prior to or at Closing, Seller shall pay or have paid all tax bills that are due and payable prior to or on the Closing Date and shall furnish evidence of such payment to Buyer and the Title Company. Buyer shall apply any credit received at Closing in connection with this Section 10.1 towards the funding of the tax escrow contemplated by Section 3.3 of the Lease. 10.2. Assessments. All assessments, general or special, shall be prorated as of the Closing Date, with Seller being responsible for any installments of assessments which are due prior to the Closing Date and Buyer being responsible for any installments of assessments which are due on or after the Closing Date; provided, however, that Buyer shall apply any credit received at Closing in connection with this Section 10.2 to fund the tax escrow contemplated by Section 3.3 of the Lease. 27
For purposes of calculating prorations, Buyer shall be deemed to be in title to the Property, and therefore entitled to the income therefrom and responsible for the expenses thereof, for the entire day upon which the Closing occurs. All such prorations shall be made on the basis of the actual number of days of the year and month that shall have elapsed as of the Closing Date. The amount of such prorations shall be adjusted in cash after Closing, as and when complete and accurate information becomes available. Seller and Buyer agree to cooperate and use their good faith and diligent efforts to make such adjustments no later than thirty (30) days after the Closing, or as soon as is reasonably practicable if and to the extent that the required final proration information is not available within such thirty (30) day period. The obligations of the parties pursuant to this Section 10 shall survive the Closing and shall not merge into any documents of conveyance delivered at Closing. 11. CLOSING EXPENSES. Seller will pay at Closing, all reasonable and necessary closing costs and expenses, including without limitation, the entire cost of the Title Policy (including the cost of any chain of title searches and the Endorsements), the cost of the Surveys, any fees or premiums incurred in connection with the prepayment of debt encumbering any portion of the Land or the Improvements, the actual fees of Seller's attorneys, the fees of Buyer's attorneys (including local counsel), all documentary and state, county and municipal transfer taxes relating to the instruments of conveyance contemplated herein, and any escrows hereunder. Seller's obligation to reimburse Buyer for such costs (including attorney's fees) shall survive any termination of this Agreement. 12. DEFAULT. 12.1. Default by Seller. In the event Seller fails or refuses to close pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or fails to consummate the Loan Transaction for any reason other than Buyer's failure to perform on terms consistent with this Agreement, Seller or THC shall pay to Buyer, as fixed and liquidated damages (and not as a penalty), the entire Application Fee (as defined in the Loan Term Sheet) plus $500,000 [the "Seller Default Amount"] as Buyer's sole remedy (hereunder, under the Loan Commitment Letter, the Term Sheet, the Commitment Letter, the Loan Term Sheet and otherwise), on account of either or both of Seller's failure to proceed to Closing or proceed with the Loan Transaction. Upon payment of the Seller Default Amount, this Agreement shall be terminated and neither party shall have any further liability hereunder, except for those liabilities that expressly survive a termination of this Agreement. Without limitation of the foregoing, in no event shall Seller or THC be obligated to pay the Seller Default Amount to Buyer on account of both its failure to proceed to Closing hereunder and to the closing of the Loan Transaction such that the Seller Default Amount would be payable twice (such payment being a one time, aggregate payment on account of Seller's failure to proceed with either or both of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Loan Transaction). Additionally, Seller and THC shall remain obligated to reimburse Buyer for its Expenses (as defined in the Commitment Letter) actually incurred, the Transaction Closing Costs and any expenses actually incurred and owing to Buyer pursuant to the Loan Commitment Letter (collectively, "Reimbursement Obligations"); provided, however, that neither Seller nor THC shall be obligated to pay any such Reimbursement Obligations more than once. BUYER, THC AND SELLER ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT: (1) THE SELLER DEFAULT AMOUNT IS A REASONABLE ESTIMATE OF AND BEARS A REASONABLE RELATIONSHIP TO THE DAMAGES THAT WOULD BE SUFFERED AND COSTS 28
INCURRED BY BUYER AS A RESULT OF THE FAILURE OF CLOSING TO HAVE OCCURRED DUE TO A DEFAULT OF SELLER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT OR OTHERWISE OR A FAILURE OF SELLER TO PROCEED TO CLOSING; (2) THE ACTUAL DAMAGES SUFFERED AND COSTS INCURRED BY BUYER AS A RESULT OF SUCH FAILURE TO CLOSE DUE TO A DEFAULT OF SELLER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT OR OTHERWISE WOULD BE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT AND IMPRACTICAL TO DETERMINE; (3) SELLER SEEKS TO LIMIT ITS LIABILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT TO THE SELLER DEFAULT AMOUNT IN THE EVENT THIS AGREEMENT IS TERMINATED AND THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT DOES NOT CLOSE DUE TO A DEFAULT OF SELLER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT OR OTHERWISE; AND (4) THE SELLER DEFAULT AMOUNT SHALL BE AND CONSTITUTE VALID LIQUIDATED DAMAGES. In the event of any breach, default or failure of performance by or on the part of Seller with respect to any covenant, agreement, representation and warranty or other undertaking that survives Closing, whether such breach, default or failure occurs after Closing or occurs prior to Closing but is first disclosed or discovered after Closing, Buyer shall have all of its remedies at law and in equity on account of such breach, default or failure of performance (except the foregoing sentence shall not apply and Buyer shall be precluded from recovering any such additional amounts from Seller after the termination of this Agreement to the extent Buyer is paid the Seller Default Amount). Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the right of Buyer to receive, and the receipt by Buyer of, the Seller Default Amount shall be without limitation upon its right to retain the Good Faith Deposit (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the Term Sheet, the Commitment Fee (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to the Commitment Letter and any comparable amounts paid by Seller or THC pursuant to the Loan Term Sheet or the Loan Commitment Letter. 12.2. Default by Buyer. In the event (i) Buyer fails or refuses to close pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or to fund the Loan Transaction; and (ii) all of the Conditions Precedent set forth herein and/or all of the conditions to funding the Loan Transaction contained in the Loan Commitment Letter and the Loan Documents, respectively, have been satisfied to the standard set forth herein or therein (collectively, the "Funding Conditions"), Buyer shall pay to Seller, as fixed and liquidated damages (and not as a penalty), Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($500,000) [the "Buyer Default Amount"] as Seller's sole remedy (hereunder, under the Loan Commitment Letter, the Term Sheet, the Commitment Letter, the Loan Term Sheet and otherwise), on account of either or both of Buyer's default hereunder and failure to proceed to Closing or proceed with the Loan Transaction. Upon payment of the Buyer Default Amount, this Agreement shall automatically terminate and neither party shall have any further liability hereunder, except for those liabilities that expressly survive the termination of this Agreement. Without limitation of the foregoing, in no event shall Buyer be obligated to pay the Buyer Default Amount to Seller on account of both its failure to proceed with the transactions described in this Agreement and the Loan Transaction after the Funding Conditions have been satisfied such that the Buyer Default Amount would be payable twice (such payment being a one time, aggregate payment on account of Buyer's failure to proceed with either or both of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Loan Transaction after the Funding Conditions have been satisfied). Additionally, should Buyer be obligated to pay the Buyer Default Amount pursuant to the terms hereof, Buyer shall refund any Expenses paid by Seller, any Transaction Closing Costs paid by Seller hereunder (and any expenses paid by Seller on behalf of Buyer pursuant to the Loan Commitment Letter). Seller shall have no other remedy for 29
any default by Buyer, including any right to damages. BUYER AND SELLER ACKNOWLEDGE AND AGREE THAT: (1) THE BUYER DEFAULT AMOUNT IS A REASONABLE ESTIMATE OF AND BEARS A REASONABLE RELATIONSHIP TO THE DAMAGES THAT WOULD BE SUFFERED AND COSTS INCURRED BY SELLER AS A RESULT OF HAVING WITHDRAWN THE PROPERTY FROM SALE AND THE FAILURE OF CLOSING TO HAVE OCCURRED DUE TO A DEFAULT OF BUYER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AFTER SATISFACTION OF THE FUNDING CONDITIONS; (2) THE ACTUAL DAMAGES SUFFERED AND COSTS INCURRED BY SELLER AS A RESULT OF SUCH WITHDRAWAL AND FAILURE TO CLOSE DUE TO A DEFAULT OF BUYER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AFTER SATISFACTION OF THE FUNDING CONDITIONS WOULD BE EXTREMELY DIFFICULT AND IMPRACTICAL TO DETERMINE; (3) BUYER SEEKS TO LIMIT ITS LIABILITY UNDER THIS AGREEMENT TO THE BUYER DEFAULT AMOUNT IN THE EVENT THIS AGREEMENT IS TERMINATED AND THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT DOES NOT CLOSE DUE TO A DEFAULT OF BUYER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AFTER SATISFACTION OF THE FUNDING CONDITIONS; AND (4) THE BUYER DEFAULT AMOUNT SHALL BE AND CONSTITUTE VALID LIQUIDATED DAMAGES. The foregoing shall not apply to, and Seller shall have no right to the Buyer Default Amount in connection with, a breach, default or failure of performance by Buyer pursuant to Section 14; provided, however, that Seller shall be entitled to pursue an action for actual damages with respect to such breach, default or failure of performance by Buyer pursuant to those Sections. In the event of any breach, default or failure of performance by Buyer of any covenant, agreement, indemnity, representation or warranty of Buyer that survives the Closing or the termination of this Agreement, Seller shall have all of its rights at law or in equity on account of such breach, default or failure of performance (except the foregoing sentence shall not apply and Seller shall be precluded from recovering any such additional amounts from Buyer after the termination of this Agreement to the extent Seller is paid the Buyer Default Amount). 13. TAX-DEFERRED EXCHANGE/ REVERSE EXCHANGE. Buyer may assign all or any of its right, title and interest under this Agreement to any third party intermediary (an "Intermediary") in connection with a tax-deferred exchange or reverse exchange pursuant to Section 1031 of the Internal Revenue Code (an "Exchange"). In the event Buyer elects to assign this Agreement to an Intermediary, Seller shall reasonably cooperate with Buyer (without incurring any additional liability or any additional third party expenses) in connection with such election and the consummation of the Exchange, including without limitation, by executing an acknowledgment of Buyer's assignment of this Agreement to the Intermediary. 14. INDEMNIFICATION. Seller and THC each hereby agrees and does indemnify and hold Buyer, Buyer's affiliates, and their respective partners, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns (the "Buyer Indemnified Parties") harmless (on a joint and several basis) from and against any and all actual losses, damages, claims, causes of action, judgments, costs and expenses (including, reasonable fees of attorneys) (collectively, "Losses") that may be suffered or incurred by or asserted or awarded against Buyer or any Buyer Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of, or in connection with, or by reason of: (i) any matters contemplated by this Agreement; (ii) any Operator Liabilities, regardless of the period to which such Operator Liabilities relate; (iii) any material inaccuracy, breach or default by Seller or THC in any 30
representations and warranties of Seller or THC hereunder; (iv) any material failure by Seller or THC to perform any material covenant, agreement or undertaking hereunder; (v) any and all actions, suits, litigation, arbitrations, procedures, investigations, or claims arising out of any of the foregoing or out such other conditions that have occurred prior to the Closing Date even though such actions, suits, litigation, arbitrations, procedures, investigations or claims have not be filed or have not come to light until after Closing; (vi) any Environmental Liabilities; (vii) any material breach, default or failure of performance by Current Owner, the Seller Parties or THC pursuant to the Millennium Agreement; and (viii) the inability by Seller to cause the Operational Transfer in accordance with this Agreement, including, but not limited to, Seller's inability to obtain any Transfer Approvals or the inability of the Operators to rely upon the Transition Permits from and after Closing. With respect to items (i), (ii) and (v) set forth above, Seller and THC shall not be required to indemnify Buyer or any Buyer Indemnified Parties from and against any such Losses to the extent such Losses are solely and directly attributable to the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Buyer or any of the Buyer Indemnified Parties. The foregoing indemnity shall survive Closing and the delivery of any conveyance documentation. 15. LITIGATION. In the event of litigation between the parties with respect to the Property, this Agreement, the performance of their respective obligations hereunder or the effect of a termination under this Agreement, the losing party shall pay all costs and expenses incurred by the prevailing party in connection with such litigation, including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees of counsel selected by the prevailing party. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the obligations of the parties under this Section 14 shall survive termination of this Agreement or Closing and the delivery of any conveyance documentation. 16. NOTICES. Any notice, demand or request which may be permitted, required or desired to be given in connection therewith shall be given in writing and directed to Seller and Buyer as follows: Seller: Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. c/o Trans Healthcare, Inc. 4660 Trindle Road Suite 103 Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 Attn: Anthony Misitano Fax: (717) 730-8722 With a copy to its attorneys: Latsha Davis & Yohe, P.C. 4720 Old Gettysburg Road Suite 101 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17108-0825 Attn: Douglas Yohe Fax: (717) 761-2286 31
and to: Kirkland & Ellis 200 East Randolph Drive Chicago, Illinois 60601 Attn: Francesco Penati Fax: (312) 660-0495 Buyer: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership 333 W. Wacker Drive Suite 2850 Chicago, Illinois 60606 Attn: Donna Cote Fax: (312) 984-3150 With a copy to: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership 4360 Brownsboro, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attn: T. Richard Riney Fax: (502) 357-9029 With a copy to its attorneys: Barack Ferrazzano Kirschbaum Perlman & Nagelberg LLC 333 W. Wacker Drive 27th Floor Chicago, Illinois 60606 Attn: Mark J. Beaubien Fax: (312) 984-3150 Notices shall be deemed properly delivered and received (i) the same day when personally delivered; or (ii) one day after deposit with Federal Express or other commercial overnight courier; or (iii) the same day when sent by confirmed facsimile. 17. BENEFIT. This Agreement is for the benefit only of the parties hereto and their nominees, successors, beneficiaries and assignees as permitted in Section 13 and no other person or entity shall be entitled to rely hereon, receive any benefit herefrom or enforce against any party hereto any provision hereof. 18. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. Upon the Closing, Buyer shall neither assume nor undertake to pay, satisfy or discharge any liabilities, obligations or commitments of Seller other than those specifically agreed to between the parties and set forth in this Agreement. 19. REASONABLE EFFORTS. Seller and Buyer shall use their reasonable, diligent and good faith efforts, and shall cooperate with and assist each other in their efforts, to obtain such consents and approvals of third parties (including, but not limited to, governmental authorities), to the transaction contemplated hereby, and to otherwise perform as may be necessary to effectuate transfer the Property to Buyer in accordance with this Agreement. 32
20. FEES. Buyer and Seller acknowledge and agree that Seller has delivered to Buyer (i) a good faith deposit in the amount of $200,000 pursuant to the Term Sheet ("Good Faith Deposit") and (ii) a commitment fee in the amount of $500,000 (the "Commitment Fee") pursuant to the Commitment Letter. Seller acknowledges and agrees that the Commitment Fee and the Good Faith Deposit have been earned by Buyer and are non-refundable to Seller or THC in all circumstances. 21. MISCELLANEOUS. 21.1. Entire Agreement. Except for the Term Sheet and the Commitment Letter, this Agreement constitutes the entire understanding between the parties with respect to the transaction contemplated herein, and all prior or contemporaneous oral agreements, understandings, representations and statements, and all prior written agreements, understandings, letters of intent and proposals, in each case with respect to the transaction contemplated herein, are hereby superseded and rendered null and void and of no further force and effect and are merged into this Agreement. Neither this Agreement nor any provisions hereof may be waived, modified, amended, discharged or terminated except by an instrument in writing signed by the party against which the enforcement of such waiver, modification, amendment, discharge or termination is sought, and then only to the extent set forth in such instrument. 21.2. Legal Holidays. If any date herein set forth for the performance of any obligations by Seller or Buyer or for the delivery of any instrument or notice as herein provided should be on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, the compliance with such obligations or delivery shall be deemed acceptable on the next business day following such Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday. As used herein, the term "legal holiday" means any state or federal holiday for which financial institutions or post offices are generally closed for observance thereof in the State of Illinois. 21.3. Conditions Precedent. The obligations of (i) Buyer to pay the Purchase Price and to close the transaction contemplated herein and (ii) Seller to proceed to Closing are subject to the express Conditions Precedent set forth in this Agreement (and the other conditions precedent of Buyer therein contained), each of which is for the sole benefit of Buyer and Seller, as the case may be, and may be waived at any time by written notice thereof from Buyer or Seller, as the case may be. The waiver of any particular Condition Precedent shall not constitute the waiver of any other. In the event of the failure of a Condition Precedent for any reason whatsoever, Buyer or Seller, as the case may be, may elect, in its sole discretion and by delivery of written notice to the other party on or prior to Closing, to (A) terminate this Agreement, in which event the provisions of Section 21.7 of this Agreement governing a permitted termination shall apply; or (B) waive the failure of the applicable Condition(s) Precedent and proceed to Closing. 21.4. Construction. This Agreement shall not be construed more strictly against one party than against the other merely by virtue of the fact that it may have been prepared by counsel for one of the parties, it being recognized that both Seller and Buyer have contributed substantially and materially to the preparation of this Agreement. The headings of various sections in this Agreement are for convenience only, and are not to be utilized in construing the content or meaning of the substantive provisions hereof. 33
21.5. Governing Law. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois. 21.6. Partial Invalidity. The provisions hereof shall be deemed independent and severable, and the invalidity or partial invalidity or enforceability of any one provision shall not affect the validity of enforceability of any other provision hereof. 21.7. Permitted Termination. In the event that Buyer exercises any right it may have hereunder to terminate this Agreement, the Buyer Default Amount shall not be owing from Buyer to Seller hereunder or otherwise and neither party shall have any further liability or obligation under this Agreement except for those liabilities and obligations that expressly survive a termination of this Agreement. 21.8. Conflict. In the event of any conflict between the terms and provisions of this Agreement, the Term Sheet and the Commitment Letter, the terms of this Agreement shall control, in all events. [Signature Page to Follow] 34
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Purchase and Sale Agreement on the date first above written. SELLER: TRANS HEALTHCARE OF OHIO, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY MISITANO --------------------------------------- Its: President --------------------------------------- S-1
BUYER: VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware corporation By: Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation Its:General Partner By: /s/ T. RICHARD RINEY ----------------------------------- Its: Executive Vice President ----------------------------------- S-2
THC: ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED by Trans HealthCare, Inc. for purposes of acknowledging its undertakings hereunder: TRANS HEALTHCARE, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY MISITANO --------------------------------------- Its: President -------------------------------------- S-3
ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED by each Current Owner and the Seller Parties for the limited purpose of acknowledging their agreement and undertakings pursuant to Sections 1.4 and 5.30 hereof: MILLENNIUM HOLDINGS IV, LLC MILLENNIUM HOLDINGS VI, LLC MILLENNIUM HOLDINGS VII, LLC MILLENNIUM HEALTH AND REHABILITATION CENTER AT SOUTH RIVER, LLC MILLENNIUM HEALTH AND REHABILITATION CENTER OF ELLICOTT CITY, LLC MILLENNIUM HEALTH AND REHABILITATION CENTER OF FORESTVILLE, LLC By: /s/ ROBERT G. OWENS --------------------------------------- Name Robert G. Owens -------------------------------------- Title: President ------------------------------------- ROBERT G. OWENS (Individually) /s/ ROBERT G. OWENS ------------------------------------------- STANLEY H. SNOW (Individually) /s/ STANLEY H. SNOW ------------------------------------------- S-4

Exhibit 10.1.2 MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT BY VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, AS LANDLORD AND THI OF OHIO AT CHARDON, LLC, THI OF OHIO AT GREENBRIAR NORTH, LLC, TRANS HEALTHCARE OF OHIO, INC., THI OF OHIO ALFS AT THE COMMONS, LLC, THI OF MARYLAND AT SOUTH RIVER, LLC, MILLENNIUM HEALTH AND REHABILITATION CENTER OF FORESTVILLE, LLC, AND MILLENNIUM HEALTH AND REHABILITATION CENTER OF ELLICOTT CITY, LLC AS TENANT DATED AS OF NOVEMBER 1, 2002
TABLE OF CONTENTS 1. Leased Property; Term....................................................2 1.1 Leased Property..................................................2 1.2 Term.............................................................3 1.3 Exercise of Renewal Options......................................3 2. Definitions..............................................................4 3. Rent....................................................................19 3.1 Fixed Rent......................................................19 3.2 Additional Rent.................................................21 3.3 Escrow Deposits.................................................22 3.4 Security Deposit................................................24 3.5 Survival........................................................26 3.6 Net Lease.......................................................26 3.7 Lease Guaranty..................................................27 4. Impositions.............................................................27 4.1 Payment of Impositions..........................................27 4.2 Notice of Impositions...........................................27 4.3 Adjustment of Impositions.......................................28 5. No Termination, Abatement, etc..........................................28 6. Premises; Tenant's Personal Property....................................28 6.1 Ownership of the Premises.......................................28 6.2 Tenant's Personal Property......................................29 7. Condition and Use of Each Leased Property...............................29 7.1 Condition of Each Leased Property...............................29 7.2 Use of Each Leased Property.....................................29 7.3 Security Agreement..............................................30 7.4 Granting of Easements, etc......................................31 8. Negative and Affirmative Covenants of Tenant............................31 8.1 Negative Covenants..............................................31 8.2 Affirmative Covenants...........................................35 8.3 Authorization Non-Compliance....................................38 9. Maintenance of Facilities...............................................38 9.1 Maintenance and Repair..........................................38 9.2 Encroachments...................................................39 10. Tenant's Representations and Warranties.................................40 10.1 Organization and Good Standing..................................40 10.2 Power and Authority.............................................40 10.3 Enforceability..................................................40 i
10.4 Consents........................................................40 10.5 No Violation....................................................40 10.6 Reports and Statements..........................................40 10.7 No Default......................................................41 10.8 Adverse Matters.................................................41 10.9 Certification...................................................41 10.10 Transition Permits..............................................41 10.11 Facility Provider Agreements....................................41 10.12 No Reimbursement Audits or Appeals..............................42 10.13 No Recoupments Efforts..........................................42 10.14 Professional Liability Reserves.................................42 10.15 Primary Intended Use............................................42 10.16 Compliance with Laws............................................42 10.17 Ownership of Authorizations.....................................42 10.18 Third Party Payor Programs......................................43 11. Alterations.............................................................43 11.1 Alterations.....................................................43 11.2 Construction Requirements for all Alterations...................43 11.3 Capital Expenditures Accounts...................................45 12. Liens...................................................................46 13. Permitted Contests......................................................47 14. Insurance...............................................................47 14.1 General Insurance Requirements..................................47 14.2 Policies; Certificates..........................................50 14.3 Blanket Policies................................................50 14.4 Additional Insured..............................................50 14.5 Policy Requirements.............................................51 14.6 Evidence of Compliance..........................................51 14.7 Foreclosure; Transfer...........................................51 14.8 Insurance Company...............................................51 15. Damage and Destruction..................................................52 15.1 Notice of Casualty..............................................52 15.2 Substantial Destruction.........................................52 15.3 Partial Destruction.............................................52 15.4 Restoration.....................................................53 15.5 Disbursement of Insurance Proceeds..............................54 15.6 Insufficient Proceeds/Risk of Loss..............................54 15.7 Excess Proceeds.................................................54 15.8 Landlord's Inspection...........................................54 16. Condemnation............................................................55 16.1 Parties' Rights and Obligations.................................55 ii
16.2 Total Taking....................................................55 16.3 Partial Taking..................................................55 16.4 Restoration.....................................................55 16.5 Award-Distribution..............................................55 16.6 Temporary Taking................................................56 16.7 Facility Mortgagee..............................................56 17. Default.................................................................56 17.1 Events of Default...............................................56 17.2 Existence and Continuation......................................60 17.3 Remedy Election.................................................60 17.4 Certain Remedies................................................60 17.5 Damages.........................................................61 17.6 Waiver..........................................................62 17.7 Application of Funds............................................62 17.8 Nature of Remedies..............................................62 17.9 Deletion of Properties..........................................62 18. Landlord's Right to Cure Tenant's Default...............................63 19. Holding Over............................................................64 20. Subordination...........................................................64 20.1 Subordination...................................................64 20.2 Attornment......................................................64 20.3 Mortgagee Cure Rights...........................................65 20.4 Modifications...................................................65 21. Property Collateral.....................................................65 21.1 Landlord's Security Interest....................................65 21.2 Accounts Receivable Financing...................................66 22. Risk of Loss............................................................67 23. Indemnification.........................................................67 24. Assignment; Sublease....................................................68 24.1 Prohibition.....................................................68 24.2 Change of Control of Trans......................................68 24.3 Permitted Assignments and Subleases.............................69 24.4 Rights of Landlord..............................................69 25. Financial Statements and Reporting......................................70 25.1 Maintenance of Books and Records................................70 25.2 Annual Financial Statements.....................................70 25.3 Quarterly Financial Information.................................70 25.4 Certification of Compliance with Financial Covenants............71 25.5 Reports of Material Adverse Events..............................71 iii
25.6 Report of Compliance with Authorizations........................72 25.7 Weekly and Monthly Cash Flow and Census Reports.................72 25.8 Quarterly Deficiency Reports....................................72 25.9 Reduction in Licensed Beds......................................72 25.10 Notices from Governmental Authorities...........................72 25.11 Medicare and Medicaid Filings...................................72 25.12 Medicare and Medicaid Deficiency Reports........................73 25.13 Annual Budgets..................................................73 25.14 Financial Statements of Guarantor...............................73 25.15 Estoppel Certification..........................................73 25.16 SEC Reports.....................................................75 25.17 Supplemental Information........................................75 25.18 Weekly and Monthly Cash Flow and Census Information.............75 25.19 Quarterly Meetings; Facility Level Meetings and Reviews.........75 25.20 Authorizations..................................................76 25.21 Format..........................................................76 26. Landlord's Right to Inspect.............................................76 27. No Waiver...............................................................76 28. Single Lease............................................................76 29. Acceptance of Surrender.................................................77 30. No Merger of Title......................................................77 31. Conveyance by Landlord..................................................77 32. Quiet Enjoyment.........................................................78 33. Notices.................................................................78 34. Appraisals..............................................................79 34.1 Appraisals......................................................79 34.2 Appointment of Appraisers.......................................79 34.3 Qualifications of Appraisers....................................80 34.4 Binding Nature..................................................80 34.5 Costs...........................................................81 35. General REIT Provisions.................................................81 36. Landlord's Option to Purchase the Tenant's Personal Property............81 37. Compliance With Environmental Laws......................................82 37.1 Hazardous Substances............................................82 37.2 Remediation; Notification.......................................82 37.3 Indemnity.......................................................83 iv
37.4 Environmental Inspection........................................83 37.5 Removal.........................................................83 38. Tenant's Option to Purchase the Leased Property.........................84 39. Operational Transfer....................................................84 39.1 Exercise; Transfer of Authorizations............................84 39.2 Reasonable Assistance...........................................86 39.3 Facility Termination; Limited Extension.........................86 40. Non-Recourse............................................................87 41. Combination of Leases...................................................87 41.1 Section 41 Lease................................................87 41.2 Additional Properties...........................................88 41.3 Combination Lease...............................................89 41.4 Section 41 Date.................................................89 41.5 Additional Actions..............................................89 42. New Lease...............................................................89 42.1 New Lease Terms.................................................89 42.2 Modifications to this Lease.....................................91 42.3 Effective Date..................................................91 42.4 Other Undertakings..............................................91 43. Expansion of Lease......................................................91 44. Restrictive Covenant....................................................91 45. Miscellaneous...........................................................92 45.1 Survival........................................................92 45.2 Maximum Rate....................................................92 45.3 Headings........................................................92 45.4 Integration.....................................................92 45.5 Severability....................................................92 45.6 Subject to Law..................................................92 45.7 Waivers.........................................................92 45.8 Binding Character...............................................92 45.9 Modification....................................................93 45.10 Forbearance.....................................................93 LIST OF SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS Schedule 1 - Primary Intended Use Schedule 2 - Tenant's Proportionate Shares v
Schedule 3.1.1 - Wiring Instructions Schedule 7.3 - Authorization Collateral Schedule 17.1.12 - Licensed Beds Exhibit A - Addresses of the Leased Properties Exhibit A-1 through A-6 - Legal Descriptions to the Land Exhibit B - Intentionally Omitted Exhibit B-1 - Guarantor Exhibit C - Base Year Operating Income Exhibit D - The Option Exhibit E - Restrictive Covenant Exhibit F - Form SNDA vi
MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT This MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT (together with all exhibits and schedules attached hereto, and as it may be modified, amended, renewed, supplemented, extended, or replaced by the parties hereto from time to time, this "Lease") is made and entered into as of November 1, 2002, between VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (together with its successors and assigns, "Landlord"), and each of the entities identified on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof, as the same may be modified from time to time pursuant to Section 17, Section 41 or Section 43 of this Lease (together with their permitted successors and assigns, collectively, "Tenant"). RECITALS: WHEREAS, Landlord owns the parcels of real property and all improvements located thereon and all appurtenances thereto, described by the common addresses set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof and legally described in Exhibits "A-1" to "A-6" attached hereto; and WHEREAS, each Tenant shall lease and operate the applicable Facility (as hereinafter defined) allocated to such Tenant on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof; and WHEREAS, Landlord desires to lease the Premises (as hereinafter defined) to Tenant, and Tenant desires to lease the Premises from Landlord; and WHEREAS, the parties desire to enter into this Lease to set forth their rights and obligations relating to the Premises; and WHEREAS, Landlord acquired the Premises pursuant to that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement between Landlord and Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc., dated November 1, 2002 (the "P&S Agreement"); and WHEREAS, simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Lease, Trans Healthcare, Inc. and its affiliates and subsidiaries identified on Exhibit B-1 attached hereto and made a part hereof (collectively, "Guarantor") have unconditionally guaranteed the obligations of Tenant under this Lease for the benefit of Landlord pursuant to that certain Guaranty (the "Lease Guaranty") dated as of an event date herewith; and WHEREAS, simultaneously with the execution and delivery of this Lease, Landlord, has made: (i) a loan to certain Affiliates of Tenant (collectively, "Borrower") in the original principal amount of $55,000,000 (the "Primary Loan"); and (ii) a mezzanine loan to Borrower in the original principal amount of $22,000,000 (the "Mezzanine Loan," together with the Primary Loan, the "Loan Transaction") provided that pursuant to the terms of that certain Cooperation Agreement between Borrower and Landlord, the principal amounts of the Primary Loan and the Mezzanine Loan may be resized in accordance with the terms of such Cooperation Agreement; and WHEREAS, Guarantor has, on a joint and several basis, unconditionally guaranteed the obligations of Borrower pursuant to the Loan Transaction (the "Loan Guaranty"); and 1
WHEREAS, the obligations of Guarantor with respect to the Loan Guaranty are included in the Lease Guaranty. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants, conditions and agreements set forth herein, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree that, by entering into this Lease, Landlord leases and demises the Premises to Tenant, and Tenant takes and hires the Premises from Landlord, for the Term (as hereinafter defined), upon the terms and conditions of this Lease. 1. Leased Property; Term. 1.1 Leased Property. Effective as of November 1, 2002, upon and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, Landlord hereby leases to Tenant, and Tenant hereby leases from Landlord, all of the following: 1.1.1 Land. The tracts, pieces and parcels of land more particularly described in Exhibits "A-1" through "A-6" attached hereto together with all rights, easements and interests appurtenant thereto, including, but not limited to, any streets or other public ways adjacent to such tracts, pieces and parcels of land, and any water or mineral rights with respect to such tracts, pieces and parcels of land owned by Landlord (collectively, the "Land"; each parcel of Land described in such Exhibits "A-1" through "A-6", as amended from time to time, and together with such appurtenances and rights with respect to such parcel, being referred to herein as a "Leased Land"). 1.1.2 Leased Improvements. All buildings (including, but not limited to, the facilities described by the common addresses set forth on Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof), structures, Fixtures (as hereinafter defined) and other improvements of every kind, including, but not limited to, alleyways and connecting tunnels, sidewalks, utility pipes, conduits and lines (on-site and off-site), parking areas and roadways appurtenant to such buildings and structures situated upon the Land as of the date hereof and Capital Alterations upon the Land (collectively, the "Leased Improvements"); and (a) Intangible Property. The interest, if any, of Landlord in and to any of the following intangible property owned by Landlord in connection with the Land and the Improvements (collectively, the "Intangibles"): (i) the identity or business of the Facilities as a going concern, including without limitation, any names or trade names by which the Facilities or any part thereof may be known, and all registrations for such names, if any, excluding, however, the names Millennium, Trans Healthcare, THI or derivations thereof; (ii) to the extent assignable or transferable, the interest, if any, of Landlord in and to each and every bond, guaranty and warranty concerning the Leased Improvements, including, without limitation, any roofing, air conditioning, heating, elevator and other bond, guaranty and warranty relating to the construction, maintenance or replacement of the Leased Improvements or any portion thereof; and (iii) the interest, if any, of Landlord in and to all Authorizations to the extent the same can be assigned or transferred in accordance with applicable law; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not include any CON issued to or held by Landlord which shall only be licensed to Tenant on a temporary basis, which license shall be revocable at any time by Landlord. If the law of any 2
State in which a Facility is located requires that a CON for the applicable Facility be issued to the applicable Tenant, such CON shall remain the property and possession of Landlord held, in trust, for the benefit of Landlord by Tenant pursuant to the revocable license herein contained and any Tenant shall take such actions as are necessary or desirable to convey such CON to Landlord as and when required by Landlord. SUBJECT, HOWEVER, to the Permitted Encumbrances (as hereinafter defined). Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, each Tenant shall be jointly and severally liable for the obligations, agreements, undertakings and other liabilities of each other Tenant hereunder; provided, however, that, without limitation of the joint and several nature of the obligations of each Tenant hereunder, the possessory and leasehold rights conveyed to each Tenant shall be limited and confined to the applicable Facility identified as being leased and operated by such Tenant on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof and the Leased Property on which such Facility is located. 1.2 Term. Landlord hereby leases the Premises to Tenant for an initial term (the "Initial Term") of ten (10) years commencing as of November 1, 2002 and expiring at midnight on October 31, 2012 (the "Initial Expiration Date"). Subject to the terms of Section 1.3 below, Tenant shall have two (2) options (each a "Renewal Option") to extend the Initial Term of this Lease for five (5) years each (collectively, the "Extended Terms" and, each, individually, an "Extended Term"). Landlord shall also have the limited right to extend the Initial Term or any Extended Term to facilitate the Operational Transfer as to one or more Leased Properties, as more particularly described and discussed in Section 38 below or pursuant to Section 39 (each, a "Landlord Extension"). The Initial Term, together with any Extended Term timely and properly exercised by Tenant hereunder and any Landlord Extension are herein collectively referred to as the "Term"; the Initial Expiration Date as extended by any such Renewal Options or Landlord Extensions, is herein referred to as the "Expiration Date". 1.3 Exercise of Renewal Options. Tenant may exercise a Renewal Option with respect to all, but not less than all, of the Premises by providing written notice to Landlord of each such renewal (a "Renewal Notice") at least one (1) year but not more than eighteen (18) months prior to the expiration of the Initial Term or the first Extended Term, as applicable, on the express condition that, at the time Tenant gives a Renewal Notice as set forth above and at the commencement of the applicable Extended Term, no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing under this Lease. During each Extended Term, all of the terms and conditions of this Lease shall continue in full force and effect, except that the Fixed Rent for the initial Lease Year of any Extended Term shall be the greater of: (a) then current Fixed Rent in effect at the expiration of the Initial Term or the first Extended Term, as applicable, increased and adjusted upwards pursuant to the formula contained in Section 3.1.2 hereof; or (b) Fair Market Rental. The Fixed Rent payable by Tenant to Landlord for any subsequent Lease Year during an Extended Term shall escalate pursuant to, and in accordance with, Section 3.1.2 hereof. Within ninety (90) days after receipt by Landlord from Tenant of a Renewal Notice, the Fair Market Rental of each Leased Property shall be determined pursuant to the appraisal procedure described in Section 34 below. 3
2. Definitions. For all purposes of this Lease, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, (i) the terms defined in this Section have the meanings assigned to them in this Section and include the plural as well as the singular, (ii) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied at the time applicable, (iii) all references in this Lease to designated "Sections", "Subsections" and other subdivisions are to the designated Sections, Subsections and other subdivisions of this Lease and (iv) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Lease as a whole and not to any particular Section, Subsection or other subdivision: "Actuarial Correspondence" shall mean any and all correspondence, analysis, reports, studies or other information to or from any Tenant or any Guarantor or their respective insurance carriers, reinsurance providers, accountants, or from any Governmental Authorities or any Third Party Payor Program providers concerning such Tenant's malpractice or professional liability insurance or its reserves for expenses relating to malpractice or professional liability claims. "Actuarial Reports" shall mean any and all written reports, studies, analyses or reviews prepared by or behalf of any Tenant or any Guarantor or their respective insurance providers or carriers, whether quarterly or otherwise, concerning any Tenant's malpractice or professional liability insurance or such Tenant's reserves for expenses relating to malpractice or professional liability claims. "Additional Property" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 41. "Additional Rent" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2. "Adjusted Base Year Operating Income" shall mean the Base Year Operating Income adjusted to reflect the removal or deletion of any Leased Property from this Lease. "Affiliate" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling (including, but not limited to, all partners, directors, officers and members of such Person), controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with any such Person. A Person shall be deemed to control a corporation, a partnership, a trust, or a limited liability company if such Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person, through the ownership of voting securities, partnership interests or other equity interests. "Alterations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.1. "Allocated Base Year Operating Income" shall mean, for any Leased Property, the Base Year Operating Income for the applicable Leased Property set forth on Exhibit C attached hereto and made a part hereof. "Annual Capital Expenditure Budget" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.3.2. "AR Financing" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 21.2. 4
"Assigned Authorizations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 39.1.2. "Assigned Contracts" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 39.1.2. "Authorizations" shall mean any and all licenses, operating permits, Provider Agreements, CONs, certificates of exemption, approvals, waivers, variances and other governmental or "quasi-governmental" authorizations necessary or advisable for the use of any Facility for its Primary Intended Use and receipt of reimbursement or other payments under Medicare, Medicaid and any Third Party Payor Programs. "Authorization Collateral" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.3. "Award" shall mean all compensation, sums or anything of value awarded, paid or received in respect of a total or partial Condemnation. "BLS" shall mean Bureau of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor or any successor thereto. "Base Year Operating Income" shall mean the aggregate Operating Income for all of the Leased Properties for the period from September 1, 2001 through August 31, 2002, which Operating Income has been reduced by an amount equal to any and all so-called "CLIFF" adjustments (increases in Operating Income resulting from payment adjustments by CMS under the Balanced Budget Refinement Act of 1999 and the Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Benefits Improvement and Protection Act of 2000). Base Year Operating Income is set forth in Exhibit C attached hereto and made a part hereof on an aggregate basis and for each Leased Property. In the event that the number of licensed beds at any Facility is reduced at any time from and after the date hereof, the Base Year Operating Income (and the Allocated Base Year Operating Income for the applicable Facility) shall be reduced proportionally to reflect such reduction in the number of licensed beds as if such licensed beds had not been part of the Facility for the period from September 1, 2001 through August 31, 2002 "Business Day" shall mean each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday that is not a day on which national banks in the City of New York, New York are authorized, or obligated, by law or executive order, to close. "Capital Alterations" shall mean, with respect to any Leased Property: (i) the addition of one or more new buildings, or (ii) the annexation of one or more additional structures to any portion of any of the Leased Improvements on such Leased Property, or (iii) the expansion or contraction of the Leased Improvements on such Leased Property, or (iv) any alteration or modification affecting the foundation, floor slab, roof or roof structure, curtain wall, structural columns, beams or shafts or other structural components of any of the Leased Improvements on such Leased Property, or (v) any alteration or modification affecting any of the electrical, plumbing, life safety, heating, ventilating, air conditioning, elevator, conveyor or other operating systems serving any of the Leased Improvements on such Leased Property. "Capital Alterations" shall include, without limitation, (1) the construction of a new wing or new story on a Leased Property, (2) the repair, replacement, restoration, remodeling or rebuilding of the existing Leased Improvements on a Leased Property or any portion thereof, where the purpose and effect of such work is to provide a functionally new facility needed to provide services not 5
previously offered, and (3) any expansion, construction, renovation or conversion to increase or change the bed capacity of the Facility located on a Leased Property, to change the purpose for which such beds are utilized or to improve materially the quality of such Facility. "Capital Expenditure Account" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.3.1. "Capital Expenditure Deposits" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.3.1. "Capital Expenditure Difference" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.3.1. "Cash Flow" shall mean the net income of any Tenant arising from the applicable Facility as reflected on the income statement of Tenant plus (i) the provision for depreciation and amortization in such income statement; plus (ii) the provision for management fees in such income statement; plus (iii) the provision for income taxes in such income statement; plus (iv) the provision for Fixed Rent payments allocated to such Facility and interest and lease payments, if any, relating to such Facility in such income statement; minus (v) an imputed management fee equal to five percent (5%) of gross revenues of such Facility (net of contractual allowances); and minus (vi) a replacement reserve of $300.00 per licensed bed at such Facility per year (unless such Facility is a hospital, in which event the replacement reserve amount shall be $500 per licensed bed at such Facility per year). "Casualty" shall mean damage to one or more Leased Properties by fire, flood, windstorm, earthquake, act of God or other casualty. "Casualty Insurance Proceeds" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.2. "Census Information" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 25.3. "Change of Control" shall have the meaning set forth in the Lease Guaranty. "CMS" shall mean the United States Department of Health, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services or any successor agency thereto. "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. "Combination Lease" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 41. "CON" shall mean a certificate of need or similar permit or approval (not including conventional building permits) from a Governmental Authority related to the construction and/or operation of the Facility at any Leased Property for the use of a specified number of beds in a nursing facility, assisted living facility and/or rehabilitation hospital, or alteration of any such Facility or modifications of services provided at a Facility used as a nursing facility, assisted living facility and/or rehabilitation hospital. "Condemnation" shall mean, as to any Leased Property, (i) the exercise of any governmental power on such Leased Property, whether by legal proceedings or otherwise, by a Condemnor, (ii) a voluntary sale or transfer by Landlord to any Condemnor, either under threat of condemnation or while legal proceedings for condemnation are pending and (iii) a taking or 6
voluntary conveyance of all or part of such Leased Property, or any interest therein, or right accruing thereto or use thereof, as the result or in settlement of any condemnation or other eminent domain proceeding affecting such Leased Property whether or not the same shall have been actually commenced. "Condemnor" shall mean any public or quasi-public authority, or private corporation or individual, having the power of condemnation. "Conforming Appraisal" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 34.2. "Consent Expenses" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.2.6. "Cost of Living Index" shall mean the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, U.S. City Average (1982-1984 = 100), published by the BLS, or such other renamed index. If the BLS changes the publication frequency of the Cost of Living Index so that a Cost of Living Index is not available to make a cost-of-living adjustment as specified herein, the cost-of-living adjustment shall be based on the percentage difference between the Cost of Living Index for the closest preceding month for which a Cost of Living Index is available and the Cost of Living Index for the comparison month as required by this Lease. If the BLS changes the base reference period for the Cost of Living Index from 1982-84 = 100, the cost-of-living adjustment shall be determined with the use of such conversion formula or table as may be published by the BLS. If the BLS otherwise substantially revises, or ceases publication of, the Cost of Living Index, then a substitute index for determining cost-of-living adjustments, issued by the BLS or by a reliable governmental or other nonpartisan publication, shall be reasonably selected by Landlord and Tenant. "Covenant Replacement Event" shall have the meaning set forth in the Lease Guaranty. "Coverage Ratio" shall mean the ratio of (i) Cash Flow of any Facility for the applicable period; to (ii) the Fixed Rent payments allocated to such Facility and all other debt service and lease payments relating to such Facility for the applicable period. "CPI Increase" shall mean, for a particular Lease Year, the percentage increase (rounded to two (2) decimal places), if any, in (i) the Cost of Living Index published for the month that is two (2) months prior to the commencement of such Lease Year, over (ii) the Cost of Living Index published for the month that is two (2) months prior to the commencement of the immediately preceding Lease Year. "Date of Taking" means, as to the applicable Leased Property, the date the Condemnor has the right to possession of such Leased Property, or any portion thereof, in connection with a Condemnation. "Deleted Properties" shall mean any Leased Property for which this Lease is terminated pursuant to Section 15, 16 or 17.2 hereof; provided, however, that Deleted Properties shall not include any Leased Property removed herefrom pursuant to Section 42. "Deletion Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 17.9. 7
"Early Termination Event" shall mean, as to any Leased Property, the termination of this Lease prior to the stated Expiration Date hereof or the dispossession of the applicable Tenant as a result of an Event of Default. "Earnest Money Deposit" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 38. "Environmental Costs" shall mean costs of response, removal, remedial action, containment, cleanup, investigation, design, engineering and construction, damages for personal injuries and for injury to, destruction of or loss of property or natural resources, relocation or replacement costs, penalties, fines, charges or expenses, attorney's fees, expert fees, consultation fees, and court costs, and all amounts paid in investigating, defending or settling any of the foregoing, in connection with any Hazardous Substance. "Environmental Laws" shall mean any and all laws, order, rules or regulations pertaining to Hazardous Substances or that otherwise deal with, or relate to, air or water quality, air emissions, soil, contamination or pollution or protection of the environment. "ERISA" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. "Escrow Account" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.2. "Escrow Commencement Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.3.1. "Estoppel Certificate" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 25.15. "Event of Default" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 17.1. "Expiration Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.2. "Extended Term" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.2. "Facility" shall mean the facility or facilities located on the applicable Leased Property. "Facility Mortgage" shall mean any mortgage, deed of trust, or other security agreement securing any encumbrance placed on the applicable Leased Property in accordance with the provisions of Section 31. "Facility Mortgagee" shall mean the holder of any Facility Mortgage. "Facility Provider Agreements" shall mean Provider Agreements issued to or held by Tenant pursuant to which the Facilities are licensed, certified, approved or eligible to receive reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid or any Third Party Payor Program. "Facility Termination" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 39.3.1. "Fair Market Rental" shall mean, as determined by the appraisal procedures set forth in Section 34, the amount per annum that an uncompelled, willing tenant would pay, and an uncompelled, willing landlord would accept, at arm's length, for leasing of the Premises (or, if 8
applicable, any one or more, but less than all, of the Leased Properties) for the period of the Term (including, without limitation, any Extended Terms) remaining from and after the date as of which the Fair Market Rental is being determined. In addition to such other market factors as may be applicable in determining the Fair Market Rental, the Fair Market Rental shall be determined on the basis, and on the assumptions, that: (i) the Fair Market Rental may not include therein any rent, or method of rent calculation, that would adversely affect any landlord by virtue of it being a REIT or the ability of any such landlord to satisfy the requirements for maintaining its status as a REIT, (ii) Fixed Rent for the applicable Leased Properties will escalate pursuant to the provisions of Sections 1.3 and 3.1.2 hereof, (iii) all of the Leased Properties are in material compliance with any and all applicable laws, codes, ordinances and regulations and other Legal Requirements (and Insurance Requirements) and have in full force and effect, for the benefit of the aforesaid tenant, the Facilities and the applicable Leased Properties, any and all necessary or appropriate material permits, approvals, licenses, Provider Agreements and other consents comparable to the Authorizations necessary or advisable for use thereof in accordance with the respective Primary Intended Uses applicable thereto, (iv) the respective Facilities as to which Fair Market Rental is being determined have been repaired, maintained and otherwise kept in a condition contemplated and required by Section 9.1 hereof such that the Leased Properties are in a first class condition without any deferred maintenance or necessary capital repairs or replacements, (v) no allowance for, or reduction in, the Fair Market Rental shall be made on account of the absence of leasing commissions, tenant improvement allowances and other comparable inducements that may be typically or often payable to a replacement tenant rather than an existing tenant, and (vi) the aforesaid tenant shall have available to it, with respect to each Leased Property as to which the Fair Market Rental is being determined, the Term that then remains, and such number of Extended Terms as then remain unexercised, with respect to such Leased Properties under the terms of this Lease. "Fair Market Value" shall mean the price that a willing buyer not compelled to buy (but ready, willing and able to operate the applicable Leased Properties for their Primary Intended Uses) would pay a willing seller not compelled to sell for the applicable Leased Properties, including all Capital Alterations, and (i) assuming the same are unencumbered by this Lease but that the buyer has available and in good standing all of the permits, approvals, licenses, Provider Agreements and other consents comparable to the Authorizations necessary or advisable for the use and operation of the applicable Leased Properties for their respective Primary Intended Uses, (ii) determined in accordance with the appraisal procedures set forth in Section 34; (iii) not taking into account any reduction in value resulting from any indebtedness to which such Leased Properties are subject except as expressly provided herein below; (iv) not determined based solely on the replacement costs of the applicable Leased Properties, (v) assuming the Leased Properties are in compliance with any and all material laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of any Governmental Authorities (including, but not limited to, all Legal Requirements) and any and all Insurance Requirements; and (vi) assuming the Leased Properties are in a first class condition and repair with no deferred maintenance items or capital repair or replacements required and the Tenant has timely and completely satisfied its repair, maintenance and replacement obligations hereunder. In determining such Fair Market Value, the positive or negative effect on the value of the Leased Properties attributable to the interest rate, amortization schedule, maturity date, prepayment penalty and other terms and conditions of any encumbrance that is not removed, or to be removed, at or prior to the closing of the transaction as to which 9
such Fair Market Value determination is being made shall be taken into account. Fair Market Value shall be determined as of the projected date of the Option Closing. "Fiscal Year" shall mean the twelve (12) month period from January 1 to December 31. "First Lease Year" shall mean the period from November 4, 2002 through October 31, 2003. "Fixed Rent" shall mean, for the period from November 4, 2002 through the Expiration Date, rent at an annual rate of Five Million Nine Hundred Sixty-Two Thousand Five Hundred and No/100 Dollars ($5,962,500), as such amount shall be increased from time to time during the Term as set forth in Section 1.3 and Section 3.1.2 or, in the case of any New Lease, as such amount shall be adjusted pursuant to Section 42.1.1. "Fixtures" shall mean all permanently affixed equipment, machinery, elevators, conveyors, fixtures, commercial kitchen equipment, laundry equipment and other items of real and/or personal property, including, without limitation, all components thereof, now and hereafter located in, on or used in connection with, and permanently affixed to or incorporated into the Leased Improvements, including, without limitation, all furnaces, boilers, heaters, electrical equipment, heating, plumbing, lighting, ventilating, refrigeration, incineration, air and water pollution control, waste disposal, air-cooling and air-conditioning systems and apparatus, sprinkler systems and fire and theft protection equipment, and built-in oxygen and vacuum systems, all of which, to the greatest extent permitted by law, are hereby deemed by the parties hereto to constitute real property, together with all replacements, modifications, alterations and additions thereto. "Form SNDA" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 20.1. "Full Replacement Cost" shall mean the actual replacement cost of the applicable property including an increased cost of construction endorsement, without reduction or deduction for depreciation, as determined for any applicable property by an accredited appraiser approved by Landlord, and at Tenant's sole cost and expense, hereinafter referred to as "impartial appraiser", every five years during the Term, and at such other times that either party believes that the full replacement cost of such property has increased or decreased. Tenant shall forthwith, on receipt of such determination by such impartial appraiser, give written notice thereof to Landlord. The determination of such impartial appraiser shall be final and binding on the parties hereto. "GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or agencies with similar functions of comparable stature and authority within the accounting profession), or in such other statements by such entity as may be in general use by significant segments of the U.S. accounting profession. "Governmental Authority" shall mean any court, board, agency, licensing agency, commission, office or authority or any governmental unit (federal, state, county, district, municipal, city or otherwise) whether now or hereafter in existence, including, without 10
limitation, CMS, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, any state licensing agency and/or any state Medicaid agency and any quasi-governmental authorities. "Hazardous Substances" shall mean and include Hazardous Waste, medical waste and any hazardous substance defined as such in the Occupational Safety & Health Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, or any other federal, state or local statute, law, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order or decree regulating, relating to, or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning, any hazardous substance or material, as now or at anytime hereafter in effect. "Hazardous Waste" shall mean and include any material that is defined as a hazardous waste under RCRA as now or at any time hereafter in effect. "Health Department" shall mean any federal, state or local health department, licensing agency, governing body or comparable agency. "Identification Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 24.2. "Impositions" shall mean, for each applicable Leased Property, collectively, all taxes (including, without limitation, all taxes imposed under the laws of the State in which the Leased Property is located), as such laws may be amended from time to time, and all ad valorem, sales and use, single business, gross receipts, transaction privilege, rent or similar taxes as the same relate to, or are imposed upon, any rents from the applicable Leased Property or upon Tenant or its business conducted upon the applicable Leased Property (but excluding any tax based on the net income or net profit of Landlord derived from any such rents), assessments (including, without limitation, all assessments for public improvements or benefits, whether or not commenced or completed prior to the date hereof and whether or not to be completed within the Term), water, sewer or other rents and charges, excises, tax levies, fees (including, without limitation, license, permit, inspection, authorization and similar fees), and all other governmental charges, in each case whether general or special, ordinary or extraordinary, or foreseen or unforeseen, of every character in respect of the applicable Leased Property or any rents therefrom or the business conducted thereon by Tenant (including all interest and penalties thereon due to any failure in payment by Tenant), which at any time prior to (including, without limitation, a "roll-back" of any such taxes or charges for periods prior to the date hereof), during or in respect of the Term hereof may be assessed or imposed on or in respect of, or be a lien upon, (a) Landlord or Landlord's interest in such Leased Property, (b) such Leased Property or any part thereof or any rent therefrom or any estate, right, title or interest therein, or (c) any occupancy, operation, use or possession of, or sales from, or activity conducted on, or in connection with, such Leased Property or the leasing or use of such Leased Property or any part thereof by Tenant; provided, however, nothing contained in this Lease shall be construed to require Tenant to pay any tax based on net income imposed on Landlord or any other Person. "Initial Expiration Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.2. "Insurance Premiums" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14.2. "Insurance Requirements" shall mean all terms of any insurance policy required by this Lease with respect to the applicable Leased Property(ies) and all requirements of the issuer of any such policy. 11
"Intangibles" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.1.2(a). "Land" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.1.1. "Landlord Appraiser Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 34.2. "Landlord's Appraiser" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 34.2. "Landlord Determination" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 34.1. "Landlord Indemnified Parties" shall mean Landlord's Affiliates and Landlord's and its Affiliates' agents, employees, owners, partners, members, managers, contractors, representatives, consultants, attorneys, auditors, officers and directors. "Landlord's Representatives" shall mean Landlord's agents, employees, contractors, consultants, attorneys, auditors, architects and other representatives. "LC Election" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4.2. "Lease" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereof. "Lease Guaranty" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Lease Year" shall mean the First Lease Year and each twelve (12) month period of the Term after the First Lease Year. "Leased Improvements" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.1. "Leased Property" shall mean a parcel of Leased Land, the Leased Improvements located thereon and the Intangibles and the Easement Rights associated therewith from time to time leased by Landlord to Tenant hereunder. "Leased Property Condition Report" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.1.1. "Legal Requirements" shall mean, as to any Leased Property or Facility, all federal, state, county, parish, municipal and other governmental statutes, laws, rules, orders, regulations, guidelines, ordinances, judgments, decrees and injunctions affecting such Leased Property and/or Tenant's Personal Property or the maintenance, construction, use, operation or alteration thereof, whether now or hereafter enacted and in force, including, without limitation, (i) Authorizations, (ii) building codes and zoning regulations and (iii) any statutes, laws, rules, orders, regulations, ordinances, judgments, decrees and injunctions that (x) require repairs, modifications or alterations in or to such Leased Property, (y) adversely affect the use thereof or (z) regulate the transport, handling, use, storage or disposal or require the cleanup or other treatment of any Hazardous Substances. "Lending Institution" shall mean any insurance company, federally insured commercial or savings bank, national banking association, savings and loan association, credit union, employees' welfare, pension or retirement fund or system, corporate profit sharing or pension 12
trust, college or university, endowment fund, REIT, investment bank, commercial credit lending corporation, or other institutional lender or financial enterprise, in each case acting on its own behalf or as agent on behalf of other Lending Institutions. "Letter of Credit" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4.2. "Limited Termination Election" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 17.2. "Litigation Costs" shall mean all costs reasonably incurred by Landlord or any Landlord Indemnified Parties in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this Lease and/or in connection with any third-party claim against Landlord, any Landlord Indemnified Parties or any Leased Property arising on account of or in connection with any default or Event of Default hereunder by Tenant, including, without limitation, costs reasonably incurred by Landlord or any Landlord Indemnified Parties in investigating, settling and/or prosecuting claims and for reasonable attorneys' and legal assistant fees and expenses, court costs and fees and reasonable consultant and witness fees and expenses. "Loan Guaranty" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Loan Documents" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 17.1.20. "Loan Transaction" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Losses" shall mean all claims, demands, expenses, actions, judgments, damages, penalties, fines, liabilities, losses of every kind and nature, suits, administrative proceedings, costs and fees, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' and reasonable consultants' fees and expenses, and Environmental Costs. "Medicaid" shall mean that certain program of medical assistance, funded jointly by the federal government and the states for impoverished individuals who are aged, blind and/or disabled, and for members of families with dependent children, which program is more fully described in Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (S)(S) 1396 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. "Medicare" shall mean that certain federal program providing health insurance for eligible elderly and other individuals, under which physicians, hospitals, nursing facilities, home health care and other providers are reimbursed for certain covered services they provide to the beneficiaries of such program, which program is more fully described in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (S)(S) 1395 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. "Mezzanine Loan" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Mezzanine Loan Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the Lease Guaranty. "Mezz Security" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4.1. "Minimum Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Exhibit D attached hereto and made a part hereof. 13
"Mortgage Loan Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the Lease Guaranty. "Net Operating Income" shall mean, for any period, the amount by which Operating Income for such period exceeds Operating Expenses for such period. "Net Worth" shall mean an amount equal to the total consolidated book value of the assets of the Tenant or each Tenant, as applicable minus the total consolidated liabilities of the Tenant or each Tenant, as applicable. "New Lease" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 42.1. "Notice" shall mean any note, notice, or report of any suit, proceeding, investigation, order, consent order, injunction, writ, award, or action related to or affecting or indicating the treatment, storage, handling, disposal, generation, spill, release or discharge of any Hazardous Substances in, on, under, about or affecting any of the Leased Properties or any violation of Environmental Laws as they apply to any Leased Property. "Officer's Certificate" shall mean a certificate of Tenant collectively, or each Tenant, as applicable, signed by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, the chief operating officer, the chief financial officer, the general counsel or the general partner or managing member, as applicable, of each Tenant in the case of a certificate of Tenant collectively, or of such particular Tenant in the case of a certificate of an individual Tenant. "Operating Expenses" shall mean, with respect to any or all of the Leased Properties, and without duplication, all costs and expenses incurred by Tenant determined on an accrual basis, relating to the operation, maintenance, repair, use and management of such Leased Property(ies), including, without limitation, utilities, repairs and maintenance, insurance, Impositions, advertising expenses, payroll and related taxes, equipment lease payments and actual management fees, but excluding (i) Fixed Rent, (ii) depreciation, amortization and other non-cash expenses of the Leased Property(ies); provided, however, that such costs and expenses shall be subject to reasonable adjustment by Landlord to normalize such costs and expenses, and (iii) capital expenditures. "Operating Income" shall mean all revenue derived from the operation of any or all of the Leased Properties or a Leased Property, as the case may be, by Tenant from whatever source, determined on an accrual basis, including, but not limited to, Patient Revenues, but excluding (a) sales, use and occupancy or other taxes on receipts required to be accounted for by Tenant to any Governmental Authority, (b) non-recurring revenues as reasonably determined by Landlord (e.g. proceeds from a sale of assets or refinancing), (c) Casualty Insurance Proceeds and Awards (other than business interruption or other loss of income insurance related to business interruption or loss of income for the Leased Property(ies) in question), and (d) any proceeds from the permitted sale or refinancing of any Leased Property or recapitalization of the applicable Tenant(s). In addition, if required by Landlord, income accrued but not paid in cash during an accounting period shall be adjusted for an allowance for doubtful accounts in a manner consistent with historical net realizable value. "Operational Transfer" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 39.1.2. 14
"Operator Reports" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.2.3.5. "Option" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 38. "Option Closing" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 38. "Option Exercise Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 38. "Option Purchase Price" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 38. "Overdue Rate" shall mean on any date, a rate equal to four percent (4%) per annum above the Prime Rate, but in no event greater than the maximum rate then permitted under applicable law. Interest at the aforesaid rates shall be determined for actual days elapsed based upon a 360 day year. "P&S Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Patient Revenues" shall mean any and all revenue and income derived from a Facility or the Facilities, as applicable, in the ordinary course of business from the provision of medical services or therapeutic care (exclusive of patient deposits). "Per Bed Allocation" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.3.1. "Permitted Encumbrances" shall mean (a) all easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, agreements and other matters with respect to the Premises that are of record as of the date hereof; (b) all easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, agreements and other matters with respect to the Premises, whether or not of record, of which Tenant has knowledge as of the date hereof or that are executed by Tenant or approved or consented to by Tenant; (c) any easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions or utility agreements entered into by Landlord with respect to a Leased Property after the date hereof; (d) any agreement required pursuant to any Legal Requirement entered into by Landlord with respect to a Leased Property after the date hereof; (e) any real estate taxes, assessments and other governmental levies, fees or charges imposed with respect to a Leased Property(ies) that are not yet due and payable; (f) any zoning, building codes and other land use laws regulating the use or occupancy of any Leased Property(ies); (g) occupancy rights of residents and patients of the Facilities; and (h) any other matters affecting title to the Premises or any portion thereof caused by Tenant or its assignees or sublessees or their respective agents or employees. "Person" shall mean any individual, sole proprietorship, corporation, general partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, bank, trust, estate, unincorporated organization, Governmental Authority, endowment fund or other form of entity. "Plans and Specifications" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.2.1. "Policies" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14.2. 15
"Portfolio Coverage Ratio" shall mean the ratio of (i) the Cash Flow for all of the Facilities for the applicable period; to (ii) Fixed Rent and all other debt service and lease payments relating to such Facilities for the applicable period. "Premises" shall mean all of the Land, the Leased Improvements and the Intangibles from time to time leased hereunder by Landlord to Tenant. "Prior Period Fixed Rent" shall mean, for any Lease Year, the Fixed Rent for the immediately preceding Lease Year. "Prior Period Operating Income" shall mean, for any Lease Year, the Operating Income for the period commencing two (2) months prior to the commencement of the preceding Lease Year and expiring two (2) months prior to the Lease Year for which the Prior Period Operating Income is being determined generated by Tenant for all of the Leased Properties that are subject to this Lease during such period. By way of illustration only, if the Prior Period Operating Income were being determined for the Lease Year commencing as of November 1, 2005 and expiring October 31, 2006, the Prior Period Operating Income applicable to such Lease Year would be determined for the period commencing as of September 1, 2004 and expiring August 31, 2005 on the basis of the Leased Properties subject to this Lease during such period. "Primary Intended Use" shall mean, as to each Facility, the type of healthcare facility corresponding to such Facility on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof. "Primary Loan" shall have the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Prime Rate" shall mean, on any date, a rate equal to the annual rate on such date announced by the Wall Street Journal to be the "prime rate." "Property Removal Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 17.9. "Property Transfer Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 42.1. "Property Collateral" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 21.1.1. "Provider Agreements" shall mean any agreements under which healthcare facilities are eligible to receive payment under Medicare, Medicaid or any Third Party Payor Program from Governmental Authorities or non-public entities. "Rating Agencies" shall mean each of S&P, Moody's and Fitch or any other nationally recognized statistical rating agency that has been designated by Landlord. "RCRA" shall mean the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability act, in either case as amended from time to time. "Reimbursement Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 39.3.2. "REIT" shall mean a real estate investment trust. 16
"REIT Requirements" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 35. "Renewal Option" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.2. "Rent" shall mean collectively, Fixed Rent and Additional Rent. "Rent Escalation Condition" shall mean, as to any Lease Year, that: the Prior Period Operating Income determined for such Lease Year equals or exceeds seventy-five percent (75%) of the Adjusted Base Year Operating Income determined on the basis of those Leased Properties that are subject to this Lease during the period for which the Prior Period Operating Income is determined. By way of illustration only, for purposes of determining whether the Rent Escalation Condition has been satisfied for the Lease Year commencing as of November 1, 2005 and expiring as of October 31, 2006, the Prior Period Operating Income for the period commencing as of September 1, 2004 and expiring as of August 31, 2005 would be compared to the Adjusted Base Year Operating Income for such period for the Leased Properties that are subject to this Lease during such period to determine whether such Prior Period Operating Income equals or exceeds seventy-five percent (75%) of the Adjusted Base Year Operating Income for such period. "Replacement Operator" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 24.2. "Reserve Event" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.2.3.2. "Restoration Plans and Specifications" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.4.1. "Section 41 Date" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 41. "Section 41 Lease" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 41. "Security Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4.1. "Security Deposit" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.4.1. "Service Guarantors" shall have the meaning set forth in the Lease Guaranty. "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto. "Successor Operator" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 39.1.2. "Tax Credit" shall have the meaning set forth in the P&S Agreement. "Tenant" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble hereof. "Tenant Org Docs" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.1. "Tenant Parties" shall mean any Tenant's agents, employees, Affiliates, invitees, visitors, patients, contractors, subcontractors, physicians, licensees, officers, directors, representatives and comparable parties. 17
"Tenant's Appraiser" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 34.2. "Tenant's Personal Property" shall mean all motor vehicles, machinery, equipment, furniture, furnishings, movable walls or partitions, computers or trade fixtures or all other personal property, and consumable inventory and supplies, now owned or hereafter acquired by Tenant and located on the applicable Leased Property or used in Tenant's business on such Leased Property, including, without limitation, all modifications, replacements, alterations and additions to such personal property installed at the expense of Tenant, except items, if any, included within the definition of Fixtures. "Tenant's Proportionate Share" shall mean each Tenant's allocable share of the Rent obligations set forth hereunder, which Tenant's Proportionate Share is expressed as a percentage and set forth on Schedule 2 attached hereto and made a part hereof and subject to adjustment as described in Sections 17.9, 41 and 42. "Term" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.2. "Terminated Lease Properties" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 17.2. "Third Appraiser" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 34.2. "Third Party Payor Programs" shall mean any third party payor programs pursuant to which healthcare facilities qualify for payment or reimbursement for medical or therapeutic cure or other goods or services rendered, supplied or administered to any admittee, occupant, resident or patient by or from any Governmental Authority, bureau, corporation, agency, commercial insurer, non-public entity, "HMO," "PPO" or any comparable party. "Transfer Authorization" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 39.1.2. "Transfer" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 24.1. "Transfer Criteria" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 24.2. "Transferred Premises" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 41. "Trans" shall mean Trans Healthcare, Inc., i.e. the "Parent" as defined in the Lease Guaranty. "Transition Authorizations" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.10. "Transition Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 39.1.1. "Transition Property" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 39.1.1. "UCC" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.3.1. "Unsuitable For Its Primary Intended Use" shall mean a state or condition of the Facility(ies) located at the applicable Leased Property such that, by reason of Casualty or Condemnation, in the reasonable judgment of Landlord, the Facility(ies) cannot be operated for 18
its (their) primary intended use(s) taking into account, among other relevant factors, the number of usable beds affected by such Casualty or Condemnation; provided, however that such Facility(ies) shall not be deemed to be "Unsuitable For Its Primary Intended Use" if such Facility(ies) can, within eighteen (18) months after the occurrence of such Casualty or Condemnation, be restored to substantially the same state and condition as existed immediately prior to such Casualty or Condemnation. "Work" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.4.1. 3. Rent. 3.1 Fixed Rent. 3.1.1 Rental Payments Tenant shall pay to Landlord, in advance and without demand, on or prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of each calendar month during the Term in lawful money of the United States of America, by wire transfer and pursuant to the wiring instructions attached hereto as Schedule 3.1.1, or at such place or to such person(s), firm(s) or corporation(s) as Landlord from time to time may designate in writing, Fixed Rent. Landlord may, by written notice to Tenant at any time and from time to time, elect to require that Rent (or portions thereof designated by Landlord) that is payable to Landlord hereunder be paid to a lock box. Fixed Rent (and Additional Rent in those instances described in Section 3.3 below) shall be paid by Tenant to Landlord in advance of the fifteenth (15th) day of each calendar month during the Term in equal, consecutive monthly installments; provided, however, that the first payment of Fixed Rent (and Additional Rent in those instances described in Section 3.3 below) shall be payable on November 4, 2002 and prorated for the period from and including November 4, 2002 through November 14, 2002, and the last monthly payment of Fixed Rent (and Additional Rent in those instances described in Section 3.3 below) shall be prorated as to any partial month. 3.1.2 Rental Amounts. Fixed Rent for the First Lease Year shall be $5,962,500 per annum, payable by Tenant to Landlord in equal monthly installments of $496,875. Each Tenant's allocable share of Fixed Rent shall be equal to the product of (i) the Tenant's Proportionate Share for such Tenant set forth on Schedule 2 attached hereto and made a part thereof; and (ii) the Fixed Rent due hereunder, as applicable. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the existence of a Tenant's Proportionate Share and the allocation of Fixed Rent described in the preceding sentence or elsewhere in this Lease does not change the joint and several nature of the obligation of each Tenant to pay Rent hereunder and otherwise perform the duties and obligations of Tenant hereunder (it being acknowledged that each Tenant shall be jointly and severally liable for any and all obligations of each other Tenant hereunder, including, but not limited to, each individual Tenant's obligations to pay Rent). Commencing upon the second (2nd) Lease Year of the Initial Term, and upon the commencement of each Lease Year to occur thereafter during the Term (including during Extended Terms except as noted below with respect to the first Lease Year in any Extended Term), the Fixed Rent for such Lease Year shall be an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Prior Period Fixed Rent applicable to such Lease Year and (ii) the product of (a) the Prior Period Fixed Rent applicable to such Lease Year and (b) the amount equal to the greater of (x) three percent (3%) or (y) fifty percent (50%) of the CPI Increase, expressed as a percentage, for such Lease Year for which 19
such calculation is being performed; provided, however, that (i) the Fixed Rent for the first Lease Year of any Extended Term shall be in the amount determined and described in Section 1.3 above; and (ii) if the Rent Escalation Condition has not been satisfied with respect to such Lease Year (i.e. the Prior Period Operating Income for such Lease Year does not equal or exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the Adjusted Base Year Operating Income allocable to the period for which the Prior Period Operating Income has been determined), the Fixed Rent for such Lease Year shall be equal to the Prior Period Fixed Rent. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, if the Rent Escalation Condition fails with respect to any one or more Lease Years, the Fixed Rent determined for the next Lease Year with respect to which the Rent Escalation Condition is satisfied shall be determined as if the Rent Escalation Condition had been satisfied for all previous Lease Years and the Fixed Rent had been escalated pursuant to, and in accordance with, the terms of this Section 3.1.2 for all prior Lease Years. By way of illustration only, if: (xx) the Rent Escalation Condition has failed for both the Lease Year commencing as of November 1, 2006 and expiring as of October 31, 2007 and the Lease Year commencing as of November 1, 2007 and expiring October 31, 2008; but (yy) the Rent Escalation Condition is satisfied for the Lease Year commencing as of November 1, 2008 and expiring as of October 31, 2009, the Fixed Rent for the Lease Year commencing as of November 1, 2008 and expiring as of October 31, 2009 shall be determined as if the Rent Escalation Condition for the two preceding Lease Years (and all other Lease Years) had been satisfied such that the Fixed Rent for the Lease Year commencing as of November 1, 2008 and expiring as of October 31, 2009 shall include, and be determined on the basis of, the escalations for all prior Lease Years which would have occurred pursuant to this Section 3.1.2 had the Rent Escalation Condition for all prior Lease Years been satisfied. 3.1.3 Fixed Rent Determinations. Except with respect to the first Lease Year of any Extended Term, promptly after the publication of the Cost of Living Index for the tenth (10th) month during any Lease Year, Landlord shall calculate the CPI Increase and the Fixed Rent for the next Lease Year and submit its determination of Fixed Rent for the next Lease Year for Tenant's review and approval, which determination shall be deemed approved absent written notice from Tenant setting forth in reasonable specificity and detail any errors in such determination by Landlord and within five (5) Business Days after its submission to Tenant. The determination of Fixed Rent by Landlord shall be deemed correct and approved by Tenant absent manifest error in its determination on the part of Landlord. In the event Landlord and Tenant are unable to determine Fixed Rent for any Lease Year on or prior to the commencement of such Lease Year, Tenant shall pay Fixed Rent for such Lease Year assuming a three percent (3%) increase over Prior Period the Fixed Rent applicable to such Lease Year until the correct Fixed Rent is determined for such Lease Year. If the Fixed Rent ultimately determined for any such Lease Year exceeds the assumed amount, Tenant shall pay any deficiency, together with interest thereon, at the Prime Rate, with the first installment of Fixed Rent owing after such determination is made. If the Fixed Rent ultimately determined for any such Lease Year is less than the assumed amount, any excess amounts paid by Tenant on account of the Fixed Rent for such Lease Year shall be credited against the next installment of Fixed Rent due and owing hereunder. At either party's written request, following the determination of Fixed Rent for a particular Lease Year, both parties shall execute and enter into an amendment to this Lease memorializing the Fixed Rent payable with respect to such Lease Year promptly, and in any event within five (5) Business Days, after receipt of such request by the non-requesting party. 20
3.2 Additional Rent. In addition to Fixed Rent payable with respect to the Premises, Tenant shall pay and discharge as and when due and payable the following (collectively "Additional Rent") (any costs or expenses paid or incurred by Landlord on behalf of Tenant that constitute Additional Rent shall be reimbursed by Tenant to Landlord promptly, and in any event within ten (10) Business Days, after the presentation by Landlord to Tenant of invoices therefor): 3.2.1 Impositions. Subject to the escrow provisions contained in Section 3.3 below, Tenant shall pay all Impositions when due, and regardless of the period to which they relate, and in any event before any fine, penalty, interest or cost may be added for non-payment, such payments to be made directly to the taxing authorities where feasible, and shall, promptly upon request, furnish to Landlord copies of official receipts or other satisfactory proof evidencing such payments. If any such Imposition may, at the option of the taxpayer, lawfully be paid in installments (whether or not interest shall accrue on the unpaid balance of such Imposition), Tenant may exercise the option to pay same (and any accrued interest on the unpaid balance of such Imposition) in installments (provided no such installments shall extend beyond the Term) and, in such event, shall pay such installments during the Term before any fine, penalty, premium, further interest or cost may be added thereto. 3.2.2 Utility Charges. Tenant shall pay any and all charges for electricity, power, gas, oil, water, sanitary and storm sewer, refuse collection, medical waste disposal and other utilities used or consumed in connection with each Leased Property during the Term. In the event Landlord is billed directly by any utility company for any utilities or services supplied to Tenant during the Term, Landlord shall send Tenant the bill and Tenant shall pay the same before it is due. Landlord shall have no obligation or liability with respect to any interruption or failure in the supply of any such utilities. 3.2.3 Insurance Premiums. Tenant shall pay all premiums for the insurance coverage required to be maintained pursuant to Section 14 hereof. 3.2.4 Other Charges. Tenant shall pay all other amounts, liabilities, obligations, costs and expenses paid or incurred with respect to the ownership, repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance and operation of the Premises. 3.2.5 Late Payment of Rent. If any installment of Fixed Rent or Additional Rent (but only as to those Additional Rent payments that are payable directly to Landlord or Landlord's agent or assignee) shall not be paid on its due date, Tenant will pay to Landlord for such overdue installment, on demand, (i) interest computed at the Overdue Rate on the amount of such installment, from the due date of such installment to the date of payment thereof and (ii) an administrative fee of One Thousand Dollars ($1,000.00). In the event of any failure by Tenant to pay any Additional Rent when due, Tenant shall promptly pay and discharge, as Additional Rent, every fine, penalty, interest and cost that may be added for non-payment or late payment of such items. Landlord shall have all legal, equitable and contractual rights, powers and remedies provided either in this Lease or by statute or otherwise in the case of non-payment of Rent. 21
3.2.6 Consent Expenses. Tenant shall pay, as Additional Rent, on behalf of Landlord, or reimburse Landlord for, any and all of the costs and expenses paid or incurred by Landlord, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees, in connection with any of the following activities undertaken by or on behalf of Landlord under this Lease: (i) the review by Landlord or Landlord's Representatives of any notices, reports or other information required to be submitted to Landlord by Tenant pursuant to the terms hereof, including, without limitation, financial statements, Annual Capital Expenditure Budgets, Officer's Certificates, Estoppel Certificates, Annual Budgets and Operator Reports; (ii) any inspection performed by Landlord or any of Landlord's Representatives of one or more Leased Properties pursuant to any inspection rights granted hereunder; (iii) the exercise by Tenant of the Option, whether or not the purchase and sale of the Premises is consummated; (iv) the review, execution, negotiation or delivery of any consent, waiver, estoppel, subordination agreement or approval requested of Landlord by Tenant hereunder, including, without limitation, any request for consent to Alterations, any so-called "landlord's waiver", or the negotiation and approval of the terms of, and instruments associated with, any AR Financing; (v) the review by Landlord or Landlord's Representatives of any Plans and Specifications or Restoration Plans and Specifications; (vi) the review by Landlord or Landlord's Representatives, of any request by Tenant for any other approval or consent hereunder, or any waiver of any obligation of Tenant hereunder; (vii) the negotiation by Landlord or Landlord's Representatives of the terms of instruments requested by Landlord of Tenant in connection with any Facility Mortgage; (viii) any assistance provided by Landlord in connection with a permitted contest pursuant to Section 13; (ix) any review by Landlord of invoices, bills, receipts and other documents required to be reviewed by Landlord, in its reasonable discretion, to monitor Tenant's compliance with the terms of this Lease in respect of Impositions, utility charges, insurance premiums or any other provisions hereunder requiring Tenant to make payments to any third party; (x) the establishment and maintenance by Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee of any bank or investment account pursuant to Section 3.3 or 11.3; and (xi) any other negotiation, request or other activity comparable to any of the foregoing (collectively, such expenses, "Consent Expenses"). Tenant shall reimburse Landlord for (or pay on behalf of Landlord) any Consent Expenses promptly, and in any event within fifteen (15) Business Days, after the presentation by Landlord to Tenant of invoices therefor. 3.3 Escrow Deposits. 3.3.1 Escrow. Tenant shall, on the first day of the first calendar month commencing after the date on which the aggregate amount of Impositions and insurance premiums payable from and after November 4, 2002 is greater than or equal to the Tax Credit (the "Escrow Commencement Date"), and on the first day of each calendar month thereafter during the Term, pay to and deposit with Landlord a sum equal to one twelfth (1/12th) of the Impositions to be levied, charged, filed, assessed or imposed upon or against the Premises within one (1) year after the Escrow Commencement Date (or any subsequent twelve (12) month period) and a sum equal to-one-twelfth (1/12th) of the premiums for the insurance policies required pursuant to Section 14 hereof that are payable within one (1) year after said Escrow Commencement Date (or any subsequent twelve (12) month period). If the amount of the Impositions to be levied, charged, assessed or imposed or insurance premiums to be paid within the one (1) year period following the Escrow Commencement Date (or any subsequent twelve (12) month period) hereunder cannot be determined as of the Escrow Commencement Date (or 22
the commencement of any subsequent twelve (12) month period), such amount for the purpose of computing the deposit to be made by Tenant hereunder shall be estimated by Landlord with an appropriate adjustment to be promptly made between Landlord and Tenant as soon as such amount becomes determinable. Landlord may, at its option, from time to time require that any particular deposit be greater than one-twelfth (1/12th) of the estimated Imposition and/or insurance premium amount payable within one (1) year after the Escrow Commencement Date (or the commencement of any subsequent twelve (12) month period), if such additional deposit is required to provide a sufficient fund from which to make payment of all Impositions on or before the next due date of any installment thereof, or to make payment of any required insurance premiums not later than the due date thereof. Tenant shall deliver to Landlord copies of all notices, demands, claims, bills and receipts in relation to the Impositions and insurance premiums promptly upon receipt thereof by Tenant. The actual or estimated amounts on account of Impositions and insurance premiums shall be adjusted annually. 3.3.2 Landlord's Deposit. On the date hereof, Landlord shall deposit, in an account (the "Escrow Account") with Lending Institution satisfactory to Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee, in the sole discretion of Landlord or such Facility Mortgagee, an amount equal to the Tax Credit. The Tax Credit and escrow deposits made by Tenant pursuant to this Section 3.3 may be commingled with other assets of Landlord or such Facility Mortgagee. The Tax Credit shall be applied by Landlord or such Facility Mortgagee pursuant to the terms of this Section 3.3, in the same manner and fashion as an escrow deposit made by Tenant to Landlord pursuant to Section 3.3.3 for purposes of the payment of Impositions and insurance premiums. 3.3.3 Use of Deposits. Tenant shall pay any and all Impositions and insurance premiums when due and regardless of whether or not the funds then held in the Escrow Account are sufficient to reimburse Tenant therefor. The Tax Credit and the sums deposited by Tenant under this Section 3.3 shall be held by Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee, and, provided that no Event of Default exists hereunder, shall be used to reimburse Tenant for any Impositions and/or insurance premiums, as applicable, paid by Tenant, upon delivery by Tenant to Landlord or such Facility Mortgagee, as applicable, of documentation evidencing the payment of such Impositions and/or insurance premiums, which reimbursement shall be provided within thirty (30) days after the presentation of such evidence. Any such deposits may be commingled with other assets of Landlord or such Facility Mortgagee, and shall be deposited in the Escrow Account and Landlord shall not be liable to Tenant or any other person for any consequent loss of principal or interest of funds held in the Escrow Account. Furthermore, Landlord and its Facility Mortgagee shall bear no responsibility for the financial condition of, nor any act or omission by, the Lending Institution at which the Escrow Account is located. The interest from such deposits shall be retained in the Escrow Account to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.3. If Tenant fails to pay any Impositions or insurance premiums when due and owing hereunder to the applicable taxing authority or insurance carrier, Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee may, but shall not be obligated to, pay such Impositions or insurance premiums from the funds in the Escrow Account pursuant to this Section 3.3. Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default, Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee may apply any funds held in the Escrow Account to cure such Event of Default or on account any damages suffered or incurred by Landlord in connection therewith. 23
3.3.4 Deficits. Landlord shall have no liability whatsoever to Tenant if any deposits held by Landlord under this Section 3.3 are not sufficient to reimburse Tenant for any Imposition or insurance premium paid by Tenant. Landlord may change its estimate of any Imposition or insurance premium for any period on the basis of a change in an assessment or tax rate or on the basis of a prior miscalculation or for any other good faith reason. In such event, Tenant shall deposit with Landlord the amount in excess of the sums previously deposited with Landlord for the applicable period within ten (10) days after written request therefor from Landlord. 3.3.5 Transfers; Refund. In connection with any assignment of the Landlord's interest under this Lease, the original Landlord named herein and each successor in interest shall have the right to transfer all amounts deposited pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.3 and still in its possession to such assignee (as the subsequent holder of Landlord's interest in this Lease) and upon such transfer, the original Landlord named herein or the applicable successor in interest transferring the deposits shall thereupon be completely released from all liability with respect to such deposits so transferred, and Tenant shall look solely to said assignee, as the subsequent holder of Landlord's interest under this Lease, in reference thereto. As of the Expiration Date, any sums held by Landlord under this Section 3.3 (exclusive of interest) shall be: (i) first, applied to any credit owing from Tenant to Landlord pursuant to Section 4.3 on account of Impositions; and (ii) second, returned to Tenant, only as and when the conditions of Section 3.4.3 for the return of the Security Deposit have been met and provided that any and all Impositions or insurance premiums due and owing hereunder have been paid in full. 3.4 Security Deposit. 3.4.1 Cash Security Deposit; Application. Unless Landlord has made the LC Election, Tenant has paid Landlord upon the delivery of this Lease an amount equal to six (6) months of Fixed Rent (the "Security Amount") as security (the "Security Deposit") for the full and faithful performance by Tenant of each and every term, provision, covenant and condition of this Lease. Upon the occurrence of a Covenant Replacement Event, the Security Amount (and the Security Deposit) shall be increased by Tenant to an amount equal to two (2) years of Fixed Rent (determined from time to time as two (2) times the then applicable annual Fixed Rent), which Security Amount and Security Deposit shall be held, treated and applied in accordance with this Lease for all relevant purposes. Landlord may elect, in its sole discretion, to allow all or some portion of the Security Deposit to act as security for the Mezzanine Loan. Such unilateral election on the part of Landlord shall be made by written notice from Landlord to Tenant designating the portion of the Security Deposit that shall act as security for the Mezzanine Loan. Landlord may at any time, and from time to time, in its sole discretion, revoke such election or revise the portion of the Security Deposit that shall act as security for the Mezzanine Loan (the portion of the Security Deposit from time to time acting as security for the Mezzanine Loan, the "Mezz Security"). Promptly after any such election on the part of Landlord, Tenant shall execute such instruments, acknowledgements or agreements as Lender or Landlord shall reasonably require to govern the application, use, refund and replenishment of the Mezz Security. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Landlord shall have no liability or obligation to return that portion of the Security Deposit that constitutes any Mezz Security if and to the extent applied with respect to the Mezzanine Loan or such return is 24
prevented by the terms of any agreement relative thereto. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, Landlord may, but shall not be required to, use, apply or retain the whole or any part of the Security Deposit (whether by drawing upon the Letter of Credit, or applying the cash Security Deposit held by it) for the payment of any Rent in default or for any other sum that Landlord may expend or be required to expend by reason of Tenant's default, including any damages or deficiency in the reletting of the Premises, whether such damages or deficiency accrue before or after summary proceedings or other re-entry by Landlord. Tenant shall not be entitled to any interest on the Security Deposit and Landlord may commingle the Security Deposit with its other funds. In case of a sale or transfer of the Premises by Landlord, or any cessation of Landlord's interest therein, whether in whole or in part, Landlord may pay over any unapplied part of the Security Deposit (or, in the case of any such partial transfer or cessation, such portion as Landlord allocates to such part of the Premises, in its reasonable discretion) or transfer the Letter of Credit if the LC Election has been made, with any fees incident to such transfer being paid by Tenant (which transfer, in the case of any such partial transfer or cessation, shall require Tenant to cause the Letter Credit to be reissued as separate Letters of Credit satisfying the requirements of Section 3.4.2 as to the remaining Leased Properties) to the successor owner of the Premises, and from and after such payment, Landlord shall be relieved of all liability with respect thereto. The provisions of the preceding sentence shall apply to every subsequent sale or transfer of the Premises or any part thereof. 3.4.2 LC Election. At any time, and from time to time, Landlord may elect (such election, an "LC Election"), in its sole discretion and by written notice to Tenant, to cause Tenant to post the Security Deposit in the form of an irrevocable, standby Letter of Credit with a face value of the full Security Amount (the "Letter of Credit"). Promptly, and in any event within thirty (30) days after notice of the LC Election, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a Letter of Credit satisfying the requirements of this Section 3.4.2 in the place and stead of the cash Security Deposit, whereupon Landlord shall return any portion of a cash Security Deposit made by Tenant to Landlord not previously applied by Landlord. The Letter of Credit shall: (a) be in form and substance acceptable to Landlord in its sole discretion; (b) name Landlord as its sole beneficiary; (c) expressly allow Landlord to draw upon it at any time, or from time to time, in whole or in part, by delivering to the issuer, at an office of the issuer located in New York, New York, Louisville, Kentucky or Chicago, Illinois, as set forth on the face of the Letter of Credit, written notice that Landlord is entitled to draw thereon pursuant to the terms of this Lease; (d) be issued by an FDIC-insured Lending Institution that is reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, but shall in all events have a credit rating of "AA" (or the equivalent) or higher from one of the Rating Agencies; and (e) be expressly unconditional, irrevocable and fully transferable. The Letter of Credit (and any renewals or replacements thereof) shall be for a term of not less than one (1) year. Tenant agrees that it shall from time to time, as necessary, (i) renew or replace the original and any subsequent Letter of Credit not less than thirty (30) days prior to its stated expiration date so that it will remain in full force and effect until the later of sixty (60) days after the last day of the Term or the date on which Tenant's obligations under this Lease are satisfied in full or (ii) deliver a cash Security Deposit in the Security Amount not less than thirty (30) days prior to the stated expiration date of such Letter of Credit. If Tenant fails to furnish such renewal or replacement at least 30 days prior to the stated expiration date of the Letter of Credit, Landlord, or its successor, may immediately draw upon such Letter of Credit and hold the proceeds thereof as a portion of the Security Deposit pursuant to the terms of this Lease. Any renewal of or replacement for the original or any subsequent Letter of Credit shall 25
be in an amount not less than the Security Amount and shall otherwise meet the requirements for the original Letter of Credit as set forth above. 3.4.3 Increase; Replacement of Security Deposit. Tenant, within five (5) Business Days after any increase in Fixed Rent hereunder, shall deposit with Landlord cash in, or increase the face amount of the Letter of Credit by, the amount necessary to ensure the Security Deposit hereunder continues to be equal to six (6) months' annual Fixed Rent based upon the increased Fixed Rent from time to time due hereunder (or two (2) times Fixed Rent in the event a Covenant Replacement Event has occurred). The Security Deposit (or any portion thereof) may be applied (or drawn upon from time to time in full or partial amounts in the case of the Letter of Credit and any renewals or replacements thereof) by Landlord for purposes of curing any Event of Default or Events of Default of Tenant hereunder (or as otherwise expressly provided in this Section 3.4), in which event Tenant shall replenish said Security Deposit in full, within ten (10) days after demand therefor, by paying to Landlord the amount so applied or drawn, or, in the case of the Letter of Credit, restoring the Letter of Credit to its full amount. Tenant's failure to timely restore the Security Deposit as aforesaid shall be an Event of Default. If: (a) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing hereunder, (b) either (i) Landlord has not applied (or drawn upon) the Security Deposit to cure an Event of Default or (ii) Landlord has applied (or drawn upon) the Security Deposit to cure an Event of Default and Tenant has replenished or restored the same, and (c) Tenant has fully performed and satisfied all of its obligations under the Lease (including, without limitation and as applicable, its obligations relative to an Operational Transfer), then the Security Deposit, or such applicable portion thereof, shall be paid or returned to Tenant within sixty (60) days after the expiration or termination of this Lease and the surrender of the Premises to Landlord in the condition required hereunder; provided, however, that Landlord may retain an amount, as it shall reasonably determine, to secure the payment of any Rent, the amount of which Landlord is then unable to determine finally (and Landlord shall return any such retained amount to Tenant promptly following the final determination of such Rent amount and the full payment to Landlord of such Rent). The Security Deposit shall not be deemed an advance payment of Rent or a measure of Landlord's damages for any default hereunder by Tenant, nor shall it be a bar or defense to any action that Landlord may at any time commence against Tenant. 3.5 Survival. Tenant's obligation to pay any Rent owing hereunder with respect to any period on or prior to the expiration or termination of this Lease (including, without limitation, any Extended Terms), as this Lease applies to any or all of the Premises, shall survive any such expiration or termination. 3.6 Net Lease. The Rent shall be paid absolutely net to Landlord, free of all Impositions, utility charges, operating expenses, insurance premiums or any other charge or expense in connection with the Premises, without any rights of deduction, set-off or abatement, so that this Lease shall yield to Landlord the full amount of the installments of Fixed Rent, throughout the Term (including, without limitation, any Extended Terms). This Lease is intended to be and shall be construed as an absolutely net lease pursuant to which Landlord shall not, under any circumstances or conditions, whether presently existing or hereafter arising, and whether foreseen or unforeseen by the parties, be required to make any payment or expenditure of any kind whatsoever or be under any other obligation or liability whatsoever, except as expressly set forth herein. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 3.6, Tenant shall retain 26
the right to bring lawsuits against Landlord with respect to alleged defaults by Landlord of its obligations hereunder or under other agreements to which Tenant and Landlord are parties. 3.7 Lease Guaranty. On the date hereof, Tenant shall cause to be delivered to Landlord the Lease Guaranty made by Guarantor guaranteeing all of Tenant's obligations under this Lease. 4. Impositions. 4.1 Payment of Impositions. Subject to Section 13 relating to permitted contests, Tenant shall pay all Impositions payable during the Term as set forth in Section 3.2.1 and for any tax period occurring during the Term, irrespective of whether the Impositions for such tax period are due and payable after the Term. Tenant's obligation to pay such Impositions shall be deemed absolutely fixed upon the date such Impositions become a lien upon the Leased Property or any part thereof. If any refund shall be due from any taxing authority in respect of any Imposition paid by Tenant during the Term, the same shall be paid over to or retained by Tenant but only if no Event of Default shall have occurred hereunder and be continuing. If an Event of Default shall exist hereunder, such refund shall be paid over to and retained by Landlord. If Tenant nevertheless receives such refund, Tenant shall, upon receipt, immediately pay such refund over to Landlord in full. Any such funds retained by Landlord due to an Event of Default shall be applied as Landlord shall determine in its sole discretion. In the event any Governmental Authority classifies any property covered by this Lease as personal property, Tenant shall file all personal property tax returns in such jurisdictions where it may legally so file. Subject to the terms of Section 13, Tenant may, upon notice to Landlord, at Tenant's option and at Tenant's sole cost and expense, protest, appeal, or institute tax contests to effect a reduction of real estate or personal property assessments and Landlord, at Tenant's expense as aforesaid, shall cooperate with Tenant in such protest, appeal, or other action to the extent required by law and reasonably requested by Tenant. 4.2 Notice of Impositions. Landlord or Landlord's designee shall use reasonable efforts to give prompt notice to Tenant of all Impositions payable by Tenant hereunder of which Landlord at any time has knowledge (which notice shall be deemed properly given if given pursuant to Section 33 hereof or by an e-mail notification to Tenant at cminer@thicare.com), and, if Tenant has not otherwise received notice or become aware of the applicable Impositions, Landlord's failure to give any such notice shall temporarily suspend Tenant's obligations hereunder to pay such Impositions only until such time as Tenant receives notice or otherwise becomes aware of such Impositions; provided, however, that if Landlord reasonably believes that Tenant is aware of such payable Impositions, then Landlord shall have no such obligation to notify Tenant thereof. In the event that Landlord fails to timely notify Tenant of any Impositions payable by Tenant of which Landlord has knowledge and of which Tenant has not otherwise received notice or become aware, then Landlord shall pay any fine or late fee resulting from the late payment of such Impositions, but only to the extent that such fine or late fee is due to delay in payment caused by such failure by Landlord to so advise Tenant. Tenant shall deliver to Landlord, not more than five (5) days prior to the due date of each Imposition, copies of the invoice for such Imposition, the check delivered for payment thereof and an original receipt evidencing such payment or other proof of payment satisfactory to Landlord. 27
4.3 Adjustment of Impositions. Any Imposition imposed in respect of the tax-fiscal period during which the Term terminates or expires shall be adjusted and prorated between Landlord and Tenant, whether or not such Imposition is imposed before or after such termination or expiration, and Tenant's obligation to pay its prorated share thereof shall survive such termination or expiration. 5. No Termination, Abatement, etc. Tenant, to the extent permitted by law, shall remain bound by this Lease in accordance with its terms and shall neither take any action without the consent of Landlord to modify, surrender or terminate the same, nor seek nor be entitled to any abatement, deduction, deferment or reduction of Rent, or set-off against the Rent, nor shall the respective obligations of Landlord and Tenant be otherwise affected by reason of (a) any damage to, or destruction of, any Leased Property or any portion thereof, from whatever cause, or any Condemnation of any Leased Property or any portion thereof (except as otherwise expressly and specifically provided in Section 15 or Section 16), (b) the interruption or discontinuation of any service or utility servicing any Leased Property, (c) the lawful or unlawful prohibition of, or restriction upon, Tenant's use of any Leased Property, or any portion thereof, the interference with such use by any person, corporation, partnership or other entity, or eviction by paramount title, (d) any claim that Tenant has or might have against Landlord or any default or breach of any warranty by Landlord under this Lease or any other agreement between Landlord and Tenant, or to which Landlord and Tenant are parties, (e) any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, composition, readjustment, liquidation, dissolution, winding up or other proceedings affecting Landlord or any assignee or transferee of Landlord, (f) revocation, suspension or non-renewal of any license, permit, approval or other Authorization necessary to operate any Facility, (g) any withholding, non-payment, reduction or other adverse change respecting any Facility Provider Agreement, Medicare, Medicaid or other Third Party Payor Program, (h) any admissions hold under Medicare, Medicaid or any Third Party Payor Program, or (i) for any other cause whether similar or dissimilar to any of the foregoing other than a discharge of Tenant from any such obligations as a matter of law. Tenant hereby specifically waives all rights, arising from any occurrence whatsoever, which may now or hereafter be conferred upon it by law to (i) modify, surrender or terminate this Lease or quit or surrender any Leased Property or any portion thereof, or (ii) entitle Tenant to any abatement, reduction, suspension or deferment of the Rent or other sums payable by Tenant hereunder. The obligations of Landlord and Tenant hereunder shall be separate and independent covenants and agreements and the Rent and all other sums payable by Tenant hereunder shall continue to be payable in all events unless and to the extent the obligations to pay the same shall be terminated by termination of this Lease as to any Leased Property other than by reason of an Event of Default. 6. Premises; Tenant's Personal Property. 6.1 Ownership of the Premises. Tenant acknowledges that the Premises are the property of Landlord and that Tenant has only the right to the possession and use of the Premises upon and subject to the terms and conditions of this Lease. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Lease, in the case of any easement or other rights that are appurtenant to any Leased Property, Tenant agrees that Landlord does not make any representation or warranty relative to Landlord's title thereto or whether such appurtenances are 28
encumbered. Tenant agrees that such appurtenances shall constitute Permitted Encumbrances, as to which Tenant shall have the obligations set forth in Section 8.2.7 and Section 23. 6.2 Tenant's Personal Property. Tenant may (and shall as provided herein below), at its sole expense, install, affix or assemble or place on any parcels of the Land or in any of the Leased Improvements, any items of Tenant's Personal Property and Tenant shall, subject to the terms of Section 21.1.1 and the conditions set forth below, and except for any Tenant's Personal Property that is purchased by Landlord pursuant to Section 36, remove the same upon the expiration or any prior termination of the Term as it relates to any Leased Property(ies) upon which the same are located. Tenant shall provide and maintain during the entire Term all such Tenant's Personal Property as shall be necessary to maintain the Authorizations in effect and to operate each Facility in compliance with all licensure and certification requirements, in compliance with all applicable and material Legal Requirements and Insurance Requirements and otherwise in accordance with customary practice in the industry for the Primary Intended Use of each Leased Property. All of Tenant's Personal Property not removed on or prior to the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease shall be considered abandoned by Tenant and may be appropriated, sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed of by Landlord without first giving notice thereof to Tenant and without any payment to Tenant and without any obligation to account therefor or otherwise dispose of the same in accordance with applicable law. Pursuant to the terms of Section 9.1.3, Tenant shall, at its expense, restore the Premises to the condition required by Section 9.1.3, including, without limitation, repair of all damage to the Premises caused by the removal of Tenant's Personal Property, whether effected by Tenant or Landlord. 7. Condition and Use of Each Leased Property. 7.1 Condition of Each Leased Property. Tenant acknowledges receipt and delivery of possession of each Leased Property and that Tenant has examined and otherwise has knowledge of the condition of each Leased Property prior to the execution and delivery of this Lease and has found each Leased Property to be in good order and repair and satisfactory for its purposes hereunder. Tenant is leasing each Leased Property "as is" "where is" and Tenant waives any claim or action against Landlord in respect of the condition of each Leased Property. LANDLORD MAKES NO WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, IN RESPECT OF ANY LEASED PROPERTY OR ANY PART THEREOF, EITHER AS TO ITS FITNESS, DESIGN OR CONDITION FOR ANY PARTICULAR USE OR PURPOSE AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE MATERIAL OR WORKMANSHIP THEREIN, LATENT OR PATENT, OR OTHERWISE, IT BEING AGREED THAT ALL SUCH RISKS ARE TO BE BORNE BY TENANT. TENANT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT EACH LEASED PROPERTY HAS BEEN INSPECTED BY TENANT AND IS SATISFACTORY TO IT. 7.2 Use of Each Leased Property. 7.2.1 Primary Intended Use. During the entire Term, Tenant shall use each Facility (including, without limitation, the Leased Improvements thereon) solely for its Primary Intended Use and shall operate each Facility in a manner consistent with a first class, high quality healthcare facility and sound reimbursement principles under Medicare, Medicaid and any applicable Third Party Payor Programs. Tenant shall not use any Leased Property or any portion thereof for any use other than the Primary Intended Use(s) of the Facility(ies) located 29
thereon without the prior written consent of Landlord, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. No use shall be made or permitted to be made of any Leased Property, and no acts shall be done, that would cause the cancellation of any insurance policy covering such Leased Property or any part thereof, nor shall Tenant sell or otherwise provide to occupants or patients therein, or permit to be kept, used or sold in or about such Leased Property, any article that may be prohibited by any Legal Requirements or by the standard form of fire insurance policies, or any other insurance policies required to be carried hereunder, or fire underwriters' regulations. The Authorizations for any Facility shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law, relate and apply exclusively to such Facility. 7.2.2 Authorizations Appurtenant. Tenant acknowledges and agrees that, subject to all applicable Legal Requirements, the Authorizations, are appurtenant to the Facilities to which they apply, both during and following the termination or expiration of the Term. In jurisdictions where the CONs or any other Authorizations are issued to a Tenant or its subtenant, as the Facility operator, Tenant agrees that, in connection with an Operational Transfer, it shall cooperate with Landlord, in accordance with Section 39.1 hereof, to turn over all of Tenant's rights in connection with such CONs or other Authorizations to Landlord or Successor Operator, as applicable. This Section 7.2.2 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. 7.3 Security Agreement. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Tenant hereby grants to Landlord a first and best security interest in, and lien upon, subordinate to no other lien, all Authorizations issued to, leased or licensed to, or held by, Tenant, including, but not limited to, Tenant's interest in and rights under all Facility Provider Agreements, with respect to the Facilities and any CONs issued, leased or licensed to any Tenant (collectively, "Authorization Collateral") to secure the performance of all of Tenant's obligations under this Lease, including, but not limited to, its obligation to engage in, assist with and facilitate any Operational Transfer. Tenant represents and warrants to Landlord that attached hereto on Schedule 7.3 is a detailed list and description of all of the Authorization Collateral. In connection with an Event of Default or an Operational Transfer, Landlord shall have, as to each Leased Property, all the rights and remedies of a secured party under the laws of the State in which such Leased Property is located with respect to the Authorization Collateral for the Facility(ies) located on such Leased Property. Tenant, as debtor, shall (i) execute (if appropriate or necessary) and deliver to Landlord, as the secured party, upon execution of this Lease by Tenant, UCC-1 financing statements in proper form, and thereafter, from time to time, execute and deliver to Landlord such extensions and/or updates of such financing statements as are required for the purpose of perfecting and maintaining the priority of the security interest and lien granted to Landlord herein, (ii) execute such additional security agreements, fixture filings and other documents as Landlord may reasonably require, and (iii) perform any other acts reasonably necessary to the perfection of such security interest and lien. Tenant consents to the filing of such financing statements by Landlord and agrees that the provisions of this Section 7.3 shall constitute a security agreement for the purposes contemplated hereby. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Tenant shall not (under any circumstances) grant any lien upon, security interest in and to or otherwise pledge, encumber, hypothecate, transfer or assign, in whole or in part, the Authorization Collateral to any Person, irrespective of the priority of such security interest, pledge or hypothecation. The security interest and lien granted by this 30
Section 7.3 shall be in addition to any lien of Landlord that may now or at any time hereafter be provided by law. 7.4 Granting of Easements, etc. Landlord may, from time to time, with respect to any Leased Property: (i) grant easements, covenants and restrictions, and other rights in the nature of easements, covenants and restrictions, (ii) release existing easements, covenants and restrictions or other rights in the nature of easements, covenants or restrictions that are for the benefit of the applicable Leased Property, (iii) dedicate or transfer unimproved portions of the applicable Leased Property for road, highway or other public purposes, (iv) execute petitions to have the applicable Leased Property annexed to any municipal corporation or utility district, (v) execute amendments to any easements, covenants and restrictions affecting the applicable Leased Property and (vi) execute and deliver to any person any instrument appropriate to confirm or effect such grants, releases, dedications and transfers (to the extent of its interests in the applicable Leased Property) without the necessity of obtaining Tenant's consent provided that such easement or other instrument is not materially detrimental to the conduct of the business of Tenant on the applicable Leased Property. If any easement, covenant, release or comparable instrument contemplated by this Section 7.4 is materially detrimental to the conduct of business by the applicable Tenant(s) at a Leased Property, Landlord shall obtain Tenant's prior written consent to the proposed easement, covenant or restriction or comparable instrument, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld (and which consent shall be deemed given if not expressly denied by Tenant, in writing, within ten (10) Business Days of Tenant's receipt of such request). 8. Negative and Affirmative Covenants of Tenant. 8.1 Negative Covenants. Tenant covenants and agrees with Landlord that: 8.1.1 Due on Sale and Encumbrance; Transfers of Interests. Without the prior written consent of Landlord, neither any Tenant nor any Person having a direct or indirect interest, ownership or beneficial interest in any Tenant or any Guarantor shall sell, convey, mortgage, grant, bargain, encumber, pledge, assign or otherwise transfer any interest, direct or indirect, in any Tenant, any Guarantor (except as may otherwise be expressly and specifically permitted in the Lease Guaranty with respect to Trans and certain Service Guarantors), any of the Leased Properties or any part thereof, whether voluntarily or involuntarily. 8.1.2 Liens; Waste. No Tenant shall create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any lien, charge, encumbrance, easement or restriction on any portion of any of the Leased Properties except for Permitted Encumbrances. No Tenant shall commit or suffer to be committed any waste on any Leased Property, nor shall any Tenant cause or permit any material nuisance thereon. 8.1.3 Issuance of Equity Interests. No Tenant shall issue or allow to be created any stocks or shares or partnership or membership interests in any Tenant, or other ownership interests other than the stocks, shares, partnership or membership interests and other ownership interests that are outstanding or exist on the date hereof or any security or other instrument that by its terms is convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for stock, shares, 31
partnership or membership interests or other ownership interests in any Tenant that are outstanding or exist on the date hereof. 8.1.4 Change in Business. No Tenant (exclusive of Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc.) shall cease to be a single-purpose entity existing for the sole purpose of operating the applicable Leased Property(ies) for its/their Primary Intended Use(s), or make any material change in the scope or nature of its business objectives, purposes or operations, or undertake or participate in activities other than in continuance of its present business. No Tenant shall amend, modify or alter its Tenant Org Docs in any material respect without Landlord's prior written consent, which consent may be given or withheld in Landlord's sole discretion. 8.1.5 Primary Intended Use. No Tenant shall (i) change, consent to, or otherwise acquiesce in, the change of the Primary Intended Use of any Facility; or (ii) reduce, or consent to, or otherwise acquiesce in, the reduction of the number of licensed beds at any Facility without Landlord's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. 8.1.6 Debt Cancellation. No Tenant shall cancel or otherwise forgive or release any claim or debt owed to any Tenant by any Person, except for adequate consideration and in the ordinary course of such Tenant's business. 8.1.7 Affiliate Transactions. No Tenant shall enter into, or be a party to, any transaction with an Affiliate of any Tenant or any of the partners, members or shareholders of any Tenant except in the ordinary course of business and on terms that are fully disclosed to Landlord in advance and are no less favorable to any Tenant or such Affiliate than would be obtained in a comparable arm's-length transaction with an unrelated third party. 8.1.8 Zoning. No Tenant shall initiate or consent to any zoning reclassification of any portion of any of the Leased Properties or seek any variance under any existing zoning ordinance or use (or permit the use of) any portion of any of the Leased Properties in any manner that could result in such use becoming a non-conforming use under any zoning ordinance or any other applicable land use law, rule or regulation, without the prior consent of Landlord. 8.1.9 Assets; Investing. No Tenant (exclusive of Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. in accordance with the Lease Guaranty only) shall purchase or own any property other than property necessary for, or incidental to, the operation of the applicable Facility(ies) for its/their Primary Intended Use(s). No Tenant (exclusive of Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. to the extent expressly and specifically permitted under the Loan Documents and the Lease Guaranty) shall purchase or otherwise acquire, hold, or invest in securities (whether capital stock or instruments evidencing indebtedness) of any Person. No Tenant (exclusive of Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. to the extent expressly and specifically permitted under the Loan Documents and the Lease Guaranty) shall make loans or advances to, any Person (other than any Guarantor provided no Event of Default then exists), except for cash balances temporarily invested in short-term or money market securities. 32
8.1.10 Contracts. No Tenant shall execute or modify any material contracts or agreements with respect to any Facility except for contracts and modifications approved by Landlord (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld). Contracts made in the ordinary course of business and in an amount less than $100,000.00 shall not be considered "material" for purposes of this Section. 8.1.11 Subordination of Payments to Affiliates. After the occurrence of an Event of Default and until such Event of Default is cured, no Tenant shall make any payments or distributions (including, without limitation, salary, bonuses, fees, principal, interest, dividends, liquidating distributions, management fees, cash flow distributions or lease payments) to any Guarantor or any Affiliate of any Tenant or any Guarantor, or any shareholder, member, partner or other equity interest holder of Tenant, any Guarantor or any Affiliate of any Tenant or Guarantor. 8.1.12 No Joint Assessment. No Tenant shall suffer, permit or initiate the joint assessment of any Leased Property (i) with any other real property constituting a tax lot separate from such Leased Property, or (ii) with any portion of such Leased Property that may be deemed to constitute personal property, or any other procedure whereby the lien of any taxes that may be levied against such personal property shall be assessed or levied or charged to such Leased Property. 8.1.13 Principal Place of Business. No Tenant shall change its principal place of business without first giving Landlord thirty (30) days prior notice. No Tenant shall change its jurisdiction of organization or its name without first obtaining the written consent of Landlord. 8.1.14 ERISA. 8.1.14.1 No Tenant shall engage in any transaction that would cause any obligation, or action taken or to be taken, hereunder (or the exercise by Landlord of any of its rights under this Lease) to be a non-exempt (under a statutory or administrative class exemption) prohibited transaction under ERISA. 8.1.14.2 Each Tenant shall deliver to Landlord such certifications or other evidence from time to time throughout the Term, as requested by Landlord in its sole discretion, that (A) such Tenant is not and does not maintain an "employee benefit plan" as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, that is subject to Title I of ERISA, or a "governmental plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA; (B) such Tenant is not subject to state statutes regulating investments and fiduciary obligations with respect to governmental plans; and (C) one or more of the following circumstances is true: (i) equity interests in such Tenant are publicly offered securities, within the meaning of 29 C.F.R. (S) 2510.3-101(b)(2); (ii) less than twenty-five percent (25%) of each outstanding class of equity interests in such Tenant are held by "benefit plan investors" within the meaning of 29 C.F.R. (S) 2510.3-101(f)(2); or 33
(iii) such Tenant qualifies as an "operating company" or a "real estate operating company" within the meaning of 29 C.F.R. (S) 2510.3-101(c) or (e). 8.1.15 Other Indebtedness. No Tenant shall create, incur, assume, or permit to exist any indebtedness other than (i) trade debt incurred in the ordinary course of Tenant's business (which shall not include so-called "accounts receivable" financing, which shall be governed by the terms of Section 21.2); or (ii) any AR Financing pursuant to Section 21.2. 8.1.16 Guaranties. Except in connection with the Loan Transaction, no Tenant shall create, incur, assume, or permit to exist any guarantee of any loan or other indebtedness except for the endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business. 8.1.17 Use-Specific Negative Covenants. No Tenant shall: 8.1.17.1 Transfer any Authorizations to any location other than the Facility operated by such Tenant or as otherwise required by the terms of this Lease nor pledge any Authorizations as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness except as required by the terms of this Lease. 8.1.17.2 Rescind, withdraw, revoke, amend, modify, supplement, or otherwise alter the nature, tenor or scope of (i) any Authorization for any Facility or (ii) any applicable Facility Provider Agreement for any Facility. 8.1.17.3 Amend or otherwise change any Facility's authorized bed capacity and/or the number or type of beds, and/or licensing category or type and/or the number of beds participating in governmental payment programs approved by the applicable state licensing agency, CMS or other Governmental Authority without (x) Landlord's prior written consent, which may be given or denied in Landlord's sole discretion and, (y) in connection with any temporary reduction of the number of beds, written evidence from each applicable Governmental Authority that such reduction is temporary. 8.1.17.4 Replace or transfer all or any part of any Facility's licensed beds to another site or location, change the type of licensed beds at any Facility or reduce the number of licensed beds at any Facility. 8.1.17.5 Apply for approval to (i) move any licensed beds to another site or location, (ii) change the type of licensed beds at any Facility or (iii) reduce the number of licensed beds at any Facility. 8.1.17.6 Jeopardize in any manner any Tenant's participation in Medicare, Medicaid or any Third Party Payor Programs to which any Tenant is subject at any time during the Term. 8.1.17.7 Pledge any receivables as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness other than as specifically permitted by the terms of Section 7.3 of this Lease. 34
8.1.17.8 Enter into any patient or resident care agreements with patients or residents or with any other Persons that deviate in any material respect from the standard form customarily used by any Tenant at the applicable Facility. 8.1.17.9 Change the terms of any Facility Provider Agreement, any Third Party Payor Program or its normal billing payment or reimbursement policies and procedures with respect thereto (including, without limitation, the amount and timing of finance charges, fees and write-offs); provided that a Tenant may enter into changes that do not have a material adverse effect on (x) the business or financial position or results of operations of such Tenant, (y) the ability of such Tenant to perform, or of Landlord to enforce, the terms of this Lease or the value of the Leased Properties taken as a whole. 8.1.17.10 Assign or transfer any of its interest in any Authorization or assign, pledge, hypothecate, transfer or remove, or permit any other person to assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate or remove, any records pertaining to any Facility including, without limitation, patient records and medical and clinical records (except for removal of such patient records as directed by the patients owning such records). 8.2 Affirmative Covenants. Until all of Tenant's obligations hereunder have been performed and discharged in full, Tenant covenants and agrees to and for the benefit of Landlord as follows: 8.2.1 Perform Obligations. Tenant shall perform or cause to be performed, as and when due, all of its obligations under this Lease, the Authorizations (including, but not limited to, any Facility Provider Agreements), any Permitted Encumbrances, any Insurance Requirements and any material Legal Requirements. Prior to the date hereof, Tenant has taken all necessary action to obtain all Authorizations (including, but not limited to, the Facility Provider Agreements) required for the operation of each of the Facilities for its Primary Intended Use and shall take all necessary action to maintain such Authorizations (including, but not limited to, the Facility Provider Agreements) during the Term. 8.2.2 Proceedings to Enjoin or Prevent Construction. If any proceedings are filed seeking to enjoin or otherwise prevent or declare invalid or unlawful Tenant's construction, occupancy, maintenance, or operation of any Facility or any portion thereof for its Primary Intended Use, Tenant will cause such proceedings to be vigorously contested in good faith, and will, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, use all reasonable commercial efforts to bring about a favorable and speedy disposition of all such proceedings and any other proceedings. 8.2.3 Documents and Information. 8.2.3.1 Furnish Documents. Tenant shall timely deliver to Landlord such financial statements, reports, certificates and other information as is required pursuant to the terms of Section 25 hereof, including, but not limited to, the Census Information and Operator Reports, within the applicable time periods specified in Section 25. 8.2.3.2 Furnish Information. Tenant shall (i) promptly supply Landlord with such information concerning its financial condition, licensing, affairs and 35
property as Landlord may reasonably request from time to time hereafter and in the format reasonably designated by Landlord; (ii) promptly notify Landlord in writing of any condition or event that constitutes a breach of any term, condition, warranty, representation, or provision of this Lease or any other agreement between Landlord or its Affiliates and Tenant, Guarantor or any of their Affiliates, and of any adverse change in the financial condition of any Tenant, Guarantor or any Affiliate of Tenant or Guarantor and of any Event of Default; (iii) maintain a standard and modern system of accounting; (iv) permit Landlord or any of Landlord's Representatives to have reasonable access to and to examine all of its books and records regarding the financial condition of any or all of the Facilities at any time or times hereafter during business hours and after two (2) Business Days' prior oral or written notice; and (v) permit Landlord, at Landlord's expense, to copy and make abstracts from any and all of said books and records. Tenant shall notify Landlord, in writing and within five (5) Business Days, if any Tenant is advised, in writing, formally or informally, by its insurance carrier, reinsurance provider, accountants, actuary, any Governmental Authority, or any Third Party Payor Program provider of any actual, pending, threatened or contemplated increase in its reserves for expenses relating to malpractice or professional liability claims or any material increase in the premium costs for malpractice or professional liability insurance (any of the foregoing, a "Reserve Event"). 8.2.3.3 Further Assurances and Information. Tenant shall, upon request of Landlord from time to time, execute, deliver, and furnish such documents as may be necessary or appropriate to consummate fully the transactions contemplated under this Lease. Promptly, and in any event, within ten (10) days after a request from Landlord, Tenant shall provide to Landlord such additional information regarding Tenant, Tenant's financial condition or the Facilities as Landlord, or any existing or proposed creditor of Landlord or Ventas, Inc. (including, without limitation, any existing or proposed Facility Mortgagee), or any auditor or underwriter of Landlord or Ventas, Inc., may require from time to time. 8.2.3.4 Material Communications. Tenant shall transmit to Landlord, within two (2) Business Days after receipt thereof (or immediately with respect to any correspondence related to an "immediate jeopardy" event), any Actuarial Correspondence and material communication affecting one or more Facilities, Tenant, Guarantor, any Affiliate of Tenant or Guarantor, this Lease, the Legal Requirements, the Insurance Requirements, the Facility Provider Agreements or the Authorizations, and Tenant shall promptly respond to inquiries by Landlord with respect to such information. Tenant shall notify Landlord in writing promptly after Tenant obtains knowledge of any potential, threatened or existing litigation or proceeding against, or investigation of, any Tenant, any Guarantor, any affiliate of any Tenant or any Guarantor or any Facility that may affect the right to operate one or more of the Facilities, any Facility Provider Agreements, any of the Authorizations, the right to receive regular reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid or any other Third Party Payor Program or Landlord's title to any Facility or Tenant's interest therein. 8.2.3.5 Operator Reporting; Actuarial Reports. Tenant shall provide Landlord with accurate and complete copies of any and all of the census information concerning the number of licensed beds occupied by bona fide residents or patients, all cost reports, surveys, survey deficiency reports, monthly financial statements and other reports, materials and information concerning Tenant, the Facilities and each Tenant's business 36
operations and compliance with material laws, ordinances, rules, regulations, Authorizations and Facility Provider Agreements that are submitted by Tenant to any Governmental Authorities or any provider pursuant to any Third Party Payor Program (including any Health Department or CMS), for any of the Facilities (the "Operator Reports") promptly, and in any event, within three (3) Business Days, after the submission thereof. Tenant shall provide Landlord with any and all Actuarial Reports received by, or prepared by or on behalf of, Landlord within ten (10) Business Days after the receipt or submission thereof by or to any Tenant. All Operator Reports shall be accurate in all material respects as of the date of such Operator Reports. 8.2.4 Compliance With Laws. Tenant shall comply with all Insurance Requirements and all material Legal Requirements, and keep all Authorizations and Facility Provider Agreements in full force and effect. Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.3, Tenant shall pay when due all Impositions of every kind and nature that due and payable by Tenant at any time during the Term. Tenant shall be solely responsible for compliance with all material Legal Requirements and Landlord shall have no responsibility for such compliance. 8.2.5 Existence and Change in Ownership. Each Tenant shall maintain its respective existence throughout the Term. Any change in the ownership of Tenant, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, shall require Landlord's prior written consent. Landlord's consent to a change in ownership may be given or withheld in Landlord's sole discretion. 8.2.6 Financial Covenants. The following financial covenants shall be met throughout the term of this Lease: 8.2.6.1 Coverage Ratio. Tenant shall maintain for each fiscal quarter a Coverage Ratio with respect to each Facility of not less than 1.00 to 1.00. 8.2.6.2 Net Worth. Each Tenant shall maintain for each fiscal quarter a Net Worth of not less than the net worth on the day of "closing" minus $500,000. Tenant shall maintain during each fiscal quarter an aggregate Net Worth of not less than net worth at the date of closing less $2,000,000. 8.2.6.3 Portfolio Coverage Ratio. Tenant shall maintain for each fiscal quarter a Portfolio Coverage Ratio of not less than 1.25 to 1.00. 8.2.6.4 Minimum Occupancy. Each Tenant shall maintain a minimum occupancy rate in the applicable Facility of seventy-five percent (75%) by patients for which full reimbursement is provided in accordance with the terms of the applicable Facility Provider Agreements. Tenant shall maintain an aggregate minimum occupancy rate in all of the Facilities for each quarter of eighty percent (80%) by patients for which full reimbursement is provided in accordance with the terms of the applicable Facility Provider Agreements. 8.2.7 Permitted Encumbrances. Tenant shall, at its own cost and expense, fully observe, perform and comply with all Permitted Encumbrances as the same apply to or bind Landlord or the Premises. No Tenant shall cause, or permit its respective Tenant Parties to cause, whether by act or omission, any breach of, default under or termination of any Permitted Encumbrance applicable to or binding upon Landlord or the Premises. 37
8.3 Authorization Non-Compliance. In the event that Tenant shall receive a complaint or notice from a private party to any Third Party Payor Program or Governmental Authority alleging, asserting or suggesting that Tenant is not in substantial compliance with any Legal Requirement, license, permit, approval, CON, certification for reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid (including any Facility Provider Agreement) or other Authorization, Tenant shall within two (2) Business Days, send notice to Landlord, whereupon Tenant shall remedy any condition causing such complaint noncompliance, as applicable, promptly, and in any case within any cure period allowed therefor by the applicable agency or authority, in the case of such non-compliance. 9. Maintenance of Facilities. 9.1 Maintenance and Repair. 9.1.1 Facility Repair. Tenant, at its sole expense, shall keep each Leased Property (and Tenant's Personal Property) in good and safe order and repair, except for ordinary wear and tear and damage by Casualty and Condemnation (whether or not the need for such repairs occurs as a result of Tenant's use, any prior use, the elements or the age of such Leased Property, Tenant's Personal Property, or any portion thereof). Without limitation of the foregoing, Tenant shall promptly make all necessary and appropriate repairs and replacements (capital and otherwise) to each Facility, of every kind and nature, whether interior or exterior, structural or non-structural, ordinary or extraordinary, foreseen or unforeseen or arising by reason of a condition existing prior to the commencement of the Term (concealed or otherwise), including, but not limited to, any roof repairs or replacements or parking lot repairs or replacements, such that the Leased Properties are maintained in a first class operating and structural condition. Tenant shall maintain, repair and replace each Facility such that no material deferred maintenance items exist at, in or on any Leased Property at any time and all systems, components, and elements (structural and otherwise) have a useful life determined in the exercise of Landlord's reasonable judgment that exceeds the then applicable Expiration Date by not less than three (3) years (and not less than seven (7) years as to structural items). Tenant shall have in place service and maintenance contracts with duly licensed contractors or repair services (which contractors or repair services shall be acceptable to Landlord in its sole discretion) providing for regular maintenance and repair of any and all major systems serving any Leased Property, including, but not limited to, the HVAC systems, life safety systems, plumbing systems and elevator and conveyor systems. Landlord may from time to time as to any one or more Leased Properties, and at Tenant's sole expense (but no more than once every two (2) years at Tenant's expense), cause an engineer designated by Landlord in its sole discretion, to inspect one or more Leased Properties and issue a report (a "Leased Property Condition Report") with respect to the condition of any such Leased Properties. Tenant shall, at its own cost and expense, make any and all repairs or replacements recommended by such Leased Property Condition Report that are required to be performed by this Section 9.1. All repairs shall be made in a good and workmanlike manner and in accordance with all Legal Requirements relating to such work. Tenant will not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission of which might materially impair the value or usefulness of the applicable Leased Property or any part thereof for its Primary Intended Use. Landlord shall not under any circumstances be required to repair, replace, build or rebuild any improvements on any Leased Property, or to make any repairs, replacements, alterations, restorations or renewals of any nature or description to any Leased 38
Property, whether ordinary or extraordinary, structural or non-structural, foreseen or unforeseen, or to make any expenditure whatsoever with respect thereto, in connection with this Lease, or to maintain any Leased Property in any way. Tenant hereby waives, to the extent permitted by law, the right to make repairs at the expense of Landlord pursuant to any law in effect at the time of the execution of this Lease or thereafter enacted. 9.1.2 Notice of Non-Responsibility. Except as expressly set forth in this Lease, nothing contained in this Lease and no action or inaction by Landlord shall be construed as: (i) constituting the consent or request of Landlord, express or implied, to any contractor, subcontractor, laborer, materialman or vendor to, or for the performance of, any labor or services or the furnishing of any materials or other property for the construction, alteration, addition, repair or demolition of or to any Leased Property or any part thereof; or (ii) giving Tenant any right, power or permission to contract for or permit the performance of any labor or services or the furnishing of any materials or other property in such fashion as would permit the making of any claim against Landlord in respect thereof or to make any agreement that might create, or in any way be the basis for, any right, title, interest, lien, claim or other encumbrance upon the estate of Landlord in any Leased Property, or any portion thereof. Landlord may post, at Tenant's sole cost, such notices of non-responsibility upon, or of record against, any Leased Property to prevent the lien of any contractor, subcontractor, laborer, materialmen or vendor providing work, services or supplies to Tenant from attaching against the Premises. Tenant agrees to promptly execute and record any such notice of non-responsibility at Tenant's sole cost. 9.1.3 Vacation and Surrender. Tenant shall, upon the expiration or sooner termination of the Term as to any Leased Property, vacate and surrender the applicable Leased Property to Landlord in a first class condition consistent with the requirements of Section 9.1.1, except as repaired, rebuilt, restored, altered or added to as permitted or required by the provisions of this Lease and except for ordinary wear and tear and damage from Casualty or Condemnation. Any Leased Property shall be returned to Landlord in a broom clean condition, free and clear of Tenant's Personal Property (subject to the terms of Section 21.1.1 and except for Tenant's Personal Property that Landlord elects to acquire pursuant to Section 36 hereof) but including any and all Alterations, which shall be and remain the property of Landlord as part of such Leased Property (except for Alterations that Landlord requests, in writing, that Tenant remove, which Alterations shall be promptly and completely removed by Tenant). Tenant shall repair, at Tenant's sole cost, any damage to a Leased Property resulting from the removal of any Alterations or Tenant's Personal Property therefrom, whether effected by Tenant or Landlord. 9.2 Encroachments. If any of the Leased Improvements on any Leased Property shall, at any time, encroach upon any property, street or right-of-way adjacent to such Leased Property, then, promptly upon the request of Landlord, Tenant shall, at its expense, subject to its right to contest the existence of any encroachment and, in such case, in the event of any adverse final determination, either (i) obtain valid waivers or settlements of all claims, liabilities and damages resulting from each such encroachment, whether the same shall affect Landlord or Tenant, or (ii) make such changes in the Leased Improvements, and take such other actions, as Tenant, in good faith exercise of its judgment deems reasonably practicable, to remove such encroachment, including, if necessary, the alteration of any of the Leased Improvements, and in any event take all such actions as may be necessary in order to be able to 39
continue the operation of the Leased Improvements for the Primary Intended Use substantially in the manner and to the extent the Leased Improvements were operated prior to the assertion of such encroachment. Any such alteration shall be made in conformity with the applicable requirements of Section 11. Tenant's obligations under this Section 9.2 shall be in addition to and shall in no way discharge or diminish any obligation of any insurer under any policy of title or other insurance and Tenant shall not be entitled to a credit for any sums recovered by Landlord under any such policy of title or other insurance. 10. Tenant's Representations and Warranties. Tenant hereby makes the following representations and warranties, as of the date hereof, to Landlord and acknowledges that Landlord is granting the Lease in reliance upon such representations and warranties. Tenant's representations and warranties shall survive and, except to the extent otherwise specifically limited, shall continue in full force and effect until Tenant's obligations hereunder have been performed in full. 10.1 Organization and Good Standing. Each Tenant other than Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. is a limited liability company, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware or Maryland. Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. is a Delaware corporation, duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware. Each Tenant is qualified to do business in and is in good standing under the laws of the State in which the Facility operated by such Tenant is located. Each Tenant other than Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. is a single member limited liability company, the sole members of which are identified on Schedule 1 attached hereto. Tenant has delivered true and complete copies of the documents, certificates and agreements pursuant to which each Tenant is organized to do business (the "Tenant Org Docs"). 10.2 Power and Authority. Each Tenant has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Lease and to make itself jointly and severally liable for the obligations of each of other Tenant. Each Tenant has taken all requisite action necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of such Tenant's obligations under this Lease. 10.3 Enforceability. This Lease constitutes a legal, valid, and binding obligation of each Tenant enforceable in accordance with its terms. 10.4 Consents. The execution, delivery and performance of this Lease will not require any consent, approval, authorization, order, or declaration of, or any filing or registration with, any court, any Governmental Authority, or any other person or entity. 10.5 No Violation. The execution, delivery and performance of this Lease (i) do not and will not conflict with, and do not and will not result in a breach of, any Tenant Org Docs; and (ii) do not and will not violate any order, writ, injunction, decree, statute, rule or regulation applicable to any Tenant or any of the Facilities. 10.6 Reports and Statements. All reports, statements (financial or otherwise), certificates and other data furnished by or on behalf of Tenant or any Guarantor to Landlord in connection with this Lease, and all representations and warranties made herein or in any certificate or other instrument delivered in connection herewith, are true and correct in all 40
material respects and do not omit to state any material fact or circumstance necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading as of the date of such report, statement, certificate or other data. 10.7 No Default. As of the date hereof, (i) there is no existing Event of Default under this Lease; and (ii) no event has occurred which, with the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would constitute or result in such an Event of Default. 10.8 Adverse Matters. No Tenant nor any of their respective representatives, officers, directors, members, contractors, subcontractors, agents or employees have been disqualified from participating in either the Medicare or Medicaid programs. Without limitation of the foregoing, no Tenant nor any of their respective officers, directors, members or managing employees or other contractors, subcontractors, employees or agents has engaged in any activities that are prohibited under criminal law, or are cause for civil penalties or mandatory or permissive exclusion from Medicare, or any other state health care program. There is no, and there shall continue to be no, threatened, existing or pending revocation, suspension, termination, probation, restriction, limitation or nonrenewal affecting any Tenant or any Facility with regard to participation in Medicare, Medicaid or any Third Party Payor Programs or the applicable Authorizations to which any Tenant or Facility presently or at any time hereafter is/are subject. 10.9 Certification. Each Tenant has obtained, or will obtain pursuant to the terms of the P&S Agreement, within thirty (30) days and one hundred twenty (120) days with respect to the Facility Provider Agreement for Medicare, any and all Authorizations necessary or advisable to operate its Facility for its Primary Intended Use. Each Tenant has obtained, or will obtain pursuant to the terms of the P&S Agreement within thirty (30) days and one hundred twenty (120) days with respect to the Facility Provider Agreement for Medicare, all of the Authorizations, including, but not limited to, the Facility Provider Agreements, necessary to be, and to continue to be, validly licensed and Medicare and Medicaid certified to operate its applicable Facility in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the State in which the applicable Facility is located and federal Governmental Authorities, including, but not limited to, CMS. 10.10 Transition Permits. As to those Authorizations necessary or advisable for the operation of each Facility for its Primary Intended Use that the Tenant operating such Facility has not received as of the date hereof (contemplated and characterized by the P&S Agreement as Transition Permits), such Tenant has obtained from the prior owner or operator of the applicable Facility the right to rely upon, use and employ such consents, approvals, licenses, permits or permissions from any Governmental Authorities and any providers under any Third Party Payor Programs (the "Transition Authorizations") as are necessary or advisable to allow such Tenant to operate the applicable Facility(ies) until replacement Authorizations are obtained and to receive regular reimbursement under Medicaid, Medicare, and any other Third Party Payor Programs until such Tenant receives the Authorizations necessary to replace such Transition Authorizations. 10.11 Facility Provider Agreements. Each Tenant is (or will be, pursuant to the terms of the P&S Agreement within thirty (30) days after the date hereof), and shall continue 41
to be, certified, by and the holder of, valid Facility Provider Agreements with Medicare and Medicaid, issued by the applicable Health Departments and/or CMS. 10.12 No Reimbursement Audits or Appeals. There are no current, pending or outstanding reimbursement audits regarding Medicaid, Medicare or Third Party Payor Programs nor any appeals pending at any Facility that (x) are not applicable in the ordinary course to skilled nursing facilities, hospitals or assisted living facilities, as applicable, comparable to the Facilities and (y) could result in a material adverse effect on the results from operations for the applicable Facility. 10.13 No Recoupments Efforts. There are no current or pending recoupment efforts regarding Medicaid, Medicare or Third Party Payor Programs at (or with respect to) any Facility that (x) are not applicable in the ordinary course to skilled nursing facilities, hospitals or assisted living facilities, as applicable, comparable to the Facilities and (y) could result in a material adverse effect on the results of operations of the applicable Facility. Tenant is not a participant in any federal program whereby any Governmental Authority may have the right to recover funds by reason of the advance of federal funds. 10.14 Professional Liability Reserves. For each Facility, the applicable Tenant has made reserves for expenses relating to malpractice and professional liability claims that are adequate and complete in the exercise of commercially reasonable judgment and normal commercial practice, which reserves have been approved by its independent auditors and its independent actuary. 10.15 Primary Intended Use. Each Facility is being operated for its Primary Intended Use and contains the number of licensed beds described on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof. 10.16 Compliance with Laws. Each Tenant is in substantial compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations and guidelines (including any government payment program requirements and disclosure of ownership and related information requirements), quality and safety standards, accepted professional standards and principles that apply to professionals providing services to nursing facilities, assisted living facilities and/or rehabilitation hospitals, in each case, as applicable, accreditation standards, and requirements of the applicable state licensing agency, CMS and all other Governmental Authorities including, without limitation, those requirements relating to the physical structure and environment of each Leased Property, licensing, quality and adequacy of medical care, distribution of pharmaceuticals, rate setting, equipment, personnel, operating policies, additions to facilities and services and fee splitting. No Tenant has committed any act which may give any Governmental Authority the right to cause Tenant to lose any applicable Authorizations. 10.17 Ownership of Authorizations. The Authorizations, including without limitation, each CON: (i) are not and have not been, transferred to any location other than the Leased Property to which such Authorizations relate; 42
(ii) are not and have not been, pledged as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness other than pursuant to the terms of this Lease; and (iii) are held free from restrictions or known conflicts that would materially impair the use or operation of each Facility for its Primary Intended Use, and are not provisional, probationary or restricted in any way. 10.18 Third Party Payor Programs. There is no threatened or pending revocation, suspension, termination, probation, restriction, limitation, fine, civil monetary penalty, recoupment or non-renewal affecting any Tenant or any Leased Property in respect of any Third Party Payor Programs to which Tenant or any Facility presently is subject. All Medicaid, Medicare, and private insurance cost reports and financial reports submitted by any Tenant have been and will be materially accurate and complete and have not been and will not be misleading in any material respects. No cost reports or financial reports for any Leased Property remain "open" or unsettled. 11. Alterations. 11.1 Alterations. Without the prior written consent of Landlord, which consent may be given or withheld in Landlord's sole discretion, Tenant shall not (x) make any Capital Alterations on or to any Leased Property, (y) enlarge or reduce the size of any Facility and/or (z) make any Capital Alterations or other Alterations that would tie in or connect with any improvements on property adjacent to the Land. Tenant may, without Landlord's prior written consent, make any alterations, additions, or improvements (collectively, with the alterations described in items (x) - (z) of the preceding sentence, "Alterations") to any Leased Property if such Alterations are not of the type described in either clause (x), (y) or (z) above, so long as in each case: (i) the same do not (A) decrease the value of the Leased Property, (B) affect the exterior appearance of the Leased Property, or (C) affect the structural components of the Leased Property or the main electrical, mechanical, plumbing or ventilating and air conditioning systems for any Facility, (ii) the same are consistent in terms of style, quality and workmanship to the original Leased Property and Fixtures, (iii) the same are constructed and performed in accordance with the provisions of Section 11.2 below and (iv) the cost thereof does not exceed, in the aggregate, $200,000.00 for any consecutive twelve (12) month period with respect to any single Facility. Except for those limited Alterations that expressly do not require Landlord's consent pursuant to the preceding sentence, all Alterations shall be subject to Landlord's prior written consent, which Landlord may give or withhold in its sole discretion. To the extent Landlord's prior written consent shall be required in connection with any Alterations, Landlord may impose such conditions thereon in connection with its approval thereof as Landlord deems appropriate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Landlord agrees that painting, landscaping, and replacement of floor, wall and window coverings shall be deemed Alterations that do not require Landlord's consent, regardless of the cost thereof, so long as the same meet the requirements of clauses (ii) and (iii) above. 11.2 Construction Requirements for all Alterations. Whether or not Landlord's review and approval is required, for all Alterations of any Leased Property, the following shall apply and shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other requirements that Landlord may impose on Tenant in connection with the making of any Alterations: 43
11.2.1 Plans and Specifications. Prior to commencing any Alterations, Tenant shall have submitted to Landlord a written proposal setting forth in reasonable detail such Alteration and shall provide to Landlord for approval, such plans and specifications, permits, licenses, construction budgets and other information (collectively, the "Plans and Specifications") as Landlord shall request, showing in reasonable detail the scope and nature of the Alteration that Tenant desires to construct. 11.2.2 Permits. Such construction shall not commence until Tenant shall have procured and paid for all municipal and other governmental permits and authorizations required therefor (as well as any permits or approvals required in connection with any Permitted Encumbrance), and Landlord shall join in the application for such permits or authorizations whenever such action is necessary; provided, however, that (i) any such joinder shall be at no liability, cost or expense to Landlord; and (ii) any Plans and Specifications required to be filed in connection with any such application that require the approval of Landlord as hereinabove provided shall have been so approved by Landlord. 11.2.3 No Impairment. Such construction shall not, and prior to commencement of such construction Tenant's licensed architect or engineer shall certify to Landlord that such construction shall not, impair the structural strength of any component of the applicable Facility or overburden or impair the operating efficiency of the electrical, water, plumbing, HVAC or other building systems of any such component. 11.2.4 Compliance Certification. Prior to commencing any Alterations, Tenant's licensed architect or engineer shall certify to Landlord that the Plans and Specifications conform to and comply with all Insurance Requirements and all applicable building, subdivision and zoning codes, laws, ordinances, regulations and other Legal Requirements imposed by any Governmental Authorities having jurisdiction over the Leased Property. 11.2.5 Parking. During and following completion of such construction, the parking that is located at the applicable Facility or on the Land relating to such Facility shall remain adequate for the operation of such Facility for its Primary Intended Use and in no event shall such parking be less than is required by any applicable Legal Requirements or was required by any applicable Legal Requirements or was located in such Facility or on the Land relating to such Facility prior to such construction. 11.2.6 Materials; Quality. All work done in connection with such construction shall be done promptly and in a good and workmanlike manner using first-class materials and in conformity with all Legal Requirements. 11.2.7 As-Builts. Promptly following the completion of the construction of any Alterations, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord: (i) "as built" drawings of such Capital Alterations, certified as accurate by the licensed architect or engineer selected by Tenant to supervise such work, and copies of any new or revised certificates of occupancy; and (ii) a certificate from Tenant's licensed architect or engineer certifying to Landlord that such Alterations or Capital Alterations have been completed in compliance with the Plans and Specifications and all applicable Legal Requirements. 44
11.2.8 Certificate of Occupancy. If, by reason of the construction of any Capital Alteration, a new certificate of occupancy for any component of the applicable Facility is required, Tenant shall obtain such certificate in compliance with all applicable Legal Requirements and furnish a copy of the same to Landlord promptly upon receipt thereof. 11.2.9 Lien Waivers. Upon completion of any Alteration or Capital Alteration, Tenant shall promptly deliver to Landlord final lien waivers from each and every general contractor and subcontractor that provided goods or services in connection with such Alteration or Capital Alteration indicating that such contractor or subcontractor has been paid in full for such goods or services, together with such other evidence as Landlord may reasonably require to satisfy Landlord that no liens have been created in connection with such Alteration or Capital Alteration. 11.3 Capital Expenditures Accounts. 11.3.1 Capital Expenditure Account. Commencing on the fifteenth (15th) day of the first full month of the first Lease Year and on every fifteenth (15th) day of each month to occur thereafter during the Term, Tenant shall deposit (the "Capital Expenditure Deposits") in an interest-bearing account (the "Capital Expenditure Account") under the sole dominion and control of Landlord (or any Facility Mortgagee) entitled "capital expenditure holdback account", an amount for each Leased Property equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of the product of (x) $300.00 in the case of each Facility for which the Primary Intended Use is "Senior Nursing Facility" or "Assisted Living Facility" or $500.00 in the case of each Facility for which the Primary Intended Use is "Hospital" (the "Per Bed Allocation"); and (y) the aggregate number of patient beds in such Leased Property. Landlord may reasonably increase the Per Bed Allocation by written notice to Tenant, which reasonable increase shall occur not more than once every two (2) years. The Capital Expenditure Account shall be maintained with a Lending Institution reasonably satisfactory to Landlord (or any Facility Mortgagee) and Tenant hereby grants to Landlord a first priority security interest in the Capital Expenditure Account pursuant to the Uniform Commercial Code (the "UCC") of the State which governs the protection of such security interest. The Capital Expenditure Account shall be used for funding repairs, replacements and capital improvements to be made on any Leased Property from time to time, but in no event shall the Capital Expenditure Account be used for funding repairs or additions to, or replacement of, any of Tenant's Personal Property. All such repairs, replacements and capital improvements funded by the Capital Expenditure Account shall be deemed to be a part of the Premises and be performed subject to the terms of Sections 11.1 and 11.2 relative to Alterations. On the express condition that no Event of Default then exists hereunder, Tenant may request, by written notice to Landlord, that Landlord disburse monies deposited in the Capital Expenditures Account for the purpose of making repairs, replacements and capital improvements on any Leased Property and Landlord shall disburse monies on account of such repairs, replacements and capital improvements promptly after the presentation of invoices therefor provided that: (i) such repairs, replacements and capital improvements are contemplated by the Annual Capital Expenditure Budget; (ii) such repairs, replacements and capital improvements have been completed in a good, workmanlike and lien-free fashion and in compliance with all Legal Requirements and the terms of Section 11.2 applicable to any Alterations; and (iii) Tenant has paid for any Capital Expenditure Difference. Any repairs, replacements or capital improvements that are not contemplated by the Annual Capital Expenditure Budget shall be subject to 45
Landlord's reasonable approval. If Tenant's capital expenditures at the Premises in any Lease Year shall exceed the Capital Expenditure Deposits for such Lease Year (the "Capital Expenditure Difference"), Tenant shall fund the remaining cost of such Capital Expenditure Difference. Any interest that accrues on the funds in the Capital Expenditure Account shall at all times remain in the Capital Expenditure Account. At the expiration of the Term, any funds remaining in the Capital Expenditure Account shall become the property of Landlord unless Landlord determines, in its sole discretion, that no capital repairs or replacements are necessary from and after the Expiration Date to place the Leased Properties in the condition required by Section 9.1 hereof, in which event such funds shall be returned to Tenant. 11.3.2 Annual Capital Expenditure Budget. Within ninety (90) days prior to the commencement of each calendar year, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord, at Tenant's expense, a budget (the "Annual Capital Expenditure Budget") setting forth Tenant's reasonable estimate of the repairs, replacements and capital improvements to the Premises that Tenant anticipates will be necessary in such calendar year to comply with the maintenance, repair and replacement obligations contained in Section 8 hereto and maintain the Leased Properties in a first class condition. The Capital Expenditure Budget shall be subject to Landlord's review and approval (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) for purposes of determining and confirming that the repairs, replacements and capital improvements are sufficient to satisfy Tenant's obligations pursuant to Section 8 hereof; provided, however, that the grant by Landlord of its approval to any Annual Capital Expenditure Budget shall not be deemed a consent, acknowledgement or agreement on Landlord's part that such repairs, replacements or capital improvements are sufficient to satisfy Tenant's obligations pursuant to Section 8 hereunder. Tenant shall perform any and all repairs, replacements or capital improvements contemplated by the Annual Capital Expenditure Budget within twenty-four (24) months after the commencement of the Lease Year to which such Annual Capital Expenditure Budget relates. If Tenant has not completed such repairs, replacements or capital improvements within such twenty-four (24) month period, Landlord may, but shall not be obligated to, complete such repairs, replacements or capital improvements, in which case, Landlord may disburse funds from the Capital Expenditure Account sufficient to pay for such repairs, replacements or capital improvements and Tenant shall pay the cost of any deficiency. 12. Liens. Subject to the provisions of Section 13 below governing a permitted contest by Tenant, Tenant will not, directly or indirectly, create or allow to remain, and will promptly discharge at its expense, any lien, encumbrance, attachment, title retention agreement or claim upon any Leased Property or any attachment, levy, claim or encumbrance in respect of the Rent, not including, however, (a) Permitted Encumbrances consented to in writing by Landlord in its sole discretion, (b) restrictions, liens and other encumbrances that are consented to in writing by Landlord, or any easements permitted to be granted pursuant to the provisions of this Lease, (c) liens for those taxes of Landlord that Tenant is not required to pay hereunder, (d) liens for Impositions or for sums resulting from noncompliance with Legal Requirements, so long as (1) the same are not yet payable or (2) such liens are in the process of being contested as permitted by Section 13, (e) liens of mechanics, laborers, materialmen, suppliers or vendors for sums either disputed in good faith or not yet due, provided that (1) the payment of such sums shall not be postponed under any related contract for more than sixty (60) days after the completion of the work giving rise to such lien and such reserve or other appropriate provisions as shall be required by law or generally accepted accounting principles shall have been made 46
therefor or (2) any such liens are in the process of being contested as permitted by Section 13, and (f) any liens that are expressly the responsibility of Landlord hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall bond over any lien affecting the applicable Leased Property if Landlord shall request, or if any applicable Facility Mortgagee shall so require. 13. Permitted Contests. Tenant, on its own or on Landlord's behalf (or in Landlord's name), but at Tenant's expense, may contest, by appropriate legal proceedings, conducted in good faith and with due diligence, the amount, validity or application, in whole or in part, of any Imposition or any lien, attachment, levy, encumbrance, charge or claim not otherwise permitted by Section 12, provided that (a) in the case of an unpaid Imposition, lien, attachment, levy, encumbrance, charge, or claim, the commencement and continuation of such proceedings shall suspend the collection thereof from Landlord and from the applicable Leased Property, (b) neither the applicable Leased Property nor any Rent therefrom nor any part thereof or interest therein would be reasonably likely to be in danger of being sold, forfeited, attached or lost, (c) Tenant shall indemnify and hold harmless Landlord from and against any Losses incurred by Landlord and the Landlord Indemnified Parties in connection therewith or as a result thereof, (d) Tenant shall give such security as may be demanded by Landlord to insure ultimate payment of, or compliance with, the same and to prevent any sale or forfeiture of the affected Leased Property or the Rent by reason of such non-payment or non-compliance; provided, however, the provisions of this Section 13 shall not be construed to permit Tenant to contest the payment of Rent or any other sums payable by Tenant to Landlord hereunder, (e) in the case of the contest of an Insurance Requirement, the coverage required by Section 14 shall be maintained, and (f) if such contest is resolved against Landlord or Tenant, Tenant shall, as Additional Rent due hereunder, pay to the appropriate payee the amount required to be paid, together with all interest and penalties accrued thereon, within ten (10) days after such determination (or within such shorter period as may be required by the terms of such determination), and comply, within any cure period allowed therefor by the applicable agency or authority (or if no such cure period shall be allowed or specified by the applicable agency or authority, promptly and diligently following the effective date of such determination); provided, however, that this subsection (f) is not intended, and shall not be construed, to afford Tenant any cure or grace period beyond the effective date of any final unappealable determination. Landlord, at Tenant's expense, shall execute and deliver to Tenant such authorizations and other documents as may reasonably be required in any such contest, and, if reasonably requested by Tenant or if Landlord so desires, Landlord shall join as a party therein. Tenant shall indemnify and save Landlord and the Landlord Indemnified Parties harmless against any Losses of any kind that may be imposed upon Landlord in connection with any such contest and any loss resulting therefrom. The terms of this Section 13 shall survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease. 14. Insurance. 14.1 General Insurance Requirements. Tenant shall obtain and maintain, or cause to be maintained, insurance for Tenant and the Leased Properties providing at least the following coverages: 14.1.1 Coverage for loss or damage by fire, lightning, wind and such other perils as are included in a standard "all risk" or "special causes of loss" endorsement and 47
against loss or damage by other risks and hazards covered by a standard property insurance policy including, without limitation, riot, civil commotion, vandalism, malicious mischief, burglary and theft on the Leased Improvements and of the Tenant's Personal Property at each Leased Property, including contingent liability from "Operation of Building Laws", "Demolition Costs" and "Increased Cost of Construction" endorsements, in each case (A) in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the Full Replacement Cost of such Leased Property; (B) containing an agreed amount endorsement with respect to the Leased Improvements and Tenant's Personal Property at the Leased Properties waiving all co-insurance provisions; (C) providing for no deductible in excess of Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,000.00) for all such insurance coverage; and (D) containing (a) an "Ordinance or Law Coverage" or "Enforcement" endorsement and (b) "demolition" insurance (in an amount equal to at least ten percent (10%) of the value of the Leased Improvements at any Leased Property) and "increased cost of construction" insurance (equal to at least twenty-five percent (25%) of the value of the Leased Improvements), if any of the Leased Improvements or the use of any Leased Property shall at any time constitute legal non-conforming structures or uses. In addition, each Tenant shall obtain: (y) if any portion of the Leased Improvements at any Leased Property is currently or at any time in the future located in a federally designated "special flood hazard area", flood hazard insurance in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the Full Replacement Cost of such portion of such Leased Improvements or (2) the maximum amount of such insurance available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 or the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994, as each may be amended; and (z) earthquake insurance in amounts and in form and substance satisfactory to Landlord in the event that any Leased Property is located in an area with a high degree of seismic activity, provided that the insurance pursuant to clauses (y) and (z) hereof shall be on terms consistent with the comprehensive all risk insurance policy required under this Section 14.1.1. 14.1.2 Commercial general liability insurance against claims for personal injury, bodily injury, death or damage to the Leased Properties occurring upon, in or about each Leased Property, such insurance (A) to be on the so-called "occurrence" form with a combined limit, excluding umbrella coverage, of not less than One Million and No/100 Dollars ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence with a minimum Two Million and No/100 Dollars ($3,000,000.00) general aggregate with limits applying on a "per location" basis; (B) to continue at not less than the aforesaid limit until required to be changed by Landlord by reason of changed economic conditions making such protection inadequate; (C) to cover at least the following: (1) premises and operations; (2) products and completed operations on an "if any" basis; (3) independent contractors; (4) blanket contractual liability for all legal contracts; (5) contractual liability covering indemnities, if any, given by Tenant contained in the Facility Mortgage, if any, applicable to the Leased Property, to the extent the same is available; (6) broad form property damage; (7) personal injury (including death resulting therefrom); (8) healthcare professional liability and (9) a liquor liability endorsement if alcoholic beverages are sold at any Leased Property; and (D) providing for a deductible not in excess of Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,000.00). 14.1.3 Business interruption insurance (A) with loss payable to Landlord; (B) covering all risks required to be covered by the insurance provided for in Section 14.1.1 above and Section 14.1.11 below; (C) in an amount sufficient to avoid any co-insurance penalty and to provide proceeds that will cover a period of not less than eighteen (18) months 48
from the date of casualty or loss; (D) containing an extended period of indemnity endorsement that provides that after the physical loss to the applicable Leased Property has been repaired, the continued loss of income will be insured until such income returns to the same level it was prior to the loss, or the expiration twenty-four (24) months from the date of the loss, whichever first occurs, and notwithstanding that the policy may expire prior to the end of such period. The amount of coverage shall be an annual aggregate amount equal to the projected gross revenue from the Leased Properties, assuming the aggregate occupancy at the Facilities equals ninety-five percent (95%). The amount of coverage shall be adjusted annually by Landlord to reflect the projected gross revenue during the succeeding eighteen (18) month period. 14.1.4 At all times during which Alterations or structural construction or repairs are being made with respect to any of the Leased Improvements, and only if the Leased Properties' coverage form does not otherwise apply, (A) owner's contingent or protective liability insurance covering claims not covered by or under the terms or provisions of the above mentioned commercial general liability insurance policy; and (B) the insurance provided for in Section 14.1.1 above written in a so-called builder's risk completed value form (1) on a non-reporting basis, (2) against all risks insured against pursuant to Section 14.1.1 above, (3) including permission to occupy the Leased Properties, and (4) with an agreed amount endorsement waiving co-insurance provisions. 14.1.5 Workers' compensation, subject to the statutory limits of the State in which the applicable Leased Property is located, and employer's liability insurance with a limit of at least One Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($100,000.00) per accident and per disease, per employee, and Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($500,000.00) aggregate in respect of any work or operations on or about any Leased Property, or in connection with Leased Property or its operation (if applicable). 14.1.6 Broad form boiler and machinery insurance (without exclusion for explosion) covering all boilers or other pressure vessels, machinery, and equipment located in, on or about any Leased Property (including "system breakdown coverage") in an amount equal to or greater than the repair and full replacement cost of such equipment and insurance against loss of occupancy or use arising from any breakdown of such equipment in such amounts as are generally required by institutional lenders for properties comparable to the Leased Properties. 14.1.7 Umbrella liability insurance in addition to primary coverage in an amount not less than Twenty-Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($25,000,000.00) per occurrence on terms consistent with the commercial general liability insurance policy required under Section 14.1.2 above that cover all claims typically covered by an umbrella liability policy including all legal liability imposed upon the applicable Tenant and all court costs and attorneys' fees in connection with the operation and maintenance of the Leased Properties. 14.1.8 Motor vehicle liability coverage for all owned and non-owned vehicles, including rented and leased vehicles containing minimum limits per occurrence, including umbrella coverage, of One Million and No/100 Dollars ($1,000,000.00). 49
14.1.9 If alcoholic beverages are sold at any Leased Property, so-called "dramshop" insurance or other liability insurance required in connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages. 14.1.10 Insurance against employee dishonesty in an amount not less than six (6) months of gross revenue from the Leased Properties and with a deductible not greater than Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,000.00). 14.1.11 If the insurance required under Section 14.1.1 above excludes coverage for acts of terrorism, Tenant shall provide terrorism insurance coverage in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the Full Replacement Cost of the Leased Properties or (2) the maximum amount of such insurance that is reasonably commercially available, unless at the time of determination: (A) it is not available at commercially reasonable rates; (B) terrorism insurance is not commonly maintained by owners of other similar properties and (C) terrorism insurance is not required for loans similar to the Primary Loan and secured by property similar to the Leased Properties. 14.1.12 Such other reasonable insurance and in such reasonable amounts as Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee, if applicable, from time to time may reasonably request against such other insurable hazards or casualties that at the time are commonly insured against for property similar to the Leased Properties located in or around the region in which the Leased Properties are located including, without limitation, sinkhole, mine subsidence and environmental insurance, due regard being given to the height and type of the applicable Leased Property, construction, location, use and occupancy. 14.2 Policies; Certificates. All insurance provided for in Section 14.1 above shall be obtained under valid and enforceable policies (the "Policies") and, to the extent not specified above, shall be subject to the approval of Landlord as to deductibles, loss payees and insureds. Not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration dates of the Policies theretofore furnished to Landlord, certificates of insurance evidencing the Policies accompanied by evidence satisfactory to Landlord of payment of the premiums then due thereunder (the "Insurance Premiums"), shall be delivered by Tenant to Landlord. Tenant shall deliver certified copies of the Policies to Landlord within thirty (30) days of the date hereof and thereafter upon request. All Policies must have a term of not less than one (1) year. 14.3 Blanket Policies. Any blanket Policy shall specifically allocate to each Leased Property the amount of coverage from time to time required hereunder and shall otherwise provide the same protection as would a separate Policy insuring only such Leased Property in compliance with the provisions of Section 14.1. 14.4 Additional Insured. All Policies provided for or contemplated by Section 14.1 above, except for the Policy referenced in Section 14.1.5, shall name each applicable Tenant as the insured and Landlord and any Facility Mortgagee and its/their successors and/or assigns as the additional insured, as its/their interests may appear, and in the case of property damage, terrorism insurance, boiler and machinery, flood and earthquake insurance, shall contain a so-called New York standard non-contributing mortgagee clause in 50
favor of Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee, as applicable, providing that the loss thereunder shall be payable to Landlord or such Facility Mortgagee, as applicable. 14.5 Policy Requirements. All Policies of insurance provided for in Section 14.1 shall contain clauses or endorsements to the effect that: (i) no act or negligence of Tenant or any Tenant Party, or failure to comply with the provisions of any Policy, which might otherwise result in a forfeiture of the insurance or any part thereof, shall in any way affect the validity or enforceability of the insurance insofar as Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee is concerned; (ii) the Policy shall not be materially changed (other than to increase the coverage provided thereby) or canceled without at least thirty (30) days' written notice to Landlord, any Facility Mortgagee and any other party named therein as an additional insured; (iii) neither Landlord nor any Facility Mortgagee shall be liable for any Insurance Premiums thereon or subject to any assessments thereunder; and (iv) to the extent available at commercially reasonable rates, a waiver of subrogation rights as to Landlord and any Facility Mortgagee. 14.6 Evidence of Compliance. If at any time Landlord is not in receipt of written evidence that all insurance required hereunder is in full force and effect, Landlord shall have the right, without notice to Tenant, to take such action as Landlord deems necessary to protect its interest in the Leased Properties, including, without limitation, the obtaining of such insurance coverage as Landlord in its sole discretion deems appropriate and all premiums incurred by Landlord in connection with such action or in obtaining such insurance and keeping it in effect shall be paid by Tenant to Landlord upon demand and until paid and shall bear interest at the Overdue Rate. 14.7 Foreclosure; Transfer. In the event of foreclosure of any Facility Mortgage or other transfer of title to any Leased Property, all right, title and interest of the applicable Tenant in and to the Policies that are not blanket Policies then in force concerning the Leased Properties and all proceeds payable thereunder shall thereupon vest in the purchaser at such foreclosure or Landlord, Facility Mortgagee or other transferee in the event of such other transfer of title. 14.8 Insurance Company. The Policies shall be issued by one or more domestic primary insurance companies, duly qualified in the jurisdictions where the Leased Properties are located and rated A: VII or better by A.M. Best and having a claims-paying ability of at least "AA" or its equivalent by each of the Rating Agencies, or by a syndicate of insurers through which at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the coverage (if there are four (4) or fewer members of the syndicate) or at least sixty percent (60%) of the coverage (if there are five (5) or more members of the syndicate) is with carriers having such claims-paying ability ratings (provided that all such carriers shall have claims-paying ability ratings of not less than "A" or the equivalent by each of the Rating Agencies). 51
15. Damage and Destruction. 15.1 Notice of Casualty. If any Leased Property shall be destroyed, in whole or in part, or damaged by Casualty, Tenant shall give prompt written notice thereof to Landlord and any Facility Mortgagee, in no event more than three (3) Business Days after the occurrence of a Casualty. Within fifteen (15) days after the occurrence of a Casualty, or as soon thereafter as such information is reasonably available to Tenant, Tenant shall provide the following information to Landlord: (i) the date of the Casualty; (ii) the nature of the Casualty; (iii) a description of the damage or destruction caused by the Casualty, including, but not limited to, the type of Leased Property damaged, the area of the Leased Improvements damaged and the general extent of such damage; (iv) a preliminary estimate of the cost to repair, rebuild, restore or replace the Leased Property; (v) a preliminary estimate of the schedule to complete the repair, rebuilding, restoration or replacement of the Leased Property; (vi) a description of the anticipated property insurance claim, including, but not limited to, the name of the insurer, the insurance coverage limits, the deductible amounts, the expected settlement amount and the expected settlement date; and (vii) a description of the business interruption claim, including, but not limited to, the name of the insurer, the insurance coverage limits, the deductible amounts, the expected settlement amount and the expected settlement date. Tenant shall provide Landlord with copies of any and all material correspondence to and from the insurance provider within five (5) Business Days after Tenant's receipt or submission thereof and provide any other information reasonably requested by Landlord. 15.2 Substantial Destruction. Except as otherwise set forth herein, if a Facility is substantially destroyed or rendered Unsuitable For Its Primary Intended Use by a Casualty at any time during the Term, Landlord may elect to terminate this Lease with respect to the Leased Property on which such Facility is located by providing written notice to Tenant within ninety (90) days of the date upon which Tenant notifies Landlord of the Casualty, which termination shall be effective as of the date of Tenant's receipt of such notice. If Landlord elects to terminate, then, subject to the requirements of any Facility Mortgage binding upon or secured by the Leased Property, Landlord shall receive any and all of the insurance proceeds payable by reason of the Casualty (the "Casualty Insurance Proceeds") and Tenant shall immediately pay to Landlord an amount equal to any uninsured deductible, and as of the date of such termination, the applicable Leased Property shall be deleted from this Lease and the provisions of Section 17.9 governing a deletion of a Leased Property after Casualty shall be applicable. If Landlord does not elect to terminate, then Tenant shall promptly rebuild and restore the Leased Property in accordance with Section 15.4 below and Landlord shall make the Casualty Insurance Proceeds available to Tenant for such restoration only pursuant to, and in accordance with, Section 15.5 below. The term "substantially destroyed" means any Casualty resulting in the loss of use of fifty percent (50%) or more of the licensed beds at the Facility located on the relevant Leased Property or that would require more than fifty percent (50%) of the value of the Leased Improvements to restore. 15.3 Partial Destruction. If a Leased Property is damaged by a Casualty but the Facility(ies) located on such Leased Property is not substantially destroyed or rendered Unsuitable For Its Primary Intended Use, then, subject to the requirements of any Facility Mortgage binding upon, or secured by, the Leased Property, Tenant shall restore the Leased Property in accordance with the requirements of Section 15.4 below and Landlord shall make the 52
Casualty Insurance Proceeds available to Tenant for such restoration pursuant to Section 15.5 below. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such Casualty shall occur during the final two (2) Lease Years of the Term, then Landlord shall have the right to terminate this Lease with respect to such Leased Property and retain any Casualty Insurance Proceeds, by delivering notice of such election to Tenant within ninety (90) days of its receipt of notice from Tenant of such Casualty, which termination shall be effective as of the date such notice of termination from Landlord is received by Tenant, whereupon Tenant shall immediately pay to Landlord the amount of any uninsured deductible and the applicable Leased Property shall be deleted herefrom pursuant to Section 17.9 below governing the deletion of a Leased Property in connection with a Casualty. 15.4 Restoration. 15.4.1 Commencement of Restoration. Within forty-five (45) days after the soonest to occur of (i) Tenant's receipt of notice from Landlord directing Tenant to restore a Leased Property damaged or destroyed by a Casualty, (ii) in the case of a Casualty that results in Landlord having the option to terminate this Lease as to the affected Leased Property pursuant to Section 15.2 or 15.3, the expiration of the period in which Landlord may exercise such option to terminate if Landlord fails to affirmatively elect to terminate this Lease with respect to such Leased Property, or (iii) in the case of damage to a Leased Property by Casualty that does not result in the substantial destruction or the rendering Unsuitable For Its Primary Intended Use of the applicable Facility(ies), and that does not occur during the final two Lease Years of the Term, the date of such Casualty, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord complete plans and specifications (the "Restoration Plans and Specifications") describing the work Tenant intends to undertake to restore the applicable Leased Property (the "Work") for Landlord's review and approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. The Restoration Plans and Specifications shall be prepared in accordance with good and customary construction and design practices and bear the signed approval thereof by an architect licensed to do business in the State where the applicable Leased Property is located and shall be accompanied by a written estimate from the architect containing the projected cost of completing the Work. The Restoration Plans and Specifications shall contemplate Work of such nature, quality and extent that, upon the completion thereof, the Leased Property shall be at least equal in value and general utility to its value and general utility prior to the Casualty and shall be adequate to operate the applicable Facility(ies) for its Primary Intended Use. Prior to commencing any Work, Tenant shall satisfy all of the terms and conditions set forth in Sections 11.2.1 through 11.2.4 hereof relative to Alterations as to the Work and the Restoration Plans and Specifications. 15.4.2 Permits. Prior to the commencement of the Work, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord certified or photostatic copies of all permits and contracts required by any and all applicable Legal Requirements or Insurance Requirements in connection with the commencement and conduct of the Work. 15.4.3 Conduct of Work. Upon satisfaction of the requirements set forth in Section 15.4.1 and Section 15.4.2 above, Tenant shall perform the Work diligently and in a good, workmanlike and lien-free fashion, in accordance with (i) the Restoration Plans and Specifications; (ii) the permits and contracts referred to in Section 15.4.2 above; and (iii) all applicable Legal Requirements and other requirements of this Lease. 53
15.5 Disbursement of Insurance Proceeds. Tenant shall use its best efforts to complete the Work on or prior to the estimated completion date provided by its architect. If Landlord is required or elects to apply any Casualty Insurance Proceeds toward repair or restoration of the applicable Facility, provided Tenant is diligently performing the Work in accordance with this Lease, Landlord shall disburse such Casualty Insurance Proceeds as and when required by Tenant in accordance with normal and customary practice for the payment of a general contractor in connection with construction projects similar in scope and nature to the Work, including, at Landlord's option, the withholding of 10% of each disbursement of such Casualty Insurance Proceeds until the Work is completed as evidenced by a certificate of occupancy or similar evidence issued upon an inspection by the applicable Governmental Authority and proof has been furnished to Landlord that no lien or liability has attached or will attach to the applicable Leased Property or to Landlord in connection with the Work. Upon the completion of the Work and the furnishing of such proof, the balance of the Casualty Insurance Proceeds payable to Tenant on account of the Work shall be paid to Tenant as and when the terms of Sections 15.4.1 through 15.4.3 have been complied with. Prior to any final disbursement of Casualty Insurance Proceeds, Tenant shall satisfy all of the conditions set forth in Sections 11.2.5 through 11.2.9 relative to Alterations as to the Work, as well as provide evidence reasonably satisfactory to Landlord that any amounts required to be paid by Tenant in connection with such Work pursuant to Section 15.6 below have been paid in full. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, any Facility Mortgagee may retain and disburse the Casualty Insurance Proceeds and Tenant shall comply with the requests and requirements of such Facility Mortgagee in connection with the Work and the disbursement of Casualty Insurance Proceeds. 15.6 Insufficient Proceeds/Risk of Loss. If the Casualty Insurance Proceeds are not sufficient to pay the costs of the Work in full, Tenant shall be responsible, at its sole cost and expense, to complete the Work. Tenant expressly assumes all risk of loss, including, without limitation, a decrease in the use, enjoyment or value, of the Leased Property from any Casualty whatsoever, whether or not insurable or insured against. Tenant shall pay any insurance deductible and any other uninsured Losses. 15.7 Excess Proceeds. Provided no Event of Default exists and this Lease is not terminated pursuant to Section 15 with respect to the Leased Property on which the applicable Facility is located, Tenant shall be entitled to any amount by which the Casualty Insurance Proceeds exceed the amount necessary to complete the Work, which excess Casualty Insurance Proceeds shall be promptly paid by Landlord to Tenant only following the disbursement of Casualty Insurance Proceeds necessary to complete the Work in accordance with Section 15.5. 15.8 Landlord's Inspection. During the progress of the Work, Landlord and Landlord's Representatives may, from time to time, inspect the Work and the Leased Property. If, during such inspection or otherwise, Landlord and Landlord's Representatives determine that the Work is not being done in accordance with the Restoration Plans and Specifications, this Lease or any Legal Requirements, Landlord will give prompt written notice to Tenant, setting forth in reasonable specificity and detail any defect in the Work. Upon the receipt of any such notice, Tenant will cause corrections to be made to any such defect. 54
16. Condemnation. 16.1 Parties' Rights and Obligations. If during the Term there is any Condemnation of all or any part of any Leased Property, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be determined by this Section 16. 16.2 Total Taking. If any Leased Property is totally taken by Condemnation, this Lease shall terminate as to such Leased Property on the Date of Taking, in which event the provisions of Section 17.9 governing the deletion of one or more Leased Properties from this Lease upon a Condemnation shall apply. 16.3 Partial Taking. If any portion of any Leased Property is taken by Condemnation, this Lease shall remain in effect as to such Leased Property if the Facility(ies) located thereon is not thereby rendered Unsuitable For Its Primary Intended Use as reasonably determined by Landlord, but if the Facility(ies) is/are thereby rendered Unsuitable For Its Primary Intended Use, this Lease shall terminate as to such Leased Property on the Date of Taking, in which event the provisions of Section 17.9 governing the deletion of one or more Leased Properties from this Lease upon a Condemnation shall apply. If, as a result of any such partial taking by Condemnation, this Lease is not terminated as provided above, Tenant's obligation to make payments of Rent and to pay all other charges required under this Lease shall remain unabated during the Term notwithstanding such Condemnation (provided that Landlord shall credit against such payments any amount of any Award specifically attributable to Tenant pursuant to Section 16.5). 16.4 Restoration. If there is a partial taking by Condemnation of any Leased Property and this Lease remains in full force and effect pursuant to Section 16.3, Tenant at its cost shall accomplish all necessary restoration, which restoration activities shall be performed in accordance with the terms and conditions applicable to Work under Section 15. 16.5 Award-Distribution. 16.5.1 Partial Taking. In the event of any partial taking by Condemnation of any Leased Property, the entire Award shall belong to and be paid to Landlord, except that, subject to the rights of the Facility Mortgagees, Tenant shall be entitled to receive from the Award, if and to the extent such Award specifically includes such item, the following: (i) a sum specifically attributable to Tenant's Personal Property and any reasonable removal and relocation costs included in the Award; and (ii) a sum specifically attributable to the cost of restoring the Leased Property in accordance with Section 16.4 hereof; and (iii) a sum specifically attributable to the interruption of business operations, which sum shall be credited against payments of Rent and other charges due from Tenant to Landlord under this Lease. 16.5.2 Total Taking. In the event of a total taking by Condemnation of any Leased Property, the Award shall be solely the property of Landlord, whether such 55
damages shall be awarded as compensation for diminution in value of the leasehold or the fee estate of the Premises, provided, however, Tenant shall be entitled to any damages specifically attributable to reasonable removal and relocation costs included in the Award. 16.6 Temporary Taking. The taking of any Leased Property, or any part thereof, by military or other public authority shall constitute a taking by Condemnation only when the use and occupancy by the Condemnor has continued for longer than four (4) months. During any such four (4) month period all the provisions of this Lease shall remain in full force and effect and Rent shall not be abated or reduced during such period of taking. 16.7 Facility Mortgagee. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, in the event that any Facility Mortgagee elects to require that any Casualty Insurance Proceeds in connection with any Casualty, or the Award in connection with any Condemnation, be applied by Landlord to reduce the outstanding principal balance of any loan secured by any Leased Property, Landlord may elect, in its sole discretion and by written notice to Tenant, delivered promptly after the receipt of written notice by Landlord of such election from Facility Mortgagee, to terminate this Lease as to the Leased Property affected by such Casualty or Condemnation, in which event the provisions of Section 17.9 governing a deletion of one or more Leased Properties from this Lease after a Casualty or Condemnation shall apply. Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 15 or Section 16 hereof, Tenant shall remain liable for any uninsured portion of any Casualty or the cost of any restoration not covered by an Award in the event this Lease is terminated as to the applicable Leased Property pursuant to Section 15 or Section 16 hereof. 17. Default. 17.1 Events of Default. The occurrence of any one or more of the following events shall constitute an "Event of Default" under this Lease: 17.1.1 Payment Default. Tenant fails to make payment of the Rent or any other sum payable under or pursuant to the terms of this Lease when the same becomes due and payable. 17.1.2 Certain Covenant Defaults. Tenant fails to observe or perform any term, covenant or agreement on its part to be performed or observed pursuant to Section 3.4.3, Section 8.1.17, Section 8.2.1, Section 8.2.6, Section 8.3, Section 14.2, Section 14.5, Section 12, item (f) of Section 13, or Section 14.1. 17.1.3 General Covenant Defaults. Tenant fails to observe or perform any material term, covenant or condition of this Lease not specifically provided for in this Section 17.1 and such failure is not cured within a period of thirty (30) days after receipt of notice from Landlord. 17.1.4 Licensure, Authorization or Facility Provider Agreement Defaults. The receipt of written notice or formal notice of any pending, threatened or contemplated, or the occurrence of any, (i) determination by applicable Governmental Authorities of Tenant's non-compliance with Legal Requirements applicable to any Leased Property, or (ii) revocation of any license, permit, approval or other Authorization (including, 56
without limitation, any CON) required for the lawful operation of a Leased Property in accordance with its Primary Intended Use, or (iii) other circumstances under which (a) Tenant is, or may be, required by a determination of any such Governmental Authority to cease operations of such Facility in accordance with its Primary Intended Use or (b) any Facility Provider Agreement or reimbursement agreement, or certification of Tenant under Medicare or Medicaid pursuant thereto, is, or may be, terminated, in whole or in part, prior to the expiration of the term thereof or, without the prior written consent of Landlord in each instance (which consent may be withheld in Landlord's sole and absolute discretion), is not (or may not be) renewed or extended, in whole or in part, upon the expiration of the stated term thereof. The receipt by any Facility of any "Level A" (or its equivalent) violation under Medicare or Medicaid, as applicable, or the statement of charges or deficiencies with respect to such Facility under Medicare or Medicaid. 17.1.5 Representations and Warranties. Any representation or warranty made by or on behalf of Tenant under or in connection with this Lease or any document, financial statement, certificate or agreement delivered by or on behalf of Tenant in connection with this Lease (including, but not limited to, any Officer's Certificate or Estoppel Certificate) proves to have been false or misleading in any material respect on the day when made or deemed made. 17.1.6 Bankruptcy. Any Tenant, Guarantor or any Affiliate of Tenant or Guarantor: (i) admits in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due; (ii) files a petition in bankruptcy or a petition to take advantage of any bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency act; (iii) makes an assignment for the benefit of its creditors; (iv) consents to the appointment of a receiver for itself or for the whole or any substantial part of its property; or (v) files a petition or answer seeking reorganization or arrangement under the federal bankruptcy laws or any other applicable law or statute of the United States of America or any state thereof. 17.1.7 Bankruptcy Petition. Any petition is filed by or against any Tenant, any Guarantor or any Affiliate of any Tenant or any Guarantor either under federal bankruptcy laws, or any other proceeding is instituted by or against any Tenant, any Guarantor or any Affiliate of Tenant or any Guarantor seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for any Tenant, Guarantor or any Affiliate of any Tenant or any Guarantor, or for any substantial part of the property of any Tenant, any Guarantor or any Affiliate of any Tenant or any Guarantor, and such proceeding is not dismissed within sixty (60) days after institution thereof, or any Tenant, any Guarantor or any Affiliate of any Tenant or any Guarantor 57
shall take any action to authorize or effect any of the actions set forth above in this Section 17.1.7. 17.1.8 Liquidation. Any Tenant, any Guarantor or any Affiliate of any Tenant or any Guarantor is liquidated or dissolved, or shall begin proceedings toward such liquidation or dissolution. 17.1.9 Levy. The estate or interest of any Tenant in any Leased Property or any part thereof is levied upon or attached in any proceeding and the same shall not be vacated or discharged within the later of sixty (60) days after commencement thereof or thirty (30) days after receipt by such Tenant of notice thereof from Landlord or any other Person (unless such Tenant shall be contesting such lien or attachment in good faith in accordance with Section 13 hereof). 17.1.10 Receiver. Any receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official is appointed for any Tenant, any Guarantor or any of the Facilities and any such appointment is not dismissed within sixty (60) days after the date of such appointment and prior to the entry of a final, unappealable order approving such appointment. 17.1.11 Final Unappealable Determination. If a final unappealable determination shall have been made by any applicable Governmental Authority of any Tenant's non-compliance with material Legal Requirements applicable to any Facility, or of the revocation of any Authorization required for the operation of any Facility for its Primary Intended Use, or any other circumstances under which any Tenant is required by a final unappealable determination of any such Governmental Authority to cease operations of such Leased Property for its Primary Intended Use. 17.1.12 Reduction in Number of Licensed Beds. There is a reduction in the number of licensed beds set forth on Schedule 17.1.12 attached hereto or a change in the type of licensed beds for any Facility in violation of the requirements of this Lease. 17.1.13 Failure to Correct Deficiencies. Any Tenant shall fail to correct, within the time deadlines set by any Medicare, Medicaid, licensing or similar agency, any deficiency that justifies either of the following actions by such agency with respect to any Facility and such agency commences either of the following actions: (1) a termination of any Facility Provider Agreement or Third Party Payor Program; or (2) a ban on new admissions generally or on admission of patients otherwise qualifying for Medicaid or Medicare coverage. 17.1.14 Material Fines. Any Leased Property is assessed material fines or penalties by any state or any Medicare, Medicaid, health, reimbursement, licensing or similar agency having jurisdiction over any Tenant or any Leased Property. 17.1.15 Determination of Deficiency. With respect to any Facility, any Governmental Authority (a) makes a substandard quality of care determination regarding 58
such Facility, which determination is not corrected within ninety (90) days provided that (i) if the determination in question is of such a nature that it cannot be reasonably cured within ninety (90) days; and (ii) Tenant is diligently pursuing a cure, such ninety (90) day cure period may be reasonably extended to up to one hundred eighty (180) days in the aggregate); (b) makes a determination that such Facility is not in substantial compliance with any applicable regulatory requirements, which determination is not corrected within ninety (90) days provided that (i) if the determination in question is of such a nature that it cannot be reasonably cured within ninety (90) days; and (ii) Tenant is diligently pursing a cure, such ninety (90) day cure period may be reasonably extended to up to one hundred eighty (180) days in the aggregate); (c) designates any portion of such Facility or the entirety of such Facility as part of a "poor performing chain"; (d) cites deficiencies at the scope or severity of "G", "H" or higher with respect to such Facility and for which no plan of correction is in place within ten (10) days of receipt of such deficiency statement; (e) cites deficiencies at the scope and severity of "G", "H" or higher with respect to such Facility for which a plan of correction has been filed but not approved by such Governmental Authority, with such designation, determination or action continuing unremedied for a period of ninety (90) days provided that (i) if the designation, determination or action in question is of such a nature that it cannot be reasonably cured within ninety (90) days; and (ii) Tenant is diligently pursuing a cure, such ninety (90) day cure period may be reasonably extended to up to one hundred eighty (180) days in the aggregate) (ten (10) days for immediate jeopardy deficiencies) following any Tenant's first receipt of notice of such designation, determination or action; or (f) takes adverse regulatory action with respect to such Facility, including, without limitation, the imposing of civil money penalties, with such designation, determination or action continuing unremedied for a period of sixty (60) days (ten (10) days for immediate jeopardy deficiencies) following any Tenant's receipt of notice of such designation, determination or action. 17.1.16 Cessation of Services. Except pursuant to the terms hereof, any cessation of operations at any Facility. 17.1.17 Reporting Obligations. Any Tenant fails to observe or perform any term, covenant or other obligation of Tenant set forth in Section 8.2.6 or Section 25 hereof and such failure is not cured within a period of five (5) days after receipt of notice thereof from Landlord. 17.1.18 Admissions Hold. Any ban or limitation upon the admission of patients or residents to any Facility by any Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over the licensure of Medicare or Medicaid certification of such Facility is imposed and such ban or limitation is not removed within ten (10) days (three (3) days for immediate jeopardy deficiencies); provided, however, that if Tenant files a plan of correction with respect to such ban or limitation within ten (10) days of the imposition of such ban or limitation, the continuance of such ban or limitation shall not mature into an Event of Default until sixty (60) days after the imposition of such ban or limitation. 17.1.19 Encumbrances. An Encumbrance Event of Default as described in Section 8.2.7 occurs. 59
17.1.20 Lease Guaranty; Cross Default. (i) Any Guarantor shall be in material default pursuant to the Lease Guaranty beyond applicable notice and cure periods (if any) therein contained; (ii) Tenant, Guarantor or any borrower pursuant to the Loan Transaction shall be in material default beyond applicable notice and cure periods pursuant to any of the loan agreements, notes, mortgages, deeds of trust or other security instruments evidencing or securing the Loan Transaction (such documents, the "Loan Documents"); or (iii) Tenant, Guarantor or any Affiliate of Tenant or Guarantor shall be in default beyond any applicable notice and cure periods pursuant to the terms of any note, mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement and/or loan agreement evidencing or securing a loan or financial accommodation provided by Landlord or any Affiliate of Landlord to any such parties. 17.1.21 Reserve Event. The occurrence of any Reserve Event. 17.2 Existence and Continuation. An Event of Default shall be deemed to be existing and continuing if Landlord shall have, prior to any cure of such Event of Default by Tenant, exercised, or informed Tenant in writing of its intent to exercise, any remedy available to Landlord with respect to such Event of Default pursuant to Section 17.3 or otherwise, regardless of whether or not Tenant shall have remedied such Event of Default subsequent to such exercise or notification by Landlord. 17.3 Remedy Election. Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default, Landlord may, at its option and by written notice to Tenant, terminate this Lease (i) as to the Premises or (ii) as to any one or more of the Leased Property(ies) (selected in Landlord's sole discretion and by written notice to Tenant), upon receipt of which notice by Tenant, Tenant shall have no right to cure the Event of Default in question, all rights of Tenant under this Lease shall cease as to the Leased Property(ies) so specified, and, if the Leased Property(ies) so specified is/are less than all of the Premises, the provisions of Section 17.9 shall apply. Notwithstanding any Limited Termination Election, Tenant shall pay, to the maximum extent permitted by law, as Additional Rent, all Litigation Costs as a result of any Event of Default hereunder. Landlord shall have all rights at law and in equity available to Landlord as a result of an Event of Default or Tenant's material breach of this Lease. As to any Event of Default, Landlord may elect, in its sole discretion, to (i) exercise its rights pursuant to Section 39 relative to an Operational Transfer by delivering a Transition Notice to Tenant as to any Leased Property(ies) that is/are the subject of an Event of Default; and (ii) terminate (a "Limited Termination Election") this Lease as to less than all of the Leased Properties (the Leased Property(ies) as to which Landlord elects to terminate this Lease, the "Terminated Lease Properties"). If Landlord exercises a Limited Termination Election, each remaining Tenant shall be liable for any and all damages owing from Tenant applicable to a Terminated Lease Property pursuant to this Section 17. Without limitation of the foregoing, if Landlord makes a Limited Termination Election, the provisions of Section 17.9 governing a deletion of one or more Leased Properties from this Lease shall apply to the Terminated Lease Properties; provided, however, that the deletion of such Terminated Lease Properties from this Lease shall be absolutely without limitation upon Tenant's obligation (on a joint and several basis) for the damages and other amounts owing on account of the Event of Default giving rise to the deletion herefrom of the Terminated Lease Properties. 17.4 Certain Remedies. If an Event of Default shall have occurred, Tenant shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law, if and to the extent required by Landlord so to 60
do, immediately surrender to Landlord the Leased Property(ies) specified by Landlord and as to which the Lease has been or may be terminated pursuant to Section 17.2 or otherwise and quit the same, and Landlord may enter upon and repossess such Leased Property(ies) by reasonable force, summary proceedings, ejectment or otherwise, and may remove Tenant and all other persons and any and all personal property from such Leased Property(ies) subject to the rights of any occupants or patients and to any requirement of law. 17.5 Damages. To the extent permitted by law, neither (a) the termination of this Lease pursuant to Section 17.2, (b) the repossession of any or all of the Leased Properties or any portion thereof, (c) the failure of Landlord to relet any or all of the Leased Properties or any portion thereof, (d) the reletting of any or all of the Leased Properties or any portion thereof, (e) the failure of Landlord to collect or receive any rentals due upon any such reletting, nor (f) the election by Landlord not to terminate the Lease but rather to seek all damages provided at law or in equity, shall relieve Tenant of any of its liabilities or obligations hereunder, all of which shall survive any such termination, repossession or reletting. In the event of any such termination of this Lease (or any termination of this Lease as to less than all of the Leased Properties in the event of a Limited Termination Election or the election by Landlord not to terminate this Lease as to such Leased Properties, but rather to pursue its damages at law or in equity), without limitation of Section 17.6 and Section 19 below, Tenant shall forthwith pay to Landlord, at Landlord's option, as liquidated damages with respect to Rent for the Premises (or the Terminated Lease Properties in the event of any Limited Termination Election), either: (A) the sum of: (i) the unpaid Rent that had been earned at the time of termination (or the unpaid Rent as to the Terminated Lease Properties in the event of a Limited Termination Election), which Rent shall bear interest at the Overdue Rate from the date of such termination; and (ii) the then net present value (computed using a discount rate equal to the Prime Rate) of the amount of unpaid Rent (or the unpaid Rent as to the Terminated Lease Properties in the event of a Limited Termination Election) for the balance of the Term not previously collected pursuant to clause (B) below following the date of termination (excluding, however, any period following termination on account of which Landlord previously collected Rent pursuant to clause (B) below) without any obligation or deemed obligation on the part of Landlord to mitigate damages, or (B) each installment of Rent hereof and other sums payable hereunder (or such Rent and other sums as to the Terminated Lease Properties in the event of a Limited Termination Election) as the same becomes due and payable, to the extent that such Rent and other sums exceed the rent and other sums actually collected by Landlord for the corresponding period pursuant to any reletting (without any obligation or deemed obligation on the part of Landlord to mitigate damages) of the Premises (or the Terminated Properties in the event of a Limited Termination Election). Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, in the event that Landlord elects damages pursuant to clause (A) or clause (B) above, Landlord may subsequently elect to 61
collect damages pursuant to the other of clause (A) and clause (B) above. In case of any Event of Default, Landlord may, with or without terminating this Lease, (x) relet any or all of the Premises or any part or parts thereof, either in the name of Landlord or otherwise, for a term or terms that may, at Landlord's option, be equal to, less than or exceed the period that would otherwise have constituted the balance of the Term and may grant concessions or free rent to the extent that Landlord considers advisable or necessary to relet the same, and (y) make such reasonable alterations, repairs and decorations in the applicable Leased Property(ies) or any portion thereof as Landlord, in its reasonable judgment, considers advisable or necessary for the purpose of reletting the applicable Leased Property(ies); and such reletting and the making of such alterations, repairs and decorations shall not operate or be construed to release Tenant from liability hereunder as aforesaid. Landlord shall in no event be liable in any way whatsoever for failure to relet any Leased Property, or, in the event that any Leased Property is relet, for failure to collect the rent under such reletting. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Tenant hereby expressly waives any and all rights of redemption granted under any present or future laws in the event of Tenant's being evicted or dispossessed, or in the event of Landlord's obtaining possession of any Leased Property, by reason of the violation by Tenant of any of the covenants and conditions of this Lease or any other Event of Default. 17.6 Waiver. If this Lease is terminated pursuant to this Section 17, whether in whole or, in the case of any Limited Termination Election, in part, Tenant waives, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, (a) any right of redemption, re-entry or repossession, (b) any right to a trial by jury in the event of proceedings to enforce the remedies set forth in this Section 17, and (c) the benefit of any moratorium laws or any laws now or hereafter in force exempting property from liability for rent or for debt. 17.7 Application of Funds. Any payments received by Landlord under any of the provisions of this Lease during the existence or continuance of any Event of Default (if and such payment is made to Landlord rather than Tenant due to the existence of an Event of Default) shall be applied to Tenant's obligations in the order that Landlord may determine. 17.8 Nature of Remedies. To the extent permitted by law, the rights and remedies of Landlord under this Lease, at law and in equity shall be cumulative and may be exercised concurrently or successively, on one or more occasions, as Landlord deems appropriate in its sole discretion, as often as occasion therefor arises. To the extent permitted by law, each such right and remedy shall be in addition to all other such rights and remedies, and the exercise by Landlord of any one or more of such rights and remedies shall not preclude the simultaneous or subsequent exercise of any or all other such rights and remedies. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, liquidated damages in respect of Rent provided for in clauses (A) and (B) of Section 17.5 hereof, and in Section 19 hereof, shall be payable by Tenant in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other damages suffered by Landlord in connection with any default or Event of Default by Tenant (including, without limitation, Litigation Costs and costs of reletting). 17.9 Deletion of Properties. In the event that this Lease is terminated as to one or more Deleted Properties (but not all of the Premises) pursuant to Section 17.2 or as to one or more Leased Properties (but not all of the Premises) in connection with a Casualty or Condemnation, the provisions of this Section 17.9 shall be applicable. Without necessity of any 62
further action of the parties, this Lease shall terminate as to the Deleted Property(ies), and the Deleted Property(ies) shall be separated and removed herefrom, at such time (such date, the "Property Removal Date") as Landlord delivers written notice to Tenant (or Tenant delivers written notice to Landlord in certain limited instances herein expressly set forth) exercising its termination rights pursuant to Section 15, Section 16 or Section 17.2 (any of the foregoing, a "Deletion Notice"). As of the applicable Property Removal Date, this Lease shall be automatically and ipso facto amended to: (i) delete and eliminate the Deleted Property(ies) herefrom; (ii) exclude the applicable Deleted Properties from the definition of Premises; (iii) reduce the Fixed Rent payable hereunder by an amount equal to the product of: (x) the aggregate Tenant's Proportionate Share(s) applicable to all of the Deleted Properties; and (y) the aggregate Fixed Rent in effect under this Lease as of the Property Removal Date; (iv) Exhibit C attached hereto and made a part hereof and the Base Year Operating Income shall be amended and reduced, respectively, to delete and eliminate the Deleted Property(ies) therefrom and reduce the Base Year Operating Income(s) applicable to the remaining Leased Property(ies) by the amount of the Allocated Base Year Operating Income applicable to the Deleted Properties for the purposes of determining whether the Rent Escalation Condition has been satisfied and otherwise; and (v) Schedule 2 attached hereto and made a part hereof shall be revised to remove the allocation of rents and the Tenant's Proportionate Share(s) for all of the Deleted Property(ies), and the Tenant's Proportionate Shares applicable to the remaining Facilities set forth on Schedule 2 attached hereto shall be recalculated so that each such Tenant shall have a Tenant's Proportionate Share equal to the percentage that the Fixed Rent for the Facility(ies) operated by such Tenant comprises of the aggregate Fixed Rent for all Facilities remaining under this Lease such that the aggregate of all of the remaining Tenant's Proportionate Shares equals one hundred percent (100%). With respect to any Terminated Lease Property(ies), the terms of items (iii) and (v) above shall be without limitation upon the liability of Tenant (joint and several) for the rental amounts allocated to the Terminated Lease Property(ies), and, (a) in case of any termination of this Lease as a result of any Event of Default, any damages resulting from the Event of Default that resulted in the deletion of such Terminated Lease Property(ies) herefrom; and (b) in case of any termination of this Lease pursuant to Section 15 or Section 16 hereof, any obligations owed by Tenant to Landlord on account of such termination under Section 15 or Section 16 hereof. Tenant shall execute and enter into an amendment to this Lease reflecting the elimination of any Deleted Property(ies) herefrom promptly (and in any event within ten (10) Business Days after) after Landlord submits such amendment to Tenant for execution. 18. Landlord's Right to Cure Tenant's Default. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, Landlord, without waiving or releasing any obligation of Tenant or the Event of Default, may (but shall be under no obligation to) at any time thereafter make such payments or perform such acts for the account and at the expense of Tenant, and may, to the extent permitted by law, enter upon any or each Leased Property or any portion thereof for the purpose of curing such Event of Default and take all such action thereon as, in Landlord's opinion, may be necessary or appropriate in connection with curing such Event of Default. No such entry shall be deemed an eviction of Tenant. All sums so paid or advanced by Landlord and all costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) so incurred, together with interest thereon (to the maximum extent permitted by law) as Additional Rent hereunder at the Overdue Rate from the date on which such sums or expenses are paid or incurred by Landlord, shall be paid by Tenant to Landlord on demand. The 63
obligations of Tenant and rights of Landlord contained in this Section 18 and in Section 17 above shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. 19. Holding Over. If Tenant shall, for any reason, remain in possession of any Leased Property after the expiration or earlier termination of the Term as to such Leased Property, such possession shall, at the option of Landlord, in its sole discretion as to each such Leased Property, be as a month-to-month tenant during which time Tenant shall pay as rental each month (which rental constitutes liquidated damages with respect to Rent, and not a penalty for the period to which it relates), two (2) times the aggregate of the Fixed Rent payable by Tenant pursuant to the provisions of this Lease, in each case, with respect to the Leased Property(ies) in question (determined on the basis of the aggregate Tenant's Proportionate Share of each applicable Tenant for the affected Leased Properties without adjustment or removal of the Tenant's Proportionate Share for such Leased Property pursuant to Section 17.9 hereof). During such period of month-to-month tenancy, Tenant shall be obligated to perform and observe all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease with respect to the Leased Property(ies) in question (including, but not limited to, its obligation to pay Additional Rent), but shall have no rights hereunder other than the right, to the extent given by law to month-to-month tenancies, to continue its occupancy and use of the applicable Leased Property(ies). Landlord shall have the right to terminate Tenant's month-to-month tenancy at any time after giving Tenant ten (10) days' prior written notice, and at any time thereafter, Landlord may re-enter and take possession of the Premises. Nothing contained herein shall constitute the consent, express or implied, of Landlord to the holding over of Tenant after the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. The terms of this Section 19 shall be without limitation upon any other right Landlord may have hereunder, at law or in equity, on account of any holdover with respect to the applicable Leased Property(ies). The obligations of Tenant and the rights of Landlord contained in this Section 19 shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. 20. Subordination. 20.1 Subordination. This Lease and all rights of Tenant hereunder are subject and subordinate to all Facility Mortgages that may now or hereafter affect Landlord's interest in any Leased Property, and to all renewals, modifications, consolidations, replacements and extensions of all Facility Mortgages; provided, however, that such subordination is conditioned upon the delivery by Landlord and the applicable Facility Mortgagee of a normal and customary Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreement. Tenant acknowledges that the form of Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit F (the "Form SNDA") is a commercially reasonable and customary subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreement. Tenant shall execute and enter into the Form SNDA within five (5) Business Days after the submission thereof by Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee to Tenant. In confirmation of the subordination of this Lease, Tenant also agrees to execute and deliver promptly (and in any event within ten (10) Business Days) any other commercially reasonable and customary agreement (in recordable form, if requested) that Landlord or any Facility Mortgagee may request to evidence such subordination. 20.2 Attornment. If the interests of Landlord under this Lease are transferred by reason of, or assigned in lieu of, foreclosure or other proceedings for enforcement of a Facility Mortgage, then Tenant shall, at the option of such purchaser or assignee, as the case may 64
be, (x) attorn to such party and perform for its benefit all the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease on Tenant's part to be performed with the same force and effect as if such party were the landlord originally named in this Lease, or (y) enter into a New Lease with such party, as landlord, pursuant to Section 41 hereof for the remaining Term and otherwise on the same terms and conditions of this Lease, except that such successor landlord shall not be (i) liable for any previous act, omission, breach, default or negligence of Landlord under this Lease; (ii) subject to any counterclaim, defense or offset that theretofore shall have accrued to Tenant against Landlord; (iii) bound by any previous modification or amendment of this Lease or by any previous prepayment of more than one month's rent, unless such modification, amendment or prepayment shall have been approved in writing by the Facility Mortgagee through or by reason of which, such successor landlord shall have succeeded to the rights of Landlord under this Lease or, in case of any such prepayment, such prepayment of rent has actually been delivered to such successor landlord; or (iv) liable for any security deposited pursuant to this Lease unless such security has actually been delivered to such successor landlord. Nothing contained in this Section 20.2 shall be construed to impair any right otherwise exercisable by any such owner, holder or lessee. 20.3 Mortgagee Cure Rights. If any act or omission by Landlord would give Tenant the right, immediately or after lapse of time, to cancel or terminate this Lease or to claim a partial or total eviction, or abatement of Rent, setoff or counterclaim not otherwise expressly permitted by the terms of this Lease, or to declare a default hereunder, Tenant will not exercise any such right until (i) it has given written notice of such act or omission to each Facility Mortgagee whose name and address shall have previously been furnished to Tenant, (ii) Landlord shall have failed to cure the same after the delivery of such notice as may be herein required and within the time limits set forth in this Lease, and (iii) following the giving of such notice to each Facility Mortgagee, no Facility Mortgagee shall have remedied such act or omission (x) in the case of an act or omission that is capable of being remedied without possession of the applicable Leased Property, within the cure period available to Landlord under this Lease plus thirty (30) days; and (y) in the case of any act or omission that is incapable of being remedied without possession of the applicable Leased Property, within thirty (30) days following the date on which possession is obtained (either by such Facility Mortgagee or by a receiver in an action commenced by such Facility Mortgagee). 20.4 Modifications. Tenant shall execute any modification of this Lease reasonably requested by any Facility Mortgagee or prospective Facility Mortgagee to cause the terms of this Lease to conform with customary and reasonable mortgage financing requirements, provided that such modifications (i) do not materially adversely increase the obligations of Tenant hereunder or materially diminish Tenant's rights under this Lease, (ii) do not increase Rent payable hereunder, and (iii) are requested by any such Facility Mortgagee or prospective Facility Mortgagee only at the time of its initial loan advance or any subsequent extension of the maturity date of its loan or material modification of the terms of its loan. 21. Property Collateral. 21.1 Landlord's Security Interest. The parties intend that, if an Event of Default occurs and is continuing under this Lease, Landlord will control Tenant's Personal Property so that Landlord or its designee or nominee can operate, sell or re-let each Facility for 65
its Primary Intended Use. Accordingly, to implement such intention, and for the purpose of securing the payment and performance obligations of Tenant hereunder, Landlord and Tenant agree as follows: 21.1.1 Property Collateral. Tenant, as debtor, hereby grants to Landlord, as secured party, a security interest and an express contractual lien upon all of Tenant's right, title and interest in and to Tenant's Personal Property and any and all products, rents, proceeds and profits thereof in which Tenant now owns or hereafter acquires an interest or right, including, but not limited to, any leased Tenant's Personal Property (collectively, the "Property Collateral"). This Lease constitutes a security agreement pursuant to and in accordance with the UCC covering all such Tenant's Personal Property. The security interest granted to Landlord in this Section 21.1 with respect to Tenant's Personal Property may be subordinated (in Landlord's sole discretion) to any security interest granted in connection with the financing or leasing (e.g., title retention agreements) from a Lending Institution of all or any portion of the Tenant's Personal Property, provided, however, that in connection with such financing and/or leasing, Landlord shall furnish Tenant's financiers' with an intercreditor agreement in form and substance acceptable to Landlord in its sole discretion. This security agreement and the security interest created herein shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. Tenant hereby authorizes Landlord to file such financing statements, continuation statements and other documents as may be necessary or desirable to perfect or continue the perfection of Landlord's security interest in the Property Collateral pursuant to the UCC. In addition, if required by Landlord at any time during the Term, Tenant shall execute and deliver to Landlord, in form reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, additional security agreements, financing statements, fixture filings and such other documents as Landlord may reasonably require to perfect or continue the perfection of Landlord's security interest in the Property Collateral. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, Landlord shall be entitled to exercise any and all rights or remedies available to a secured party under the UCC, or available to a landlord under the laws of the State(s) where the applicable Leased Property(ies) is (are) located, with respect to Tenant's Personal Property, including the right to sell the same at public or private sale. 21.1.2 Name Change. Tenant shall give Landlord at least thirty (30) days' prior written notice of any change in any Tenant's name, identity, jurisdiction of organization or corporate structure. With respect to any such change, Tenant will promptly execute and deliver such instruments, documents and notices and take such actions, as Landlord deems necessary or desirable to create, perfect and protect the security interests of Landlord in the Property Collateral. 21.2 Accounts Receivable Financing. Tenant may obtain so-called "Accounts Receivable" financing with respect to any Facility (or its operations therein) ("AR Financing") provided (i) the terms and conditions of this Section 21 have been satisfied; (ii) Tenant obtains Landlord's consent to the terms thereof; and (ii) no Event of Default exists hereunder. Landlord shall not unreasonably withhold its consent to any AR Financing provided that the amount of such AR Financing is reasonable given the financial condition of Tenant and the applicable Leased Properties and Landlord is presented with an intercreditor agreement on terms acceptable to it in its reasonable discretion. 66
22. Risk of Loss. During the Term, the risk of loss or of decrease in the enjoyment and beneficial use of each Leased Property in consequence of the damage or destruction thereof by fire, the elements, act of terrorism, casualties, thefts, riots, wars or otherwise, or in consequence of foreclosures, attachments, levies or executions (other than by Landlord and those claiming from, through or under Landlord) is assumed by Tenant, and Landlord shall in no event be answerable or accountable therefor nor shall any of the events mentioned in this Section entitle Tenant to any abatement of Rent. 23. Indemnification. Notwithstanding the existence of any insurance provided for herein, and without regard to the policy limits of any such insurance, Tenant shall protect, indemnify, save harmless and defend Landlord and the Landlord Indemnified Parties from and against all Losses (including, without limitation, Litigation Costs), to the maximum extent permitted by law, imposed upon or incurred by, or asserted or alleged against, Landlord or any Landlord Indemnified Parties by reason of: (a) any accident, injury to, or death of, persons or loss of, or damage to, property occurring on or about any Leased Property (except to the extent caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Landlord); (b) any use, misuse, non-use, condition, maintenance or repair of any Leased Property by Tenant, any Tenant Parties or anyone claiming under Tenant or any Tenant Parties; (c) any Impositions; (d) any failure on the part of Tenant, any Tenant Parties or anyone claiming under Tenant or any Tenant Parties to perform or comply with any of the terms of this Lease; (e) claims for work or labor performed or materials supplied to Tenant or any Tenant Parties; (f) any material breach by Tenant of any of its representations and warranties hereunder; (g) any breach or default under any Authorization by any Tenant (or any Facility) or any revocation of any Authorizations (including, but not limited to, any Facility Provider Agreement); (h) any negligence or misconduct on the part of Tenant or any Tenant Parties; (i) the non-performance of any of the terms and provisions of any and all existing and future subleases of any Leased Property to be performed by the subtenant thereunder; and/or (j) the claims of any broker or finder made in connection with this Lease except to the extent claiming under the written agreements of Landlord. Any amounts that become payable by Tenant under this Section 23 shall be paid within ten (10) Business Days after demand by Landlord, and if not timely paid, shall bear interest at the Overdue Rate from the date of such demand to the date of payment. Tenant, at its expense, shall contest, resist and defend any such claim, action or proceeding asserted or instituted against Landlord or any Landlord Indemnified Parties with counsel acceptable to Landlord in its reasonable discretion and shall not, under any circumstances, compromise or otherwise dispose of any suit, action or proceeding without obtaining Landlord's written consent. Tenant shall have the right to control the defense or settlement of any claim provided that (A) Tenant shall first confirm in writing to Landlord that such claim is within the scope of this indemnity and that Tenant shall pay any and all amounts required to be paid in respect of such claim; and (B) any compromise or settlement shall require the prior written approval of Landlord, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld provided Landlord (or the applicable Landlord Indemnified Parties) are irrevocably released from all liabilities in connection with such claim as part of such settlement or compromise. Landlord shall have the right to approve counsel engaged to defend such claim and, at its election and sole cost and expense, shall have the right, but not the obligation, to participate in the defense of any claim. If Tenant does not act promptly and completely to satisfy its indemnification obligations hereunder, Landlord may resist and defend any such claims or causes of action against Landlord or any Landlord Indemnified Party at Tenant's sole cost. The terms of this Section 23 shall survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease. 67
24. Assignment; Sublease. 24.1 Prohibition. Tenant shall not, without Landlord's prior written consent, which may be withheld in Landlord's sole discretion, either directly or indirectly, or through one or more step transactions or tiered transactions, voluntarily or by operation of law, (a) assign, convey, sell, pledge, mortgage, hypothecate or otherwise encumber, transfer or dispose of all or any part of this Lease or any Tenant's leasehold estate hereunder, (b) sublease all or any part of any Leased Property; (c) engage the services of any Person for the management or operation of all or any part of any Leased Property; (d) convey, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, hypothecate, encumber or otherwise dispose of any stock or partnership, membership or other interests (whether equity or otherwise) in any Tenant (which shall include any conveyance, sale, assignment, transfer, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance or disposition of any stock or partnership, membership or other interests (whether equity or otherwise) in any controlling Person(s)), if such conveyance, sale, assignment, transfer or disposition results, directly or indirectly, in a change in control of such Tenant (or of such controlling Person(s)); (e) dissolve, merge or consolidate any Tenant (which shall include any dissolution, merger or consolidation of any controlling Person(s)) with any other Person, if such dissolution, merger or consolidation, directly or indirectly, results in a change in control of such Tenant (or in such controlling Person(s)); (f) sell, convey, assign, or otherwise transfer all or substantially all of the assets of any Tenant (which shall include any sale, conveyance, assignment, or other transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of any controlling Person(s)); (g) sell, convey, assign, or otherwise transfer any of the assets of any Tenant if the consolidated net worth of such Tenant immediately following such transaction is not at least equal to the greater of (1) the consolidated net worth of such Tenant immediately prior to such transaction and (2) the consolidated net worth of such Tenant; or (h) enter into or permit to be entered into any agreement or arrangement to do any of the foregoing or to grant any option or other right to any Person to do any of the foregoing (each of the aforesaid acts referred to in clauses (a) through (h) being referred to herein as a "Transfer"). Without limitation of the foregoing, a Transfer shall include a Change of Control of Trans. 24.2 Change of Control of Trans. Without limitation of the terms of the Section 24.1, a Change of Control of Trans shall be a Transfer within the meaning of Section 24.1 of this Lease requiring the prior written consent of Landlord, which consent may be withheld in Landlord's sole discretion. By way of illustration only, and without limitation of Landlord's rights hereunder, for purposes of determining whether to consent (or deny its consent) to a Change of Control of Trans or any Replacement Operator, Landlord may consider any or all of the following criteria and factors ("Transfer Criteria"): (i) the operating history of the acquiring Person or the Replacement Operator (or their respective principals and Affiliates) with respect to healthcare facilities comparable to the Facility as well as its (and their) general expertise and experience as an operator of healthcare facilities; (ii) the number of licensed beds operated by the acquiring Person or the Replacement Operator (or their respective Affiliates), as the case may be, in the State of Maryland and the State of Ohio; (iii) the general reputation and character of the acquiring Person or the Replacement Operator (or their respective principals and Affiliates); (iv) the ability or inability of the acquiring Person or the Replacement Operator, as the case may be, to accurately provide and make the representations and warranties contained in Section 10.8 of this Lease as to the acquiring Person or the Replacement Operator, as the case may be, as well as their respective Affiliates and principals; and (v) the solvency and 68
creditworthiness of the acquiring Person or Replacement Operator, as the case may be. If Landlord does not consent, in writing, to a Change of Control of Trans, Tenant shall have the right, but not the obligation, to attempt for a period of sixty (60) days after its receipt of such determination from Landlord (the "Identification Period") to locate, identify and submit to Landlord a replacement operator (or replacement operators) (a "Replacement Operator") for all (but not less than all) of the Facilities to assume and accept Tenant's obligations hereunder pursuant to an assignment of this Lease by Tenant to such Replacement Operator. On or prior to the expiration of the Identification Period, Tenant may submit to Landlord for its review and consideration a list prospective Replacement Operators to accept an assignment of the Lease and operate the Facilities on behalf of Tenant. Any assignment of this Lease to a Replacement Operator shall be a Transfer within the meaning of Section 24.1 of this Lease, which Transfer shall require Landlord's prior written consent. Landlord may consent, or deny its consent, to an assignment of this Lease to a Replacement Operator in its sole discretion, and, no such assignment shall be effective absent such consent. Landlord may (but shall not be obligated to) consider the Transfer Criteria for purposes of evaluating any such proposed assignment to a Replacement Operator. Landlord shall notify Tenant as to whether Landlord has elected to approve or disapprove such Transfer within fifteen (15) Business Days after receipt of notice of the prospective Replacement Operators and the failure by Landlord to provide such notice shall be deemed a denial of its consent to such Transfer. If Landlord approves any such Transfer to a Replacement Operator, Landlord shall also approve the Change of Control of Trans at such time as: (i) the conditions to the approval of Landlord to such Change of Control in Section 2.4.2(d) of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement and Section 2.4.2.2(b) or Section 8.2(b) of the Mortgage Loan Agreement have been satisfied; and (ii) Tenant and Replacement Operator have executed assignment instruments evidencing such Transfer acceptable to Landlord. 24.3 Permitted Assignments and Subleases. Any purported Transfer made without the prior written consent of Landlord shall be absolutely null and void. If Landlord consents to any Transfer, such Transfer shall not be effective and valid unless and until the applicable transferee executes and delivers to Landlord any and all documentation reasonably required by Landlord. Any consent by Landlord to a particular Transfer shall not constitute consent or approval of any subsequent Transfer, and Landlord's written approval shall be required in all such instances. No consent by Landlord to any Transfer shall be deemed to release any Tenant from its obligations hereunder and such Tenant shall remain fully liable for payment and performance of all obligations under this Lease. 24.4 Rights of Landlord. If this Lease is assigned, or if the Premises (or any part thereof) are sublet or used or occupied by anyone other than Tenant, whether or not in violation of this Lease, Landlord may (without prejudice to, or waiver of its rights), collect rent from the assignee, subtenant or occupant. Landlord may apply the net amount collected to the Rent herein required to be paid by Tenant, but no such assignment, subletting, occupancy or collection shall be deemed a waiver of any of the provisions of this Section 24. With respect to the allocable portion of the Premises sublet, in the event that the total rent and any other considerations received under any sublease by Tenant is greater than the total Fixed Rent required to be paid, from time to time, under this Lease, Tenant shall pay to Landlord sixty-five percent (65%) of such excess received from any subtenant and such amount shall be deemed a component of the Additional Rent. 69
25. Financial Statements and Reporting. 25.1 Maintenance of Books and Records. Tenant shall keep and maintain, or cause to be kept and maintained, proper and accurate books and records, in accordance with GAAP in all material respects, reflecting the financial affairs of each Tenant. Landlord shall have the right from time to time during normal business hours upon reasonable notice to the applicable Tenant to examine such books and records at the office of such Tenant or other Person maintaining such books and records and to make such copies or extracts thereof as Landlord shall request. 25.2 Annual Financial Statements. As soon as available, and in any event within one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord, in hard copy and electronic format, and presented on a consolidated and consolidating as well as on a property-by-property basis, financial statements prepared for such Fiscal Year with respect to Tenant, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such Fiscal Year, together with related statements of income and members' or partners' capital for such Fiscal Year, audited by a "Big Four" accounting firm or a nationally recognized, independent certified public accounting firm reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, whose opinion shall be to the effect that such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis, and shall not be qualified as to the scope of the audit or as to the status of any Tenant as a going concern. Together with Tenant's annual financial statements, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord an Officer's Certificate certifying as of the date thereof whether, to the best of Tenant's knowledge, there exists an event or circumstance that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default, and if such Event of Default or latent Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same. Together with Tenant's annual financial statements, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord, in hard copy and electronic format: (i) a statement of cash flows for each Leased Property; and (ii) such other information as Landlord shall reasonably request. 25.3 Quarterly Financial Information. As soon as available, and in any event within forty-five (45) days after the end of each fiscal quarter (based on a Fiscal Year), Tenant shall furnish to Landlord, in hard copy and electronic format, and presented on a consolidated and consolidating as well as a property-by-property basis, quarterly and year-to-date unaudited financial statements prepared for such fiscal quarter with respect to Tenant, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such fiscal quarter, together with related statements of income, members' or partners' capital and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Fiscal Year ending with such fiscal quarter, which statements shall be accompanied by (i) an Officer's Certificate certifying that the same are true and correct and were prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis, subject to changes resulting from audit and normal year-end audit adjustments and (ii) an Officer's Certificate certifying as of the date thereof whether, to the best of Tenant's knowledge, there exists an event or circumstance that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default and if such Event of Default or 70
latent Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same. Each such quarterly statement shall show the separate operations of each Leased Property, including, without limitation, (1) a breakdown of Patient Revenues and other revenues itemized by payor type and a reasonably detailed breakdown of operating expenses and (2) patient census information by payor type (collectively, "Census Information"). Each such quarterly report shall be accompanied by the following, in hard copy and electronic format: (i) a statement in reasonable detail showing the calculation of Net Operating Income for each Facility for the trailing four fiscal quarters, in each case, ending at the end of such fiscal quarter; (ii) a then current occupancy report for each Facility; and (iii) such other information as Landlord shall reasonably request. 25.4 Certification of Compliance with Financial Covenants. Simultaneously with the delivery of the quarterly and annual financial statements contemplated by Sections 25.2 and 25.3, and as part of the applicable Officer's Certificate, Tenant shall certify to and for the benefit of Landlord that (i) Tenant (or each Tenant, as applicable) is in compliance with the covenants contained in Section 8.2.6 for the applicable period, or a list of such covenants with which such Tenant is not in compliance for the applicable period and (ii) a clear, reasonably detailed explanation of the calculations of Coverage Ratio, Net Worth, Portfolio Coverage Ratio, debt to equity ratio and the minimum occupancy rates for the relevant period, as applicable. 25.5 Reports of Material Adverse Events. As soon as available, and in any event within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar month, Tenant shall furnish a report describing in reasonable detail the occurrence during such calendar month of any event that is reasonably likely to result in a material adverse effect on the ability of Tenant to perform any material provision of this Lease, or the value, use or enjoyment of any of the Leased Properties or the operation thereof. Tenant shall, simultaneously with delivering such report, furnish, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated and consolidating as well as a property-by-property basis, monthly and year-to-date unaudited financial statements prepared for the applicable month with respect to Tenant, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such month, together with related statements of income, members' or partners' capital and cash flows for such month and for the portion of the Fiscal Year ending with such month, which statements shall be accompanied by (i) an Officer's Certificate certifying that the same are true and correct and were prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis, subject to changes resulting from audit and normal year-end audit adjustments and (ii) an Officer's Certificate certifying as to any material variances from the approved Annual Budget on a line-item basis. Each monthly report shall show the separate operations of each Leased Property, including, without limitation, the Census Information for such Leased Property. Each such monthly report shall be accompanied by the following in hard copy and electronic format: (i) a statement setting forth in reasonable detail the calculation of Net Operating Income for each Facility for the trailing twelve (12) months, in each case, ending at the end of that month; 71
(ii) then current occupancy report for each Facility; and (iii) such other information as Landlord shall reasonably request. 25.6 Report of Compliance with Authorizations. As soon as available, and in any event within ninety (90) days after the end of each calendar year, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord true and complete copies of a report regarding the compliance of each Facility with all Authorizations for such Facility. 25.7 Weekly and Monthly Cash Flow and Census Reports. Upon Landlord's written request, as soon as available, and in any event within five (5) days after preparation thereof, each Tenant shall furnish to Landlord the weekly and monthly consolidated cash flow reports of each Tenant and consolidated patient census reports for each Tenant. 25.8 Quarterly Deficiency Reports. As soon as available, and in any event no later than thirty (30) days after the end of each fiscal quarter, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord (i) the quarterly consolidated survey deficiency summary report, indicating for each Facility, whether any survey, citation or report alleging any deficiency with respect to such Facility has been issued during the prior month and, if so, setting forth the identity of the Governmental Authority that issued such survey, citation or report, a description of the alleged deficiency and the timetable or deadline for remedying same and the applicable Tenant's plan for curing such deficiency and (ii) to the extent existing, all actuarial reports relating to all professional liability claims. Tenant shall also deliver to Landlord promptly after request therefor by Landlord any other Facility specific survey reports reasonably requested by Landlord. 25.9 Reduction in Licensed Beds. As soon as available, and in any event within forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord copies of Officer's Certificates, setting forth whether any Event(s) of Default has/have occurred and is/are continuing with respect to the reduction of the number of licensed beds at any Facility or the revocation of certification for reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid with respect to any Facility. 25.10 Notices from Governmental Authorities. As soon as available, and in any event within ten (10) days of receipt, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord any and all notices (regardless of form) from any Governmental Authority (i) that any Authorization for any Facility or the Medicare certification or Medicaid certification of any Facility is the subject of any enforcement action, revocation or suspension, or is subject to assessment for civil monetary penalties or is the subject of any overpayment claim or recoupment claim or (ii) that action is pending or being considered to revoke or suspend any Authorization or to institute enforcement actions of any kind. 25.11 Medicare and Medicaid Filings. Upon the request of Landlord, within five (5) days of the earlier of (i) the date of the required filing of cost reports for any Facility with the Medicaid agency or (ii) the date of actual filing of such cost report for any Facility with such agency, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord a complete and accurate copy of the annual Medicaid cost report for each Facility, which will be prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by an experienced cost report preparer acceptable to Landlord in its sole discretion, 72
and promptly furnish to Landlord any amendments filed with respect to such reports and all responses, audit reports or inquiries with respect to such reports. 25.12 Medicare and Medicaid Deficiency Reports. As soon as available, and in any event within two (2) days of receipt, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a copy of any Medicare, Medicaid or other Governmental Authority survey or report and any statement of deficiencies, and within the time period required by the particular agency for furnishing a plan of correction, shall also furnish or cause to be furnished to Landlord, a copy of the plan of correction generated from such survey or report for a Facility, and correct or cause to be corrected any deficiency, the curing of which is a condition of continued licensure or for full participation in Medicare or Medicaid for existing patients or for new patients to be admitted with Medicare or Medicaid coverage, by the date required for cure by such agency (plus any extensions of time granted by such agency). 25.13 Annual Budgets. Tenant has previously delivered to Landlord the Annual Budget for each Leased Property for the 2002 Fiscal Year. At least thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of each subsequent Fiscal Year during the Term, Tenant shall deliver to Landlord for approval an Annual Budget presented on a consolidated and consolidating as well as a property-by-property basis for the ensuing Fiscal Year and, promptly after preparation thereof, any subsequent revisions to the Annual Budget. 25.14 Financial Statements of Guarantor. As soon as available, and in any event within one hundred (100) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, Tenant shall cause Guarantor to furnish to Landlord, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated and consolidating as well as an individual entity basis, financial statements prepared for such year with respect to Guarantor, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such year, together with related statements of income and members' or partners' capital for such Fiscal Year, audited by a "Big Four" accounting firm or a nationally recognized, independent certified public accounting firm reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, whose opinion shall be to the effect that such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP, applied on a consistent basis, and shall not be qualified as to the scope of the audit or as to the status of any Guarantor as a going concern. Together with Guarantor's annual financial statements, Tenant shall cause Guarantor to furnish to Landlord an Officer's Certificate certifying as of the date thereof whether, to the best of Tenant's knowledge, there exists an event or circumstance that constitutes an Event of Default or that, with the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default by any Guarantor under the Lease Guaranty, and if such Event of Default or latent Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same. 25.15 Estoppel Certification. Together with every Officer's Certificate required to be provided hereunder, or otherwise upon request by Landlord in connection with a proposed sale or refinancing of any Leased Property(ies) by Landlord or otherwise (in any such case within five (5) Business Days), Tenant shall provide an "Estoppel Certificate" certifying to Landlord and Landlord's designees (which certificate may be relied upon by Landlord and any prospective purchaser or prospective Facility Mortgagee of any Leased Property or any other designee) the following information: 73
(i) this Lease is unmodified and is in full force and effect (or that this Lease is in full force and effect as modified and setting forth the modifications); (ii) the dates to which Rent has been paid, each Tenant's Proportionate Share and the amount of Rent by Facility; (iii) all Facilities are in good standing with respect to all necessary federal, state and local licenses, permits and other Authorizations (including, but not limited to, all of the Facility Provider Agreements); (iv) each Facility that participates in the Medicare program is in compliance with the terms of its Facility Provider Agreement relative to Medicare and in good standing with the Medicare program; (v) each Facility that participates in the Medicaid program is in compliance with the terms of its Facility Provider Agreement relative to Medicaid and in good standing with the Medicaid program; (vi) each Facility that participates in any Third Party Payor Program is in compliance with the terms of such program and is in good standing thereunder; (vii) the current number of licensed beds at each Facility; (viii) Tenant is not in default in the performance of its obligations under this Lease or, if a default or an Event of Default exists, specifying the same in reasonable detail; (ix) Landlord is not in default pursuant to the terms of this Lease; (x) the representations and warranties of Tenant contained in Section 10 of the Lease are true and correct in all material respects; (xi) such other information, certifications and assurances as Landlord (or any prospective purchaser or prospective Facility Mortgagee) shall reasonably require or request as part of an Estoppel Certificate or otherwise; (xii) no Facility has a TAG of "G" or higher or is the subject of any admissions hold; and (xiii) no Facility or Tenant is the subject of any litigation, investigation, suit or proceeding for which adequate insurance coverage is not available under existing insurance policies maintained by Tenant. Any Estoppel Certificate shall, at Landlord's request, be delivered together with complete and accurate copies (originals of which shall be made available for inspection upon request by Landlord) of all licenses, permits and other Authorizations necessary to operate the Facilities in accordance with all applicable laws. 74
25.16 SEC Reports. As soon as reasonably available, copies of any Forms 10K, 10Q and 8K, and any other annual, quarterly, monthly or other reports, copies of all registration statements and any other public information that any Tenant, Guarantor or Affiliate of Tenant or Guarantor files with the SEC or any other Governmental Authority. Promptly upon the furnishing thereof to the shareholders of any Tenant, Guarantor or Affiliate of Tenant or Guarantor, copies of all statements, reports, notices and proxy statements so furnished. 25.17 Supplemental Information. Such supplements to the foregoing documents and such other information and reports (including, without limitation, non-financial information), as any Landlord or Facility Mortgagee may reasonably request, provided such supplements, and such information and reports, are consistent with the types of supplements, reports and information generally utilized by such institutions within the financing industry. 25.18 Weekly and Monthly Cash Flow and Census Information. On a weekly basis to the extent requested by Landlord, (a) a weekly cash flow report of each Tenant and (b) a weekly patient census report (reported separately for hospitals and nursing centers and broken down by payor source) for each Tenant, in form reasonably acceptable to Landlord. On a monthly basis during the Term, (i) a monthly cash flow report for each Tenant; (ii) a monthly patient census report for each Tenant; (iii) a monthly survey deficiency summary report in form reasonably acceptable to Landlord and listing each of the Facility with an indication of whether any survey, citation or report alleging a deficiency in relation to such Facility has been issued with respect thereto during the period covered by such report and, if so, setting forth the identity of the agency or Governmental Authority that issued such citation or report, a description of the alleged deficiency, the proposed plan for remedying such deficiency and the timetable or deadline for curing the same; and (iv) a monthly summary of accounts receivable with respect to each Facility and all of the Facilities in form acceptable to Landlord. 25.19 Quarterly Meetings; Facility Level Meetings and Reviews. On a quarterly basis, Tenant shall permit, and upon request by Landlord, shall make appropriate arrangements for, Landlord and/or Landlord's Representatives to discuss the affairs, operations, finances and accounts of Tenant, Guarantor and their respective Affiliates with, and be advised as to the same by, senior officers of Tenant (and such of Tenant's independent accountants and other financial advisors as would be relevant to the topic(s) of the particular meeting), all as Landlord may deem appropriate for the purpose of verifying any report(s) delivered by Tenant to Landlord under this Lease or for otherwise ascertaining compliance with this Lease by Tenant or the business, operational or financial condition of Tenant, Guarantor and/or their respective Affiliates and/or any of their respective Facilities. Without limitation of the foregoing, from time to time promptly following receipt of written notice from Landlord to Tenant (and in any event within five (5) Business Days of such receipt), Tenant shall permit, and shall make appropriate arrangements for, Landlord and/or Landlord's Representatives to discuss the business, operational and financial condition of specific Facility(ies) designated by Landlord with, and be advised as to the same by, appropriate personnel of Tenant and its Affiliates having operational and accounting responsibilities for the Facility(ies) so specified by Landlord and to review, and make abstracts from and copies of, the books, accounts and records of Tenant and its Affiliates relative to any such Facility(ies), in each case provided, and on the condition, that any such discussions or reviews, abstracting or copying shall not materially interfere with Tenant's business operations relative to any affected Facility(ies). Unless otherwise agreed in writing by 75
Landlord and Tenant, all of the discussions, reviews, abstracting and copying referenced in this Section 25.19 shall occur during normal business hours. 25.20 Authorizations. Not later than thirty (30) days after the commencement of any Fiscal Year during the Term, Tenant shall submit accurate and complete copies of any and all Authorizations (together with any renewals or extensions thereof) certified by Tenant as accurate and complete in an Officer's Certificate. 25.21 Format. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Tenant shall submit the financial information, reports, operating budgets and other financial data contemplated by Section 25 to Landlord in paper and electronic form, in a format acceptable to Landlord in the exercise of its reasonable discretion. 26. Landlord's Right to Inspect. Tenant shall permit Landlord, Landlord's Representatives, any then current or prospective Facility Mortgagee or other lender to Landlord, any then current or prospective investment banker, mortgage broker or other professional engaged by Landlord, any prospective purchaser of any Leased Property or any investor in Landlord or any Affiliate of Landlord and/or, any prospective lessee, and its and their respective authorized representatives, to enter upon and conduct a physical inspection of any Leased Property during normal business hours and, except in an emergency, upon not less than three (3) Business Days' prior written notice, subject to any security, health, safety or confidentiality requirements of any Governmental Authority relating to the Premises, or imposed by law or applicable regulations or any insurance requirement, and provided that no such entry or inspection shall materially interfere with Tenant's business operations within the affected Leased Property(ies). Landlord shall use reasonable efforts not to interfere, or allow any person entering upon any Leased Property pursuant to the rights granted to Landlord under this Section 26 to interfere, with the conduct of Tenant's business operations at the applicable Leased Property in the exercise of Landlord's rights pursuant to this Section 26. Landlord shall, and does hereby indemnify, defend and hold Tenant and Tenant's agents, employees and officers harmless from and against any Losses actually suffered or incurred by Tenant or Tenant's agents, employees or officers as a result of any injury to, or death of, persons, or damage to property, resulting from any entry upon the Leased Properties by Landlord (or any Person entering thereon pursuant to the rights granted to Landlord under this Section 26) pursuant to this Section 26. Nothing contained in this Section 26 shall limit or impair Landlord's right to immediately enter upon and inspect the Premises, or any of Landlord's other rights or remedies, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default by Tenant. 27. No Waiver. No failure by Landlord or Tenant to insist upon the strict performance of any term hereof or to exercise any right, power or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof, and no acceptance of full or partial payment of Rent during the continuance of any such breach, shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any such term. To the extent permitted by law, no waiver of any breach shall affect or alter this Lease, which shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any other then existing or subsequent breach. 28. Single Lease. Tenant hereby acknowledges that the agreement between Landlord and Tenant to treat this as single lease in all respects, was and is of primary importance to Landlord, and Landlord would not have entered into this Lease without there being such an 76
agreement and such treatment of this Lease. All rights and obligations under this Lease relating to the Premises shall apply to each Leased Property and any default under this Lease pertaining to a single Leased Property or to the Premises or any portion thereof shall be an Event of Default pertaining to the Premises; provided, however, that in connection with any Event of Default, Landlord may elect to exercise its rights only as to one or more of the Leased Properties. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the parties hereto acknowledge that this Lease constitutes a single lease of the Premises and is not divisible notwithstanding any references herein to any individual Leased Property and notwithstanding the possibility that certain individual Leased Properties may be deleted herefrom pursuant to the express provisions of this Lease under certain limited circumstances. The parties hereto expressly intend that this Lease, notwithstanding the possibility that certain individual Leased Properties may be deleted herefrom under certain limited circumstances expressly provided for in this Lease, be treated as a single lease for all purposes whatsoever, including Extended Terms, any assignment of the leasehold estate by Tenant (as approved by Landlord), and in the context of Tenant's attempted rejection, assumption and/or assignment of this Lease in any bankruptcy or other insolvency proceeding affecting any Tenant, in which case the parties hereto intend for such rejection to terminate this Lease with respect to the entire Premises or such assumption to apply with respect to the entire Premises, i.e., all but not less than all of the Leased Properties. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the existence of Tenant's Proportionate Share and the allocation of Rent described in Section 3.1.2 hereof and elsewhere does not change the joint and several nature of each Tenant's obligation to pay Rent hereunder (it being acknowledged that each Tenant shall be jointly and severally liable for any and all obligations of each other Tenant hereunder, including, but not limited to, each individual Tenant's obligation to pay Rent hereunder). This Lease does not constitute, and may not be enforced (except at Landlord's sole discretion in connection with a Limited Termination Election) or treated as, a separate lease for any individual Leased Property. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the right of possession and leasehold right granted to each Tenant hereunder is limited to the applicable Facility operated by such Tenant as specified on Schedule 1 attached hereto and made a part hereof and the Leased Property on which such Facility is located. 29. Acceptance of Surrender. No surrender to Landlord of this Lease or of any Leased Property or any part of any thereof, or of any interest herein or therein, shall be valid or effective unless agreed to and accepted in writing by Landlord, and no act by Landlord or any representative or agent of Landlord, other than such a written acceptance by Landlord, shall constitute an acceptance of any such surrender. 30. No Merger of Title. There shall be no merger of this Lease or of the leasehold estate created hereby by reason of the fact that the same person, firm, corporation or other entity may acquire, own or hold, directly or indirectly, (a) this Lease or the leasehold estate created hereby or any interest in this Lease or such leasehold estate and (b) the fee estate in any Leased Property. 31. Conveyance by Landlord. Landlord may, without the consent or approval of Tenant, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber, hypothecate, convey or otherwise dispose of all or any portion of the Premises. If Landlord or any successor owner of any Leased Property shall sell, transfer, assign, convey or otherwise dispose of any Leased Property in accordance with the terms hereof other than as security for a debt, and the purchaser, grantee, assignee or transferee 77
of the Leased Property(ies) shall expressly assume all obligations of Landlord hereunder with respect to such Leased Property(ies) arising or accruing from and after the date of such sale, conveyance, transfer, assignment or other disposition, Landlord or such successor owner, as the case may be, shall thereupon be released from all future liabilities and obligations of Landlord under this Lease with respect to such Leased Property(ies) arising or accruing from and after the date of such sale, conveyance, transfer, assignment or other disposition as to such Leased Property(ies) and all such future liabilities and obligations with respect to such Leased Property(ies) shall thereupon be binding upon such purchaser, grantee, assignee or transferee. In the event of any such sale, transfer, assignment, conveyance or other disposition (other than as security for a debt) of less than all of the Premises, the provisions of Section 41 hereof governing New Leases shall apply. 32. Quiet Enjoyment. So long as Tenant shall pay all Rent as the same becomes due and shall fully comply with all of the terms of this Lease and fully perform its obligations hereunder, Tenant shall peaceably and quietly have, hold and enjoy each Leased Property for the Term hereof, free of any claim, interruption or other action by Landlord or anyone claiming by, through or under Landlord, but subject to all Permitted Encumbrances. No failure by Landlord to comply with the foregoing covenant shall give Tenant any right to abate, reduce or make a deduction from or offset against the Rent or any other sum payable under this Lease, or to fail to perform any other obligation of Tenant hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall have all rights and remedies available at law or in equity, except as otherwise provided herein, by separate and independent action, to pursue any claim or claims it may have against Landlord as a result of any breach by Landlord of the covenant of quiet enjoyment contained in this Section 32. 33. Notices. All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and delivered by mail (registered or certified mail, return receipt requested), in which case such notice shall be deemed received three (3) Business Days after its deposit, by confirmed facsimile, in which case such notice shall be deemed received the same day, or by reputable nationally recognized overnight courier service, in which case such notice shall be deemed received the next Business Day, addressed to the respective parties, as follows: (a) if to any Tenant: c/o Trans Healthcare, Inc. 4660 Trindle Road Suite 103 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17011 Attention: President, CEO Facsimile: (717) 730-8722 78
with a copy to: Latsha Davis & Yohe, P.C. 4720 Old Gettysburg Road Suite 101 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17108-0825 Attention: Douglas C. Yohe Facsimile: (717) 761-2286 (b) if to Landlord: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership c/o Ventas, Inc. 333 West Wacker Drive Suite 2700 Chicago, Illinois 60606 Attention: Asset Manager Facsimile: (312) 596-3850 with a copy to: Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile: (502) 357-9001 or to such other address as either party may hereunder designate in writing. 34. Appraisals. 34.1 Appraisals. If Tenant timely and properly exercises the Option or a Renewal Option, Landlord promptly shall deliver to Tenant its determination of: (i) Fair Market Value and the Option Purchase Price; or (ii) Fair Market Rental and Fixed Rent for the first Lease Year of the applicable Extended Term, as the case may be (the "Landlord Determination"). If Tenant reasonably and in good faith disputes or disagrees with any Landlord Determination, Landlord and Tenant shall act mutually, reasonably and in good faith for a period of thirty (30) days to agree upon the Fair Market Value or the Fair Market Rental, as the case may be. If Landlord and Tenant are unable to agree upon the Fair Market Rental (and the resultant Fixed Rent for the first Lease Year of the applicable Extended Term) or the Fair Market Value (and the resultant Option Purchase Price) of any Leased Property(ies) for purposes of Section 36 or Section 1.3, respectively, such amounts shall be determined pursuant to the appraisal procedures set forth in Sections 34.2 through 34.5 below. 34.2 Appointment of Appraisers. Within ten (10) Business Days after the expiration of the thirty (30) day negotiation period described in Section 34.1 above, Landlord 79
shall, by written notice to Tenant, propose an appraiser meeting the requirements of Section 34.3 below (the "Landlord Appraiser Notice", and such identified appraiser, "Landlord's Appraiser"). Within five (5) Business Days after its receipt of the Landlord Appraiser Notice, Tenant shall, by written notice to Landlord, either accept or contest Landlord's Appraiser as the sole and final appraiser for the purposes of determining the Fair Market Rental or the Fair Market Value, as the case may be. If Tenant accepts Landlord's Appraiser as the sole and final appraiser for such purposes, then Landlord's Appraiser shall perform the necessary appraisal and determine the Fair Market Rental or the Fair Market Value, as the case may be, in accordance with the appraisal requirements set forth in the definition of "Fair Market Rental", or "Fair Market Value", as applicable (a "Conforming Appraisal"). The results of such Conforming Appraisal made by Landlord's Appraiser shall thereupon constitute the final determination of Fair Market Rental or Fair Market Value, as the case may be. If Tenant contests Landlord's Appraiser as the sole and final appraiser for the purposes of determining the Fair Market Rental or the Fair Market Value, as the case may be, then: (i) Tenant shall, within five (5) Business Days after its receipt of the Landlord Appraiser Notice, appoint an appraiser meeting the requirements of Section 34.3 below ("Tenant's Appraiser") and notify Landlord in writing of such appointment, and (ii) Landlord's Appraiser and Tenant's Appraiser shall perform independent Conforming Appraisals within fifteen (15) Business Days thereafter. If Tenant fails to timely appoint Tenant's Appraiser, Tenant shall be deemed to have accepted Landlord's Appraiser as the sole and final appraiser for the purpose of determining Fair Market Rental or Fair Market Value, as the case may be, and the Conforming Appraisal of Landlord's Appraiser shall control. If the results of such Conforming Appraisals differ by less than five percent (5%) of the lower of such results, then Fair Market Value or Fair Market Rental, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the arithmetic average of such results. If the results of such Conforming Appraisals differ by five percent (5%) or more of the lower of such results, then Landlord's Appraiser and Tenant's Appraiser shall, within five (5) Business Days of the completion of such Conforming Appraisals, select a third appraiser meeting the requirements of Section 34.3 below (the "Third Appraiser"), which Third Appraiser shall perform a Conforming Appraisal within fifteen (15) Business Days thereafter. Upon completion of such third Conforming Approval, the Fair Market Rental or Fair Market Value shall be determined as follows: the result of such Conforming Appraisals that differs the most (either higher or lower) from the middle result shall be discarded and Fair Market Value or Fair Market Rental, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be the arithmetic average of the results contained in the two (2) remaining Conforming Appraisals. 34.3 Qualifications of Appraisers. Each of Landlord's Appraiser, Tenant's Appraiser and any Third Appraiser must (a) be a member of the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers (or any successor organization thereto) and/or a person employed by an accounting firm that, at the time of such appointment, is one of the four (4) largest public accounting firms in the United States and (b) have not less than five (5) years experience, including substantial expertise, in valuing hospitals and nursing centers and/or determining the fair market rental value of hospitals and nursing centers. 34.4 Binding Nature. The determination of Fair Market Rental or Fair Market Value pursuant to this Section 34 shall be final and binding upon the parties for purposes of determining Fair Market Rental (and the resultant Fixed Rent for the first Lease Year of any 80
Extended Term) or the Fair Market Value (and resultant Option Purchase Price), as applicable, and shall not be subject to judicial review. 34.5 Costs. Tenant shall pay the actual fees and expenses of all of the appraisers appointed hereunder, which costs shall be Consent Expenses for all relevant purposes. 35. General REIT Provisions. Tenant understands that, in order for Landlord's general partner, Ventas, Inc., to qualify as a REIT, certain requirements (the "REIT Requirements") must be satisfied, including, without limitation, the provisions of Section 856 of the Code. Accordingly, Tenant agrees, and agrees to cause its Affiliates, permitted subtenants, if any, and any other parties subject to its control by ownership or contract, to reasonably cooperate with Landlord to ensure that the REIT Requirements are satisfied, including, but not limited to, providing Landlord or Ventas, Inc. with information about the ownership of Tenant and its Affiliates. Tenant agrees, and agrees to cause its Affiliates, upon request by Landlord or Ventas, Inc., to take all action reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with the REIT Requirements. 36. Landlord's Option to Purchase the Tenant's Personal Property. Effective on not less than ninety (90) days' prior written notice given at any time within one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the expiration of the Term, but not later than ninety (90) days prior to such expiration, or within thirty (30) days after the termination of this Lease if this Lease is terminated in whole or in part, or within thirty (30) days after the dispossession of Tenant of any of the Leased Properties prior to the expiration of the Term, Landlord or any Successor Operator shall have the option to purchase all or any portion of Tenant's Personal Property located at the Leased Property(ies) in question, if any, for a purchase price equal to the unamortized portion of the original cost based upon the economic useful life, as defined by the American Hospital Guide (or, if such guide ceases to be published by the American Hospital Association, a substitute guide or other economic useful life reference book mutually agreed upon by Landlord and Tenant, each acting reasonably), subject to, and with appropriate price adjustments for, all equipment leases, conditional sale contracts, UCC-1 financing statements and other encumbrances to which such Tenant's Personal Property is subject. The notice from Landlord or any Successor Operator exercising such right shall specify that portion of the Tenant's Personal Property that Landlord or any Successor Operator have elected to acquire. Promptly following demand by Landlord (but in any event within thirty (30) days following such demand), Tenant shall deliver to Landlord a computation and statement, in form, content and detail reasonably satisfactory to Landlord, of the purchase price described above as of the date of such expiration, termination or dispossession, as the case may be, for all of Tenant's Personal Property located at the Leased Property(ies) in question. If Landlord reasonably and in good faith disputes or disagrees with Tenant's calculation of such purchase price, Landlord shall so notify Tenant in writing, whereupon the parties shall act mutually, reasonably and in good faith for a period of ten (10) days to agree upon such purchase price. If the parties are unable to agree upon such purchase price, then Landlord's calculation, absent manifest error, shall control and be binding on the parties. Tenant shall execute and deliver such assignments, conveyance documents, bills of sale and other instruments as Landlord shall reasonably require to evidence such conveyance and otherwise reasonably assist Landlord with such conveyance. 81
37. Compliance With Environmental Laws. 37.1 Hazardous Substances. Tenant shall not place or hold any Hazardous Substances on or at any of the Leased Properties, except as is necessary or reasonable in the ordinary course of its business. If Tenant's business requires the use of any Hazardous Substances, other than such cleaning materials as are typically found in healthcare facilities, Tenant shall notify Landlord in writing and shall comply in all material respects with hazard communication and notification requirements of the Occupational Safety and Health Act and any other Environmental Laws with respect to such Hazardous Substances. Tenant shall comply in all material respects with any and all Environmental Laws in connection with its use, operation and management of the Leased Properties. Tenant shall not cause or allow any asbestos to be incorporated into any Leased Improvements or Alterations that it makes or causes to be made on or to any of the Leased Improvements where the presence of such asbestos would pose a risk to human health or safety or result in a violation of Environmental Laws. Tenant shall not place, hold or dispose of any Hazardous Substances on, under or at any of the Leased Properties except as specifically allowed pursuant to this Section 37.1. Tenant further agrees that it shall not use any of the Leased Properties as a treatment, storage, or disposal (whether permanent or temporary) facility for Hazardous Waste as defined under RCRA. If Tenant, in the ordinary course of its business, generates Hazardous Waste, then Tenant shall comply in all material respects with any and all Environmental Laws relating to the appropriate use, storage, transportation and disposal of Hazardous Waste. Tenant further agrees that it shall properly, and in material compliance with all Environmental Laws, dispose of all "infectious waste" such as, without limitation, laboratory waste, pathological waste, blood specimens or products, resident or patient waste including, without limitation, bandages and disposable gowns, sharp waste and any material generated by the production or testing of biological agents. All of the terms, covenants, warranties and indemnifications contained in this Section 37 shall survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease. 37.2 Remediation; Notification. If Tenant becomes aware of a material violation of any Environmental Laws relating to any Hazardous Substance or otherwise in, on, under or about any Leased Property or any adjacent property thereto, or if Tenant, Landlord or a Leased Property becomes subject to any order of any federal, state or local agency to repair, close, detoxify, decontaminate or otherwise remediate such Leased Property, Tenant shall promptly notify Landlord of such event and, at its sole cost and expense, cure such violation or effect such repair, closure, detoxification, decontamination or other remediation, which activities shall in all events be performed in accordance with any and all applicable Environmental Laws and shall be subject to Landlord's written approval as to their scope, process, content and standard for completion prior to their commencement, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed. If Tenant fails to implement and diligently pursue any such cure, repair, closure, detoxification, decontamination or other remediation pursuant to the terms of this Section 37.2, Landlord shall have the right, but not the obligation, to carry out such action and to recover from Tenant all of Landlord's costs and expenses incurred in connection therewith. Tenant shall promptly notify Landlord upon becoming aware (or being notified) of (i) any claims, suits, proceedings, investigations or demands, or any enforcement, cleanup or other regulatory or judicial action, threatened, made, or initiated against or involving Tenant and relating to the Leased Properties pursuant to Environmental Laws, including, without limitation, those relating to the presence, treatment, storage, handling, disposal, generation, spill, release or 82
discharge of any Hazardous Substances on, at, in, under or about the Leased Properties or the migration thereof from or to any other property; and (ii) the imposition of any lien arising under Environmental Laws on the Leased Properties. Landlord shall promptly notify Tenant upon becoming aware of (i) any claims, suits, proceedings, investigations or demands, or any enforcement, cleanup or other regulatory or judicial action, threatened, made, or initiated against or involving Landlord and relating to the Leased Properties pursuant to Environmental Laws, including, without limitation, those relating to the presence, treatment, storage, handling, disposal, generation, spill, release or discharge of any Hazardous Substances on the Leased Properties or the migration thereof from or to any other property; and (ii) the imposition of any lien arising under Environmental Laws on the Leased Properties. 37.3 Indemnity. Tenant shall indemnify, defend, protect, save, hold Landlord and all of the Landlord Indemnified Parties harmless from and against any and all Losses (including, but not limited to, losses of use or economic benefit or diminution in value) suffered or incurred by Landlord or any Landlord Indemnified Parties in connection with, arising out of, resulting from or incident to: (i) the production, use, generation, storage, treatment, transporting, disposal, discharge, release or other handling or disposition of any Hazardous Substances from, in, on or about any of the Leased Properties, whenever caused, arising or occurring, except to the extent caused by Landlord or any of the Landlord Indemnified Parties from and after the date hereof; (ii) the presence of any Hazardous Substances in, on, under or about any Leased Properties (x) before the date hereof or (y) during the Term as a result of the actions or omissions of Tenant or any Tenant Parties; (iii) the violation of any Environmental Laws by (x) Tenant or any Tenant Parties during the Term or (y) the Leased Properties prior to the date hereof; and (iv) a breach by Tenant or any Tenant Parties of this Section 37. 37.4 Environmental Inspection. Upon reasonable belief that Tenant has not satisfied its obligations pursuant to this Section 37 and otherwise not more than once annually, Landlord shall have the right, and upon not less than five (5) days' written notice to Tenant, except in the case of an emergency, in which event no notice shall be required, to conduct an inspection of any Leased Property to determine the existence or presence of Hazardous Substances at, in, on, under or about any Leased Property in material violation of any Environmental Laws or the existence at any Leased Property of any material violation of any Environmental Laws. Landlord shall have the right to enter and inspect any Leased Property, conduct any testing, sampling and analyses reasonably necessary and shall have the right to inspect materials brought into any Leased Property. Landlord may, in its discretion, retain such experts to conduct the inspection, or perform the tests, referred to herein, and to prepare a written report in connection therewith. Landlord shall have the right to inspect the Leased Properties with regard to the management and disposal of Hazardous Substances and Hazardous Waste at all reasonable times during the Term. All reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Landlord under this Section 37.4 shall be paid by Tenant as Consent Expenses. 37.5 Removal. Upon the expiration of the Term, or the earlier termination thereof as to one or more Leased Properties, whichever shall be the first to occur, Tenant shall forthwith remove all Hazardous Substances from any portion of the Leased Properties as to which such expiration or termination relates, to the extent caused by Tenant or any Tenant Parties, or brought upon any such Leased Properties by Tenant or any Tenant Parties, from and 83
after the date hereof, which removal shall be performed in accordance with any Environmental Laws and to Landlord's reasonable satisfaction. 38. Tenant's Option to Purchase the Leased Property. Provided no Event of Default exists, and is continuing hereunder at the time Tenant exercises the Option or at the closing of the sale of the Premises to Tenant, Tenant shall have the option (the "Option") to purchase all (but not less than all) of the Premises upon the expiration of the Initial Term (but not any Extended Term), at the greater of (i) the Minimum Purchase Price or (ii) the Fair Market Value (the "Option Purchase Price"). Tenant may exercise such Option by giving written notice to Landlord of its exercise of the Option (an "Option Exercise Notice") no earlier than eighteen (18) months and not less than fifteen (15) months prior to the expiration of the Initial Term and depositing with Landlord twenty percent (20%) of the Minimum Purchase Price (the "Earnest Money Deposit") simultaneously with the delivery of the Option Exercise Notice. Any exercise by Tenant of the Option shall void all Renewal Options (including any previously exercised Renewal Options). Landlord shall have thirty (30) days after Tenant's exercise of the Option to elect, in its sole discretion, to expand the Premises to include one or more Additional Properties pursuant to, and in accordance with, Section 41 hereof. For purposes of the exercise of the Option, any such Additional Properties shall be included in the Premises for all relevant purposes, including, but not limited to, the calculation of the Option Purchase Price. Landlord and Tenant shall proceed to the closing (the "Option Closing") on the date that is nine (9) months after the exercise of the Option. If Tenant fails to proceed to the Option Closing for any reason other than a default by Landlord with respect to its obligations pursuant to the terms of Exhibit D relative to the Option and the Option Closing, Landlord shall have the unconditional right to: (i) retain the Earnest Money Deposit, as fixed and liquidated damages (and not as a penalty); and (ii) either: (x) declare an immediate Event of Default hereunder; or (y) extend the Initial Term for a period of one (1) year on and subject to the terms of this Lease, in which case the Fixed Rent for such extension period shall be subject to the escalation pursuant to Section 3.1.2 hereof applicable to any other Lease Year during the Term. The Option shall be exercised subject to, and in accordance with, the terms and conditions applicable to the exercise of the Option set forth in Exhibit D attached hereto. 39. Operational Transfer. 39.1 Exercise; Transfer of Authorizations. 39.1.1 Exercise. Upon (a) the expiration of this Lease as to any Leased Property in accordance with its terms as of the Expiration Date specified herein or (b) the occurrence of an Early Termination Event as to any Leased Property (including any Deleted Property), Landlord shall have the unequivocal and unilateral right to require an Operational Transfer with respect to such Leased Property (any Leased Property with respect to which Landlord elects to require an Operational Transfer, a "Transition Property") by delivery of written notice to Tenant specifying such election (a "Transition Notice"). Landlord may elect (in its sole discretion) to exercise its right to require an Operational Transfer with respect to any Leased Property with respect to which the Lease will terminate by its terms as of the Expiration Date stated herein by delivering written notice of such election to Tenant on or prior to ten (10) days prior to the Expiration Date. In the event of an Early Termination Event as to one or more 84
Leased Properties, Landlord may exercise (in its sole discretion) its right to require an Operational Transfer at any time by delivering a Transition Notice to Tenant. 39.1.2 Transfer of Permits. Provided that Landlord exercises its unilateral right to require an Operational Transfer with respect to any Leased Property, Tenant shall take any and all necessary actions; file such applications, petitions, and transfer notices; make such assignments, conveyances and transfers of permits, licenses, approvals and Facility Provider Agreements issued to Tenant to and for the benefit of Landlord and/or any Landlord's designee (any such designee, a "Successor Operator"); and cause such permits, licenses, approvals and Provider Agreements to be issued to and for the benefit of Landlord and/or any Successor Operator, in any and all such cases, as are necessary, desirable, or advisable, such that the day-to-day operations of the Transition Property for the Primary Intended Use(s) of the Facility(ies) located on such Transition Property) are transferred and transitioned, practically and legally, to the Landlord and/or any Successor Operator simultaneously with the termination or earlier expiration of this Lease as to the Transition Property(ies) without interruption of the business activities therein, regulatory or otherwise (such transfer of operations, the "Operational Transfer"). Without limitation of the foregoing, as part of any Operational Transfer, Tenant shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, (i) sell, transfer, convey and assign to Landlord and/or any Successor Operator, as applicable, those of the Authorizations that Landlord elects to assume and accept (or cause Successor Operator to assume and accept) (the "Assigned Authorizations"); (ii) cooperate in all respects with Landlord and/or any Successor Operator, and use its unconditional, best efforts to enable Landlord and/or Successor Operator to apply for and obtain any and all licenses, operating permits, Provider Agreements, provider status, certificates of need, certificates of exemption, approvals, waivers, variances and other governmental, quasi-governmental and private authorizations necessary or advisable for the continuous operation of the Facility(ies) located on any Transition Property for its/their Primary Intended Use(s) (collectively, "Transfer Authorizations"); and (iii) assign to Landlord or any Successor Operator, as applicable, such assignable patient, vendor, service provider and other contracts relating to the Facility(ies) located on any Transition Property as Landlord or Successor Operator may request (the "Assigned Contracts"). The costs and expenses incident to any Operational Transfer including, but not limited to, any costs incident to assigning the Assigned Authorizations, obtaining Transfer Authorizations and assigning the Assigned Contracts shall be paid entirely by Tenant, which costs and expenses shall be Consent Expenses. It is the express intention of the parties that, at the expiration or earlier termination of the Term as to any Transition Property, and upon any dispossession of Tenant in connection with any Event of Default as to any Facility(ies) located on such Transition Property, any and all Authorizations needed to operate each Transition Property as to which the Term is expired or terminated, or as to which Tenant has been dispossessed, for its/their Primary Intended Use(s) shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, and if Landlord so elects, remain with such Facility(ies) and shall be transferred into the name of Landlord and/or Successor Operator, as applicable, regardless of whether such Authorization is in the name of Tenant at any time during the Term. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Tenant shall furnish to Landlord or Successor Operator, as applicable, complete and accurate documents and information in Tenant's possession, custody or control necessary or reasonably requested by Landlord or Successor Operator in connection with any Operational Transfer and the completion and processing of any applications for the assignment of the Assigned Authorizations or the Assigned Contracts or obtaining Transfer Authorizations. 85
39.2 Reasonable Assistance. In anticipation of the expiration of this Lease as to any Leased Property, or upon any Early Termination Event as to any Leased Property, Tenant shall cooperate with Landlord in all respects to facilitate and effectuate an Operational Transfer if Landlord elects to require an Operational Transfer. Such cooperation shall include, without limitation: (i) furnishing to Landlord or any prospective Successor Operator complete and accurate books, records, files, documents and information in Tenant's possession, custody or control necessary or reasonably requested by Landlord or Successor Operator in connection with the assessment and/or assumption of the operations of any Transition Properties; and (ii) facilitating the evaluation and employment by Landlord or any prospective Successor Operator of such employees of Tenant or its Affiliates (or any third party employment agency with whom Tenant or its Affiliates has an agreement pursuant to which such agency employs such parties) as Landlord or Successor Operator may elect to evaluate or employ, including, without limitation, to the extent permitted by law, affording Landlord or Successor Operator, as applicable, access to all relevant personnel files, records, documents and information in Tenant's or its Affiliates' possession, custody or control. 39.3 Facility Termination; Limited Extension. 39.3.1 Facility Termination. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Lease, Tenant shall not, prior to the tenth (10th) day preceding the stated Expiration Date as to any Leased Property, commence to wind up and terminate the operations of the Facility(ies) operated thereon (a "Facility Termination"). In no event, and under no circumstances, shall any Tenant relocate the patients or occupants of any Facility to any other healthcare facility without obtaining Landlord's prior written consent (which consent may be withheld in Landlord's sole discretion); provided, however, that if Landlord has not delivered a Transition Notice to Tenant prior to the tenth (10th) day preceding the stated Expiration Date of this Lease as to a Leased Property, then Tenant may commence the Facility Termination (involving the relocation of patients) as to the Facility(ies) located on such Leased Property and, upon the expiration of this Lease as to such Leased Property and Facility(ies), Tenant shall vacate such Leased Property and surrender possession thereof to Landlord in accordance with all of the applicable requirements of this Lease. If, prior to the tenth (10th) day preceding the stated Expiration Date of this Lease as to a Leased Property, Landlord elects to require an Operational Transfer by delivering a Transition Notice to Tenant, Tenant shall not commence or otherwise engage in a Facility Termination with respect to the Facility(ies) located on such Leased Property. In the event of an Early Termination Event, Tenant shall in no event commence a Facility Termination in connection with the applicable Leased Property unless and until Landlord affirmatively elects, in writing and in its sole discretion, not to deliver a Transition Notice with respect to such Leased Property. 39.3.2 Limited Extension. In the event Landlord delivers a Transition Notice, Tenant shall thereafter operate the Facility(ies) located on such Transition Property in accordance with all of the requirements of this Lease until the earliest to occur of (i) the date (on or after the expiration of this Lease as to such Transition Property and Facility(ies)) on which Landlord or Successor Operator, as applicable, will assume the operation of such Facility(ies), as specified in a written notice from Landlord to Tenant given not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date of such assumption; (ii) the date that is ninety (90) days after the stated Expiration Date of this Lease as to such Transition Property and Facility(ies) (except that 86
in connection with any Early Termination Event, such ninety (90) day period shall not commence until Landlord delivers a Transition Notice as to the applicable Leased Property); and (iii) the date (on or after the stated expiration of this Lease as to any Transition Property and Facility(ies)) that is ninety (90) days after Tenant receives written notice from Landlord that, notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant may commence the Facility Termination, on which earliest date, Tenant shall vacate the Leased Property in question and surrender possession thereof to Landlord in accordance with all of the applicable requirements of this Lease. In the event Landlord sends Tenant a Transition Notice with respect to only a Leased Property as to which the Lease has terminated as of the Expiration Date (i.e. not in the case of an Early Termination Event), and, as a result thereof, Tenant operates one or more Facilities beyond the aforesaid Expiration Date applicable thereto, then, from and after the expiration of this Lease as to such Facility(ies) and until the earliest to occur of the dates described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above (the "Reimbursement Period"), Landlord shall provide Tenant with an operating budget and shall reimburse Tenant for any operating deficits with respect to such Facility(ies) that Tenant may be required to fund out-of-pocket on account of operating losses and expenses of such Facility(ies) incurred by Tenant by reason of, or arising out of compliance with, such budget with respect to the Reimbursement Period. Any such reimbursement shall be due from Landlord to Tenant within thirty (30) days after written request by Tenant, provided that Tenant shall furnish such documentation of any operating deficits, losses and expenses as Landlord may reasonably request. The terms of this Section 39 shall survive the expiration or sooner termination of this Lease. 40. Non-Recourse. Tenant specifically agrees to look solely to Landlord's and any successor owner's interest in the then applicable Premises for recovery of any judgment from Landlord, it being specifically agreed that neither Landlord, any such successor owner, nor any officer, director, employee, lender, agent or Affiliate of Landlord or any such successor owner shall ever be personally liable for any such judgment or for the payment of any monetary obligation to Tenant. Tenant shall have no recourse against any other property or assets of Landlord or any successor owner, or against any property or assets of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, member, lender, agent or Affiliate of Landlord or any successor owner. Furthermore, in no event shall Landlord (original or successor) ever be liable to Tenant for any special, indirect or consequential damages suffered by Tenant from whatever cause. 41. Combination of Leases. If Landlord is the lessor under both this Lease and any New Lease, Landlord shall have the right, at any time during the Term, by written notice to Tenant, to require that this Lease and such New Lease (the "Combination Lease") be combined into a single lease and to require Tenant to execute an amendment to this Lease whereby (a) if this Lease is the Section 41 Lease, the Leased Properties covered by the Combination Lease ("Additional Properties") are added as Leased Properties under this Lease and otherwise merged into this Lease or (b) if the Combination Lease is the Section 41 Lease, the Leased Properties covered by this Lease are added as Leased Properties under the Combination Lease and otherwise merged into the Combination Lease, in each case subject to the following terms and conditions: 41.1 Section 41 Lease. References in this Lease to the "Section 41 Lease" shall mean and refer to whichever of this Lease or the Combination Lease is chosen by Lessor to be the Section 41 Lease. 87
41.2 Additional Properties. If this Lease is the Section 41 Lease, effective as of the date specified in Section 41.4 below (the "Section 41 Date"), this Lease shall be deemed to be modified and amended as follows: 41.2.1 The Additional Properties shall be included as Leased Properties under this Lease and the appropriate exhibits to this Lease shall be modified to add the addresses and legal descriptions of such Additional Properties. 41.2.2 Fixed Rent under this Lease shall be the combination of the respective amounts of the Fixed Rent under this Lease and the Combination Lease. 41.2.3 Any rental escalations that are to be made with respect to the Leased Properties under this Lease shall also be made with respect to the Additional Properties as if such Additional Properties had been Leased Properties under this Lease since the beginning of the Term. 41.2.4 Schedule 2 to this Lease shall be modified and amended so as to add thereto the Tenant's Proportionate Share(s) relative to the Tenant(s) under the Combination Lease that was/were previously included in Schedule 2 to the Combination Lease, and the Tenant's Proportionate Share(s) of the Tenants included in this Lease (including, without limitation, the additional Tenant(s) from the Combination Lease) shall be recalculated so that each such Tenant shall have a Tenant's Proportionate Share equal to the percentage that the Fixed Rent allocable to the Facility operated by such Tenant (which allocable portion of Fixed Rent shall remain equal to the share of Fixed Rent that was allocated to such Facility under this Lease or the Combination Lease, as applicable, prior to the combination of the Leases pursuant to this Section 41) comprises of the aggregate Fixed Rents for all Leased Properties included in this Lease (including, without limitation, the Additional Properties) and so that the aggregate of all Tenant's Proportionate Shares equals 100%. 41.2.5 Tenant under this Lease shall be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of all duties, obligations and liabilities arising under the Combination Lease, insofar as they relate to the Additional Properties, that were not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to the Section 41 Date, and, without limitation of the foregoing, (x) any Event of Default that had occurred, arisen or accrued under the Combination Lease prior to the Section 41 Date shall be, and shall be deemed to be, an Event of Default under this Lease, as to which the rights and remedies and other provisions of this Lease shall be applicable, (y) any breach or default that had occurred, arisen or accrued under the Combination Lease prior to the Section 41 Date but had not yet become an Event of Default under the Combination Lease as of the Section 41 Date shall be, and be deemed to be, a breach or default under this Lease, as to which the cure periods, rights and remedies and other provisions of this Lease shall be applicable, and (z) with respect to any breach or default described in subsection (y) above, although the cure periods, rights and remedies and other provisions of this Lease shall be applicable, the portion of any cure period under the Combination Lease that had elapsed as of the Section 41 Date shall be counted in determining whether and when the applicable cure period under this Lease has expired. 88
41.2.6 The Additional Properties shall otherwise be incorporated into this Lease as Leased Properties included under this Lease the same as if this Lease, from the inception of the Lease, had included such Leased Properties as Leased Properties hereunder on the rent, lease terms and other economic terms described in the Combination Lease. 41.2.7 Exhibit C attached hereto and made a part hereof and the Base Year Operating Income shall thereafter be amended and increased, respectively, to include the Additional Properties and increase the Base Year Operating Income by the amount of the Allocated Base Year Operating Income applicable to the Additional Properties. 41.3 Combination Lease. If this Lease is not the Section 41 Lease, effective as of the Section 41 Date, this Lease shall be modified and amended as necessary (x) to incorporate into the Combination Lease as Leased Properties thereunder the Leased Properties covered by this Lease the same as if the Leased Properties covered by this Lease had, from the inception of this Lease, been included in the Combination Lease as Leased Properties thereunder on the rent, lease terms and other economic terms described in this Lease and (y) otherwise to comply with the requirements of Section 41 of the Combination Lease, as the Section 41 Lease thereunder. Tenant acknowledges and agrees that, without limitation of Section 41.2.5 above, the modification and amendment referenced in this Section 41.2.7 shall not result in Tenant being released from any duties, liabilities or obligations that had accrued under this Lease through the Section 41 Date. 41.4 Section 41 Date. In the case of any combination of leases pursuant to this Section 41, such combination shall be effective on the date that is the earlier of (x) the date the required modifications and amendments to the Lease and the Combination Lease are fully executed and delivered by the parties thereto and (y) the date specified in the written notice from Landlord to Tenant requiring a combination of this Lease and the Combination Lease as described above, which date shall be no sooner than ten (10) days, nor later than sixty (60) days, after the date such notice is issued. 41.5 Additional Actions. Landlord and each Tenant shall take such actions and execute and deliver such documents, including, without limitation, required modifications and amendments to this Lease and the Combination Lease, as are reasonably necessary and appropriate to effectuate fully the provisions and intent of this Section 41. 42. New Lease. Landlord shall have the right, at any time and from time to time during the Term, by written notice to Tenant, to require Tenant to execute an amendment to this Lease whereby one or more Leased Properties (individually, a "Transferred Premises" or collectively, "Transferred Premises") are separated and removed from this Lease, and simultaneously to execute a substitute lease with respect to such Transferred Premises, in which case: 42.1 New Lease Terms. Landlord and Tenant shall execute a new lease (the "New Lease") for such Transferred Premises, effective as of the date specified in Section 42.3 below (the "Property Transfer Date"), in the same form and substance as this Lease, but with the following changes thereto: 89
42.1.1 Fixed Rent. The initial Fixed Rent for such Transferred Premises shall be an amount equal to the product of (x) the sum of Tenant's Proportionate Shares applicable to all of the Facilities located on the Transferred Premises, and (y) aggregate Fixed Rent in effect under this Lease on the Property Transfer Date. The allocable share of Fixed Rent for each Tenant under the New Lease shall be equal to the product of (i) Tenant's Proportionate Share for the Facility(ies) located on such Transferred Premises under the New Lease, as calculated pursuant to Section 42.1.2 and (ii) Fixed Rent under the New Lease. Any rental escalations required under this Lease shall be made under the New Lease on the same date and in the same manner as is required under this Lease, in the full amount required as if such Transferred Premises had been under the New Lease for a full year, notwithstanding that the period from the Property Transfer Date to the rent escalation date may be less than one full year. The Base Year Operating Income applicable to the Transferred Premises for purposes of determining whether the Rent Escalation Condition under such New Lease has been satisfied shall be equal to the aggregate of the Allocated Base Year Operating Incomes for all of the Transferred Premises. 42.1.2 Proportionate Shares. An exhibit to such New Lease comparable to Schedule 2 attached to this Lease shall include Tenant's Proportionate Share for each Facility located on the Transferred Premises covered by the New Lease, equal to the percentage that the Fixed Rent for such Facility under the New Lease comprises of the aggregate Fixed Rent for all Facilities located on all the Transferred Premises under such New Lease (and the aggregate of all such Tenant's Proportionate Shares under such New Lease shall equal 100%). 42.1.3 Liabilities and Obligations. The New Lease shall provide that each Tenant thereunder shall be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of all duties, obligations and liabilities arising under this Lease, insofar as they relate to the Transferred Premises subject to the New Lease, that were not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to the commencement date of the New Lease (and Tenant under this Lease shall also be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of the aforesaid duties, obligations and liabilities not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to the commencement date of such New Lease), and shall further provide that the Tenant thereunder shall not be responsible for the payment, performance or satisfaction of any duties, obligations and liabilities of Tenant under this Lease arising after the Property Transfer Date. 42.1.4 Single Leased Property. If the New Lease relates to a single Leased Property, all references to multiple Leased Properties in the New Lease shall be eliminated. 42.1.5 REIT Provisions. At the election of Landlord, any one or more of the provisions of the New Lease pertaining to the REIT status of Ventas, Inc. status shall be deleted. In addition, Landlord may delete and eliminate from such New Lease such provisions herein as it elects, provided such deletion and elimination does not materially and adversely affect the Tenant under such New Lease. 42.1.6 Security Deposit; Escrow Deposits. Such New Lease shall contemplate both a security deposit and escrow deposits in the same manner or fashion as 90
contemplated by this Lease, which amounts shall initially be funded by Landlord, on a proportional basis, from the Security Deposit and the escrow deposits held by Landlord hereunder. 42.2 Modifications to this Lease. Upon execution of such New Lease, and effective as of the Property Transfer Date, this Lease shall be deemed to be modified and amended as follows: (i) the Transferred Premises shall be excluded from the Premises hereunder; (ii) Fixed Rent hereunder shall be reduced by the amount of the Fixed Rent allocable to the Transferred Premises; (iii) Exhibit C attached hereto and made a part hereof and the Base Year Operating Income shall be amended and reduced, respectively, to delete and eliminate the Transferred Premises therefrom and reduce the Base Year Operating Income by the amount of the Allocated Base Year Operating Income(s) applicable to the Transferred Premises for purposes of determining whether the Rent Escalation Condition has been satisfied or otherwise under this Lease; and (iv) Schedule 2 attached hereto shall be modified so as to remove the Tenant's Proportionate Shares for the Transferred Premises, and the Tenant's Proportionate Shares for the Leased Properties remaining under this Lease shall be recalculated so that each such Facility shall have a Tenant's Proportionate Share equal to the percentage that the Fixed Rent for such Facility comprises of the aggregate Fixed Rents for all Premises remaining under this Lease, and so that the aggregate of all Tenant's Proportionate Shares remaining under this Lease equals 100%. Such revisions may, at Landlord's election, be reflected in a formal amendment to this Lease, which amendment shall be promptly executed by Tenant. 42.3 Effective Date. Any New Lease shall be effective on the date which is the earlier of: (i) the date the New Lease is fully executed and delivered by the parties thereto and (ii) the date specified in the written notice from Landlord to Tenant requiring a New Lease as described above, which date shall be no sooner than ten (10) days, nor later than sixty (60) days, after the date such notice is issued. 42.4 Other Undertakings. Tenant shall take such actions and execute and deliver such documents, including without limitation the New Lease and new or amended Memorandum(s) of Lease and, if requested by Landlord, an amendment to this Lease, as are reasonably necessary and appropriate to effectuate fully the provisions and intent of this Section 41, and Landlord shall execute and deliver such new or amended Memorandum(s) of Lease as are reasonably necessary and appropriate to effectuate fully the provisions and intent of this Section 41 and an amendment of this Lease in accordance with Section 42.2 above, as applicable. 43. Expansion of Lease. If at any time during the Term, Tenant, Guarantor or any Affiliate of Tenant or Guarantor desire to acquire, construct or assume any additional healthcare facilities, the terms of that certain side letter agreement between Tenant, Landlord and Guarantor governing "Expansion" shall be applicable. 44. Restrictive Covenant. Tenant, Guarantor and its Affiliates shall be subject to the restrictive covenants and conditions governing the ownership, leasing, management or operation of additional healthcare facilities contained in Exhibit E attached hereto. 91
45. Miscellaneous. 45.1 Survival. Anything contained in this Lease to the contrary notwithstanding, all claims against, and liabilities of, Tenant or Landlord arising prior to any date of termination or expiration of this Lease shall survive such termination or expiration. 45.2 Maximum Rate. If any late charges or interest computations provided for in any provision of this Lease are based upon a rate in excess of the maximum rate permitted by applicable law, the parties agree that such charges or interest computations shall be fixed at the maximum permissible rate. 45.3 Headings. The headings in this Lease are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. 45.4 Integration. This Lease contains the entire agreement between Landlord and Tenant with respect to the subject matter hereof. No representations, warranties or agreements have been made by Landlord except as set forth in this Lease. 45.5 Severability. If any term or provision of this Lease is held or deemed to be invalid or unenforceable, such term or provision shall be modified as slightly as possible so as to render it valid and enforceable; if such term or provision, as modified, shall be held or deemed invalid or unenforceable, such holding shall not affect the remainder of this Lease and same shall remain in full force and effect. 45.6 Subject to Law. All rights, powers and remedies provided herein may be exercised only to the extent that the exercise thereof, including those that do not require the giving of notice, does not violate any applicable law, and are intended to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Lease invalid or unenforceable under any applicable law. All waivers, consents, confessions and releases provided for in this Lease are effective only to the extent permitted by applicable law. This Lease was negotiated in the State of Illinois, which State the parties agree has a substantial relationship to the parties and to the underlying transaction embodied hereby. In all respects, the law of the State of Illinois shall govern the validity of and enforceability of the obligations of the parties set forth herein, but all provisions hereof relating to the creation of the leasehold estate and remedies set forth in Section 17 shall be governed by the laws of the State in which each applicable Leased Property that is the subject of dispute is located, and the parties hereto will submit to jurisdiction and the laying of venue for any suit on this Lease in the Commonwealth of Kentucky. 45.7 Waivers. No waiver of any condition or covenant herein contained, or of any breach of any such condition or covenant, shall be held or taken to be a waiver of any subsequent breach of such covenant or condition, or to permit or excuse its continuance or any future breach thereof, or of Landlord's right to terminate this Lease or exercise any other remedy granted herein on account of such existing default. 45.8 Binding Character. This Lease shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, successors, personal representatives, and permitted assigns of Landlord and Tenant. 92
45.9 Modification. This Lease may be only be modified by a writing signed by both Landlord and Tenant. 45.10 Forbearance. No delay or omission by either party hereto to exercise any right or power accruing upon any noncompliance or default by the other party with respect to any of the terms hereof shall impair any such right or power or be construed to be a waiver thereof. [The remainder of this page is intentionally left blank] 93
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Lease to be executed and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested by their respective officers hereunto duly authorized. LANDLORD: Witness: VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership /s/ BRETT FEINBERG By: Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation - ------------------------------------ Name: Brett Feinberg ------------------------------- By: /s/ T. RICHARD RINEY --------------------------------- /s/ JOSEPH D. LAMBERT Name: T. Richard Riney - ------------------------------------ ------------------------------- Name: Joseph D. Lambert Title: Executive Vice President ------------------------------- ------------------------------ TENANT: Witness: THI OF OHIO AT CHARDON, LLC /s/ ROBIN K. PARTRIDGE THI OF OHIO AT GREENBRIAR NORTH, LLC - ------------------------------------ Name: Robin K. Partridge TRANS HEALTHCARE OF OHIO, INC. ------------------------------- /s/ VINNIE CROMWELL THI OF OHIO ALFs AT THE COMMONS, LLC - ------------------------------------ Name: Vinnie Cromwell THI OF MARYLAND AT SOUTH RIVER, LLC ------------------------------- MILLENNIUM HEALTH AND REHABILITATION CENTER OF FORESTVILLE, LLC MILLENNIUM HEALTH AND REHABILITATION CENTER OF ELLICOTT CITY, LLC By: /s/ ANTHONY MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony Misitano ------------------------------------ Title: President ----------------------------------- S-1
State of New York County of New York Before me a notary public in and for said county, personally appeared T. Richard Riney known to me to be the person who, as Executive Vice President of the Corporation which executed the foregoing instrument, signed the same, and acknowledged to me that (s)he did so sign said instrument in the name and upon behalf of said Corporation as such officer; that the same is his/her free act and deed as such officer, and the free and corporate act and deed of said Corporation on behalf of said limited partnership. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name and affixed my official seal (if official has one) at New York, NY this 30 day of October, 2002. (Seal) /s/ PAUL EDWARD CLAYTON -------------------------------------------- (signature of person taking acknowledgment) (Title or rank) (Serial number, if any) State of New York [Notary Seal] County of New York Before me a notary public in and for said county, personally appeared Anthony Misitano known to me to be the person who, as President of the entities which executed the foregoing instrument, signed the same, and acknowledged to me that (s)he did so sign said instrument in the name and upon behalf of said entities as such officer; that the same is his/her free act and deed as such officer, and the free and corporate act and deed of said entities. In testimony whereof, I have hereunto subscribed my name and affixed my official seal (if official has one) at New York, NY this 30 day of October, 2002. (Seal) /s/ PAUL EDWARD CLAYTON -------------------------------------------- (signature of person taking acknowledgment) (Title or rank) (Serial number, if any) [Notary Seal] S-2

Exhibit 10.2.1 LOAN AGREEMENT Dated as of November 1, 2002 Among THOSE ENTITIES LISTED AS A "BORROWER" ON SCHEDULE III, collectively, as Borrowers and VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, as Lender
ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS; PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION.............................1 Section 1.1. Definitions...................................................1 Section 1.2. Principles of Construction...................................24 ARTICLE II. THE LOAN..........................................................24 Section 2.1. The Loan.....................................................24 Section 2.2. Interest Rate................................................25 Section 2.3. Loan Payments................................................26 Section 2.4. Prepayments..................................................29 Section 2.5. Extension of Loan............................................30 Section 2.6. Supplemental Mortgage Affidavits.............................31 ARTICLE III. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES...................................31 Section 3.1. Borrower Representations.....................................31 Section 3.2. Survival of Representations..................................41 ARTICLE IV. BORROWER COVENANTS................................................41 Section 4.1. Borrower Affirmative Covenants...............................41 Section 4.2. Borrower Negative Covenants..................................49 ARTICLE V. INSURANCE, CASUALTY AND CONDEMNATION...............................52 Section 5.1. Insurance....................................................52 Section 5.2. Casualty and Condemnation....................................56 Section 5.3. Delivery of Net ProceedS.....................................57 ARTICLE VI. ACCOUNTS..........................................................61 Section 6.1. Cash Management Account/Collection Account...................61 Section 6.2. Distributions from Cash Management Account...................62 Section 6.3. Tax and Insurance Escrow Account.............................64 Section 6.4. Debt Service Account.........................................65 Section 6.5. Operating Expense Reserve Account............................65 Section 6.6. Capital Expenditure Reserve Account..........................66 Section 6.7. Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account........66 Section 6.8. Net Proceeds Account.........................................67 Section 6.9. Excess Cash Reserve Account..................................67 Section 6.10. Intentionally Deleted........................................68 Section 6.11. Account Collateral...........................................68 Section 6.12. Permitted Investments........................................68 Section 6.13. Bankruptcy...................................................69 Section 6.14. Letters of Credit............................................69 Section 6.15. Provisions Regarding Letters of Credit.......................70 i
ARTICLE VII. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT..............................................71 Section 7.1. The Management Agreement.....................................71 Section 7.2. Prohibition Against Termination or Modification..............71 Section 7.3. Replacement of Manager.......................................72 ARTICLE VIII. TRANSFERS.......................................................72 Section 8.1. Transfer of the Properties...................................72 Section 8.2. Transfer of Equity Interests.................................72 Section 8.3. Lender's Consent Rights......................................72 ARTICLE IX. SALE AND SECURITIZATION OF MORTGAGE...............................73 Section 9.1. Sale of Mortgages and Securitization.........................73 Section 9.2. Securitization Indemnification...............................74 ARTICLE X. DEFAULTS...........................................................77 Section 10.1. Event of Default.............................................77 Section 10.2. Remedies.....................................................80 Section 10.3. Remedies Cumulative..........................................82 ARTICLE XI. MISCELLANEOUS.....................................................82 Section 11.1. Successors and Assigns.......................................82 Section 11.2. Lender's Discretion..........................................82 Section 11.3. Governing Law................................................82 Section 11.4. Modification, Waiver in Writing..............................84 Section 11.5. Delay Not a Waiver...........................................84 Section 11.6. Notices......................................................84 Section 11.7. Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury.............................85 Section 11.8. Headings.....................................................86 Section 11.9. Severability.................................................86 Section 11.10. Preferences..................................................86 Section 11.11. Waiver of Notice.............................................86 Section 11.12. Remedies of Borrower.........................................86 Section 11.13. Expenses; Indemnity..........................................87 Section 11.14. Schedules Incorporated.......................................88 Section 11.15. Offsets, Counterclaims and Defenses..........................88 Section 11.16. No Joint Venture or Partnership; No Third Party Beneficiaries.............................................88 Section 11.17. Publicity....................................................88 Section 11.18. Waiver of Marshalling of Assets..............................89 Section 11.19. Waiver of Offsets/Defenses/Counterclaims.....................89 Section 11.20. Conflict; Construction of Documents; Reliance................89 Section 11.21. Brokers and Financial Advisors...............................89 ii
Section 11.22. Exculpation..................................................90 Section 11.23. Prior Agreements.............................................92 Section 11.24. Servicer.....................................................92 Section 11.25. Duplicate Originals; Counterparts............................92 Section 11.26. Cross Collateralization......................................92 Section 11.27. Joint and Several Liability..................................93 iii
SCHEDULES Schedule I - Operating Leases Schedule II - Intentionally Deleted Schedule III - Borrowers, Fee Owners, Operators, Licensed Beds Schedule IV - Organizational Chart Schedule V - Allocated Loan Amount Schedule VI - Amortization Schedule VII - Intentionally deleted Schedule VIII - Guarantors Schedule IX - Insurance Claims Schedule X - Waivers of Physical Plant Standards Schedule XI - Pending Audits Schedule XII - Waivers in Connection with Licensed Beds Schedule XIII - Proceedings and Notices Schedule XIV - Enforcement Actions EXHIBITS Exhibit A - Payor Notice (Medicare and Medicaid Third Party Payors) Exhibit B - Interest Rate Cap Requirements Exhibit C - Form of Nonconsolidation Opinion Exhibit D - Material Agreements iv
LOAN AGREEMENT THIS LOAN AGREEMENT, dated as of November 1, 2002 (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Agreement"), among VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207 (together with its successors and assigns "Lender") and THOSE ENTITIES LISTED AS A "BORROWER" ON SCHEDULE III attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company and each having an address at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 (each, a "Borrower" and collectively, the "Borrowers"). All capitalized terms used herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in Article I hereof. W I T N E S S E T H : WHEREAS, Borrowers desire to obtain a loan in the maximum principal amount of $55,000,000 from Lender; and WHEREAS, Lender is willing to make the Loan to Borrower, subject to and in accordance with the conditions and terms of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree, represent and warrant as follows: ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS; PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION Section 1.1. Definitions. For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided: "Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement" means an interest rate cap agreement (together with the confirmation, definitions and schedules relating thereto) acceptable to Lender among Borrowers and a financial institution cap provider with a LIBOR strike price no higher than seven percent (7%) per annum and a notional amount equal to the Maximum Principal Loan Amount, and otherwise satisfying the requirements set forth on Exhibit B. "Account Collateral" means, collectively, the Collateral Accounts and all sums at any time held, deposited or invested therein, together with any interest or other earnings thereon, and all proceeds thereof (including proceeds of sales and other dispositions), whether accounts, general intangibles, chattel paper, deposit accounts, instruments, documents or securities. "Accreditation" means certification by a generally recognized independent agency or other organization that a facility fully complies with the standards set by such agency or organization for operation of such a facility.
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this Agreement, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other beneficial interests, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controls," "controlling" and "controlled" have the meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agreement" means this Loan Agreement, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Allocated Loan Amount" means the portion of the Loan Amount allocated to each Property as set forth on Schedule V, as such amounts shall be adjusted from time to time as hereinafter set forth. Upon each adjustment in the amount of Debt due to (A) a regular payment of monthly Debt Service pursuant to Section 2.3.1, each Allocated Loan Amount shall be decreased by an amount equal to the product of (i) the amount of such payment and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the applicable Allocated Loan Amount (prior to the adjustment in question) and the denominator of which is the total of all Allocated Loan Amounts (prior to the adjustment in question) or (B) an adjustment of the Loan Amount as a result of a reallocation of the aggregate principal balance of the Loan and the Mezzanine Loan pursuant to Section 2 of the Cooperation Agreement, each Allocated Loan Amount shall be decreased or increased by an amount equal to the product of (i) the amount by which the Loan Amount is to be decreased or increased in connection with a reallocation pursuant to Section 2 of the Cooperation Agreement and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the applicable Allocated Loan Amount (prior to the adjustment in question) and the denominator of which is the total of all Allocated Loan Amounts (prior to the adjustment in question). Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence to the contrary, when the Debt is reduced as the result of Lender's receipt of proceeds with respect to a Condemnation or Casualty affecting one hundred percent (100%) of a Property, the Allocated Loan Amount for such Property with respect to which the insurance proceeds or Award were received shall, at Lender's sole discretion, be reduced to zero (such Allocated Loan Amount prior to reduction being referred to as the "Withdrawn Allocated Amount"), and each other Allocated Loan Amount shall, if the Withdrawn Allocated Amount exceeds the proceeds (such excess being referred to as the "Proceeds Deficiency"), be increased by an amount equal to the product of (1) the Proceeds Deficiency and (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the applicable Allocated Loan Amount (prior to the adjustment in question) and the denominator of which is the aggregate of all of the Allocated Loan Amounts (prior to the adjustment in question) other than the Withdrawn Allocated Amount. "ALTA" means American Land Title Association, or any successor thereto. "Alteration Threshold" means (a) with respect to any Property, the greater of (i) five percent (5%) of the Allocated Loan Amount for such Property or (ii) $200,000 and (b) with respect to the Properties, two percent (2%) of the Loan Amount. "Annual Budget" means the operating and capital budget for the Properties on a combined basis and for each Property setting forth, in reasonable detail, (i) Borrowers' good faith estimate of the anticipated results of operations, including Operating Income, Operating Expenses, and Capital Expenditures for the applicable Fiscal Year and (ii) a breakdown of 2
projected Patient Revenues and other revenues of each Operator and its Affiliates itemized by payor type. "Assignment of Leases" means, with respect to each Property, that certain first priority Assignment of Leases and Rents and Contracts, dated as of the date hereof, from the applicable Borrower, as assignor, to Lender, as assignee, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and "Assignments of Leases and Rents" means all such instruments collectively. "Assisted Living Facility" means a residential or facility-based program that provides housing and supportive services, supervision, personalized assistance, health-related services or a combination thereof which meets the needs of individuals who are unable to perform or who need assistance in performing the activities of daily living, whether licensed as an assisted living facility, a residential care facility or adult care facility. "Assignment of Management Agreement" means that certain Assignment of Management Agreement and Subordination of Management Fees dated the date hereof among Borrowers, Manager and Lender, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and "Assignments of Management Agreements" means all such instruments collectively. "Award" means any compensation paid by any Governmental Authority in connection with a Condemnation in respect of all or any part of a Property. "Bankruptcy Code" means Title 11 of the United States Code entitled "Bankruptcy", as amended from time to time, and any successor statute or statutes and all rules and regulations from time to time promulgated thereunder, and any comparable foreign laws relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or creditors' rights. "Basic Carrying Costs" means, with respect to each Property, the sum of the following costs associated with such Property: (i) Taxes, (ii) Insurance Premiums and (iii) ground rents, if any. "Borrower" and "Borrowers" each has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement. "Borrower Party" means each Borrower and any entity which held any Regulatory Permit relating to any Property prior to transferring same to a Borrower. "Breakage Costs" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.8. "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday on which national banks are not open for general business in the State of New York or the State where the Cash Management Bank is located. "Capital Expenditure Reserve Account" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.6(a). 3
"Capital Expenditures" means, with respect to each Property, hard and soft costs incurred by any Borrower with respect to replacements and capital repairs made to the Property (including repairs to, and replacements of, structural components, roofs, building systems, parking garages and parking lots), in each case to the extent capitalized in accordance with GAAP and to the extent not paid for by Net Proceeds. "Cash Management Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(a). "Cash Management Agreement" means that certain Cash Management Agreement of even date herewith among Lender, Borrowers and Cash Management Bank, as the same may from time to time be modified, amended or replaced. "Cash Management Bank" means The Bank of New York, a New York banking institution, and any other Eligible Institution from time to time selected in accordance with Section 6.1(c). "Cash Management Event" means at any time the Debt Service Coverage Ratio falls below 1.35:1.00. "Cash Management Period" means the period of time commencing on the occurrence of a Cash Management Event and ending on the Payment Date following the date that the Debt Service Coverage Ratio is at or above 1.35:1.00 for two (2) consecutive quarters. "Casualty" means the occurrence of any casualty, damage or injury, by fire or otherwise, to a Property or any part thereof. "Casualty Consultant" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3.2(c). "Casualty Retainage" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3.2(d). "Closing Date" means the date of funding the Loan. "CMS" means the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly known as the Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA")). "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and as it may be further amended from time to time, any successor statutes thereto, and applicable U.S. Department of Treasury regulations issued pursuant thereto in temporary or final form. "Collateral Accounts" means, collectively, the Cash Management Account, the Collection Account, the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account, the Debt Service Account, the Net Proceeds Account, the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account, the Operating Expense Reserve Account, the Excess Cash Reserve Account and the Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account. "Collateral Assignment of Interest Rate Cap" means, that certain Collateral Assignment of Interest Rate Cap Agreement, dated the date hereof, from Borrowers, as assignors, to Lender, as assignee, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented 4
or otherwise modified from time to time and any other Collateral Assignment of Interest Rate Cap Agreement hereafter delivered. "Collection Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1. "Collection Account Agreement" means that certain Collection Account Agreement of even date herewith among Lender, Borrowers and Collection Account Bank, as the same may from time to time be modified, amended or replaced. "Collection Account Bank" means First Union National Bank or any other Eligible Institution from time to time selected in accordance with Section 6.1(c). "CON" means a certificate of need or similar permit or approval (not including conventional building permits) from a Governmental Authority related to the construction and/or operation of Improvements at any Property for use for a specified number of beds in a Nursing Facility, Assisted Living Facility and/or Specialty Hospital, or alteration of any such Improvements or modifications of services provided at a Property used as a Nursing Facility, Assisted Living Facility and/or Specialty Hospital. "Condemnation" means a temporary or permanent taking by any Governmental Authority as the result or in lieu or in anticipation of the exercise of the right of condemnation or eminent domain, of all or any part of a Property, or any interest therein or right accruing thereto, including any right of access thereto or any change of grade affecting the applicable Property or any part thereof. "Cooperation Agreement" means that certain Cooperation Agreement of even date herewith among Lender, Borrowers, Mezzanine Borrowers and Guarantors, as the same may from time to time be modified, amended or replaced. "Debt" means the outstanding principal amount of the Loan together with all interest accrued and unpaid thereon and all other sums (including, without limitation, the Spread Maintenance Premium, the Prepayment Fee payable pursuant to Section 2.4.1 hereof, any Breakage Costs and any of Lender's costs and expenses for which any Borrower is responsible under the terms of any of the Loan Documents) due to Lender in respect of the Loan under the Note, this Agreement, the Mortgages, the Environmental Indemnity or any other Loan Document. "Debt Constant" means eleven and thirty-three one hundredths percent (11.33%). "Debt Service" means, with respect to any particular period of time, scheduled principal and interest payments under the Note. "Debt Service Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4. "Debt Service Coverage Ratio" shall mean, for any twelve (12) calendar month period, the ratio of (i) the Pro Forma Net Operating Income for all Properties for such period immediately preceding the date of calculation to (ii) Debt Service plus the Mezzanine Debt Service for the twelve (12) calendar month period following the date of calculation assuming, as 5
to the Debt Service, an interest rate equal to the greater of the Debt Constant and the Interest Rate in effect on the date of such calculation. "Default" means the occurrence of any event hereunder or under any other Loan Document which, but for the giving of notice or passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default. "Default Rate" means, with respect to the Loan, a rate per annum equal to the lesser of (i) the Maximum Legal Rate, or (ii) four percent (4%) above the Interest Rate. "Deferred Maintenance Amount" means $179,456.25. "Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.7(a). "Deferred Maintenance Conditions" means those items described in the property condition reports delivered to Lender in connection with the Loan. "Disclosure Document" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(a). "Eligible Account" means a separate and identifiable account from all other funds held by the holding institution that is either (i) an account or accounts maintained with a federal or state-chartered depository institution or trust company which complies with the definition of Eligible Institution or (ii) a segregated trust account or accounts maintained with a federal or state chartered depository institution or trust company acting in its fiduciary capacity which, in the case of a state chartered depository institution or trust company is subject to regulations substantially similar to 12 C.F.R. (S) 9.10(b), having in either case a combined capital and surplus of at least fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) and subject to supervision or examination by federal and state authority. An Eligible Account will not be evidenced by a certificate of deposit, passbook or other instrument. "Eligible Institution" means a depository institution or trust company insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the short term unsecured debt obligations or commercial paper of which are rated at least A-1 by S&P, P-1 by Moody's, and F-1+ by Fitch in the case of accounts in which funds are held for thirty (30) days or less or, in the case of Letters of Credit or accounts in which funds are held for more than thirty (30) days, the long term unsecured debt obligations of which are rated at least "AA-" by Fitch and S&P and "Aa2" by Moody's. "Embargoed Person" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.37. "Environmental Indemnity" means that certain Environmental Indemnity Agreement dated as of the date hereof executed by Borrowers and Guarantors in connection with the Loan for the benefit of Lender. "Equipment" has the meaning set forth in the Granting Clause of the Mortgages. "ERISA" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2.11. 6
"Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.1. "Excess Cash Reserve Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.9(a). "Exchange Act" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(a). "Extension Fee" means one percent (1%) of the outstanding principal balance of the Loan as of the Maturity Date (or, with respect to the second one (1) year extension option, the Maturity Date as previously extended). "Fee Owner" means, with respect to a Property, the applicable Borrower identified as "owner" on Schedule III attached hereto, in its capacity as fee owner of such Property, or its successors or permitted assigns hereunder. "Fiscal Year" means each twelve (12) month period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 during each year of the term of the Loan. "Fitch" means Fitch, Inc. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or agencies with similar functions of comparable stature and authority within the accounting profession), or in such other statements by such entity as may be in general use by significant segments of the U.S. accounting profession. "Governmental Authority" means any court, board, agency, commission, office or authority of any nature whatsoever or any governmental unit (federal, state, county, district, municipal, city or otherwise) whether now or hereafter in existence, including, without limitation, CMS, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, any state licensing agency and/or any state Medicaid agency. "Guarantors" means, collectively, Trans Healthcare, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and each of its subsidiaries shown in the attached Schedule VIII and "Guarantor" shall mean each such entity. "Guaranty (Recourse Obligations)" means that certain Guaranty of Recourse Obligations of even date herewith from Guarantors for the benefit of Lender. "Improvements" has the meaning set forth in the Granting Clause of the Mortgages. "Indebtedness" means, for any Person, without duplication: (i) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, for amounts drawn under a letter of credit, or for the deferred purchase price of property for which such Person or its assets is liable, (ii) all unfunded amounts under a loan agreement, letter of credit, or other credit facility for which such Person would be liable if such amounts were advanced thereunder, (iii) all amounts required to be paid by such Person as a guaranteed payment to partners or a preferred or special dividend, including any 7
mandatory redemption of shares or interests, (iv) all Indebtedness of others guaranteed by such Person, directly or indirectly, (v) all obligations under leases that constitute capital leases for which such Person is liable, and (vi) all obligations of such Person under interest rate swaps, caps, floors, collars and other interest hedge agreements, in each case whether such Person is liable contingently or otherwise, as obligor, guarantor or otherwise, or in respect of which obligations such Person otherwise assures a creditor against loss. "Indemnified Liabilities" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.13(b). "Independent Director" means a duly appointed member of the board of directors (or with respect to a Single Member LLC, its board of managers) of the relevant entity who shall not have been, at the time of such appointment or at any time while serving as a director of the relevant entity and may not have been at any time in the preceding five (5) years, (a) a direct or indirect legal or beneficial owner in such entity or any of its affiliates, (b) a creditor, supplier, employee, officer, director, family member, manager, or contractor of such entity or any of its affiliates, or (c) a person who controls (whether directly, indirectly, or otherwise) such entity or its affiliates or any creditor, supplier, employee, officer, director, manager, or contractor of such entity or its affiliates. "Insolvency Opinion" means that certain bankruptcy nonconsolidation opinion letter substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C delivered by Kirkland & Ellis in connection with the Securitization, provided that the assumptions set forth in such form upon which such opinions are based are true and correct as of the date such opinion is to be delivered. "Insurance Premiums" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.1(b). "Interest Accrual Period" means, subject to the proviso in the definition of the defined term "Payment Date," each period of time running from and including the fifteenth (15th) day of a calendar month to and including the fourteenth (14th) day of the following calendar month during the term of the Loan. If the Closing Date shall occur prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of a calendar month, the first Interest Accrual Period shall commence on and include the Closing Date and end on and include the fourteenth (14th) day of the calendar month in which the Closing Date occurs. If the Closing Date shall occur after the fourteenth (14th) day of a calendar month, the first Interest Accrual Period shall commence on the Closing Date and end on and include the fourteenth (14th) day of the calendar month following the month in which the Closing Date occurs. If the Closing Date shall occur on the fourteenth (14th) day of a calendar month, the first Interest Accrual Period shall consist of a one (1) day period consisting of the Closing Date. "Interest Rate" means six percent (6%) per annum for the initial Interest Accrual Period and with respect to any subsequent Interest Accrual Period, an annual rate of interest that is the sum of (i) LIBOR on the applicable LIBOR Determination Date plus (ii) the Spread. Each determination by Lender of the Interest Rate shall be conclusive and binding absent manifest error. "Inventory" means all "inventory," as such term is defined in the UCC and, to the extent not included in such definition, any goods now owned or hereafter acquired by any Borrower intended for sale or lease, or to be used in connection with services furnished by any 8
Borrower in connection with any Property, including without limitation, all inventories held by each Borrower for sale or use at or from any Property, and all other such goods, wares, merchandise, and materials and supplies of every nature owned by any Borrower and all such other goods returned to or repossessed by any Borrower. "Lease" means any lease, sublease, sub-sublease or other agreement or arrangement affecting the use or occupancy of all or any portion of any Property now in effect or hereafter entered into (including, without limitation, any Operating Lease, patient admission and resident care agreement, letting, sublease, license, concession, tenancy or other occupancy agreement covering or encumbering all or any portion of such Property), together with any guarantee, supplement, amendment, modification, extension or renewal of the same, and any additional remainder, reversion, or other right and estate appurtenant thereto. "Legal Requirements" means, with respect to each Borrower and each Property, all federal, state, county, municipal and other governmental statutes, laws, rules, orders, regulations, guidelines, ordinances, judgments, decrees and injunctions of Governmental Authorities affecting such Borrower or such Property or any part thereof or the construction, use, alteration or operation thereof, or any part thereof, whether now or hereafter enacted and in force, including, without limitation, (i) the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, (ii) all zoning, subdivision and land use laws, regulations and ordinances, health, fire, building codes and parking laws, (iii) skilled nursing facility, residential care, personal care, adult care, boarding home and/or assisted living facility laws, rules, regulations and guidelines, including, without limitation, Medicare Regulations and Medicaid Regulations and (iv) any licensure requirements or certification requirements under applicable federal and/or state cost reimbursement programs, including, without limitation, Medicare and Medicaid, and all permits, licenses and authorizations and regulations relating thereto, and all covenants, agreements, restrictions and encumbrances contained in any instruments, either of record or known to any Borrower, at any time in force affecting such Property or any part thereof, including, without limitation, any which may (i) require repairs, modifications or alterations in or to such Property or any part thereof, or (ii) in any way limit the use and enjoyment thereof. "Lender" means Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, together with its successors and assigns. "Lender Indemnities" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.13(b). "Letter of Credit" means a clean, irrevocable, unconditional, transferable evergreen letter of credit with respect to which no Borrower has any reimbursement obligation, payable on sight draft only, in favor of Lender and entitling Lender to draw thereon in New York, New York, issued by an Eligible Institution. A Letter of Credit must expressly provide that (i) partial draws are permitted thereunder, (ii) it is freely transferable to any successor or assign of Lender without cost, and (iii) Lender is entitled to draw on it immediately and without further notice (a) upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Default or Event of Default, (b) if any Borrower fails to deliver to Lender, no less than thirty (30) days prior to the termination of a Letter of Credit (including any renewal or extension thereof), a renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit or a replacement Letter of Credit, or (c) if the issuing bank is 9
no longer an Eligible Institution and Borrowers fail to deliver to Lender a replacement Letter of Credit within ten (10) days of the date that the issuing bank is no longer an Eligible Institution. "Liabilities" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(b). "LIBOR" means, for each Interest Accrual Period, the rate for deposits in United States dollars for a one-month period which appears on the display designated as "Page 3750" on the Dow Jones Telerate Service (or such other page as may replace 3750 on that service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association as the information vendor for the purpose of displaying British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rates for U.S. dollar deposits) as of 11:00 a.m. London time on the LIBOR Determination Date. If no such rate appears on Telerate Page 3750 as described above, LIBOR for the applicable Interest Accrual Period will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in United States dollars are offered by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Lender (the "Reference Banks") at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the applicable LIBOR Determination Date to prime banks in the London interbank market for a one-month period (each a "Reference Bank Rates"). The Lender shall request the principal London office of each of the Reference Ban to provide a quotation of its Reference Bank Rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Interest Accrual Period will be the arithmetic mean of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Interest Accrual Period will be the arithmetic mean of the rates quoted by major banks in New York City, selected by the Lender, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date for loans in United States dollars to leading European banks for a one-month period. If, on any LIBOR Determination Date, the Lender is required but unable to determine LIBOR in the manner provided herein, LIBOR for the next Interest Accrual Period shall be LIBOR as determined on the previous LIBOR Determination Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall LIBOR be less than the LIBOR Floor Rate. "LIBOR Determination Date" means, with respect to any Interest Accrual Period and subject to the proviso in the definition of the term "Payment Date", the date that is two London Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Accrual Period. "LIBOR Floor Rate" means a rate equal to three percent (3%) per annum. "Lien" means, with respect to each Property, any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, security interest, or any other encumbrance, charge or transfer of, on or affecting such Property or any portion thereof or any Borrower or any interest therein, including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, the filing of any financing statement, and mechanic's, materialmen's and other similar liens and encumbrances. "Loan" means the loan made by Lender to Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement. "Loan Amount" shall mean the outstanding principal balance of the Loan, as the same may be increased or decreased as a result of the Re-sizing, prepayment or otherwise from time to time. 10
"Loan Documents" means, collectively, this Agreement, the Note, the Mortgages, the Assignments of Leases, the Cash Management Agreement, the Collection Account Agreement, the Guaranty (Recourse Obligations), Master Guaranty, the Environmental Indemnity, the Assignment of Management Agreement, the Collateral Assignment of Interest Rate Cap and any other document pertaining to the Properties as well as all other documents now or hereafter executed and/or delivered in connection with the Loan as such documents may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Lockout Date" means the date that is eighteen (18) months after the Re-sizing Date. "London Business Day" means any day on which commercial banks are open for business (including dealings in foreign exchange and foreign currency deposits) in London, England. "Management Agreement" means the Management Services Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Operators, as operator, and the Manager, as manager, pursuant to which such manager is to provide management and other services with respect to all of the Properties. "Manager" means Trans Health Management, Inc., a Delaware corporation , in its capacity as manager under the Management Agreement, or its successors or permitted assigns thereunder. "Maryland Borrowers" means each of the Borrowers that owns or leases a Property in the State of Maryland. "Maryland Staff Leasing Agreement" means the Staff Leasing Agreement dated the date hereof between certain of the Maryland Borrowers and the Ohio Staff Provider, as staff provider, pursuant to which the Maryland Staff Provider is to provide personnel for all the Properties located in the State of Maryland. "Maryland Staff Provider" means THI Services of Maryland, Inc., a Delaware corporation. "Master Guaranty" means that certain Master Guaranty, dated as of the date hereof, from the Guarantors to Lender, Mezzanine Lender and Sale/Leaseback Lessor, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Master Guaranty Pledge" means that certain Guarantor Pledge and Security Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, from the Guarantors to Lender, Mezzanine Lender and Sale/Leaseback Lessor, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect upon (i) the ability of any Borrower to perform, or of Lender to enforce, any material provision of any Loan Document, (ii) the enforceability of any material provision of any Loan Document, or (iii) the 11
value, Net Operating Income, use or enjoyment of any Property or the operation thereof. In determining whether any individual event would result in a Material Adverse Effect, notwithstanding that such event does not of itself have such effect, a Material Adverse Effect shall be deemed to have occurred if the cumulative effect of such event and all other then occurring events and existing conditions would result in a Material Adverse Effect. "Material Agreement" means each contract or agreement (including the Operating Lease) relating to the ownership, management, development, use, operation, leasing maintenance, repair or improvement of a Property, or otherwise imposing obligations on a Borrower, under which a Borrower would have the obligation to pay more than $50,000 per annum or which cannot be terminated by a Borrower without cause upon ninety (90) days notice or less without the payment of a termination fee. "Maturity Date" means November 15, 2005, as the same may be extended pursuant to Section 2.5 hereof, or such other date on which the final payment of principal of the Note becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at such stated maturity date, by declaration of acceleration, or otherwise. At Lender's option, the Maturity Date may be changed from November 15, 2005 to the Re-sizing Maturity Date in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement. "Maximum Legal Rate" means the maximum nonusurious interest rate, if any, that at any time or from time to time may be contracted for, taken, reserved, charged or received on the indebtedness evidenced by the Note and as provided for herein or the other Loan Documents, under the laws of such state or states whose laws are held by any court of competent jurisdiction to govern the interest rate provisions of the Loan. "Maximum Loan Amount" means $55,000,000. "Medicaid" means that certain program of medical assistance, funded jointly by the federal government and the states for impoverished individuals who are aged, blind and/or disabled, and for members of families with dependent children, which program is more fully described in Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. "Medicaid Certification" means, with respect to any Person, health care facility, or Nursing Facility, certification by CMS or a state agency or entity under contract with CMS that such Person, facility or Nursing Facility, as applicable, complies with the conditions of participation set forth in Medicaid Regulations or any similar certification issued by CMS or a state agency. "Medicaid Regulations" means, collectively, (i) all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (S)(S) 1396 et seq.) or elsewhere) affecting the medical assistance program established by Title XIX of the Social Security Act; (ii) all applicable provisions of all federal rules, regulations, manuals, orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities (whether or not having the force of law) promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (i) above; (iii) all state statutes enacted and all state plans for medical assistance, and state plan 12
amendments filed by the state with CMS in connection with the statutes and provisions described in clauses (i) and (ii) above; and (iv) all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals, orders and administrative, reimbursement, and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities (whether or not having the force of law) promulgated pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing, in each case as may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Medicare" means that certain federal program providing health insurance for eligible elderly and other individuals, under which physicians, hospitals, Nursing Facilities, home health care and other providers are reimbursed for certain covered services they provide to the beneficiaries of such program, which program is more fully described in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (S)(S) 1395 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. "Medicare Certification" means, with respect to any Person, health care facility, or Nursing Facility, certification by CMS or a state agency or entity under contract with CMS that such Person, facility or Nursing Facility, as applicable, complies with the conditions of participation set forth in Medicare Regulations or any similar certification issued by CMS or a state agency. "Medicare Regulations" means, collectively, all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (S)(S) 1395 et seq.) or elsewhere) affecting the health insurance program for the aged and disabled established by Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, together with all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals, orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities promulgated pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing (whether or not having the force of law), as each may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Mezzanine Borrowers" means, collectively, THI of Ohio SNFs, LLC, THI of Ohio ALFs I, LLC, THI of Maryland SNFs I, LLC, THI of Maryland SNFs II, LLC, THI of Maryland at Franklin Square, LLC, THI of Maryland at Fort Washington, LLC, THI of Ohio at Kent, LLC, THI of Ohio at Cortland, LLC and THI of Ohio at Berea, LLC, each a Delaware limited liability company and "Mezzanine Borrower" means each such entity individually. "Mezzanine Cash Management Account" means that certain cash management account established pursuant to the terms of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement. "Mezzanine Cash Management Period" means the "Cash Management Period" as defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement. "Mezzanine Debt Service" means, with respect to any particular period of time, scheduled principal and interest payments under the Mezzanine Loan. "Mezzanine Lender " means Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and its successors and assigns. "Mezzanine Loan" means that certain loan in the original principal amount of Twenty Two Million and No/100 Dollars ($22,000,000) of even date herewith made by Mezzanine Lender to Mezzanine Borrowers, together with any permitted refinancing thereof. 13
"Mezzanine Loan Agreement" means that certain Mezzanine Loan Agreement of even date herewith among Mezzanine Borrowers, as borrowers and Mezzanine Lender, as lender, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Mezzanine Payment Date" means the "Payment Date" as defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement. "Monthly Capital Expenditure Reserve Amount" means $35,050. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. "Mortgage" means, (a) with respect to each Property located in the State of Ohio, a first priority Open-Ended Fee and Leasehold Mortgage and Security Agreement or (b) with respect to each Property located in the State of Maryland, a first priority Deed of Trust and Security Agreement, or similar security instrument, dated the date hereof, executed and delivered by a Borrower as security for the Loan and encumbering such Property, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and "Mortgages" means all such instruments collectively. "Net Operating Income" means, for any period, the amount by which Operating Income exceed Operating Expenses. "Net Proceeds" means: (i) the net amount of all insurance proceeds payable as a result of a Casualty to a Property, after deduction of reasonable costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees), if any, in collecting such insurance proceeds and taxes, if any, payable by a Borrower with respect to such proceeds, or (ii) the net amount of the Award, after deduction of reasonable costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees), if any, in collecting such Award and taxes, if any, payable by a Borrower with respect to such proceeds. "Net Proceeds Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8(a). "Net Proceeds Deficiency" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3.2(f). "Note" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.3. "Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.6. "Nursing Facility" means a facility (including any Alzheimer's or dementia care unit of sub acute unit), which offers nonacute inpatient care to patients who suffer from a disease, chronic illness, or disability requiring nursing care without continuous hospital services, and who require medical services and nursing services rendered by or under the supervision of a licensed medical professional, together with convalescent or restorative services now or hereafter located on a Property. "Officer's Certificate" means a certificate delivered to Lender by a Borrower which is signed by an authorized senior officer of such Borrower. 14
"Ohio Borrowers" means each of the Borrowers that owns or leases a Property in Ohio. "Ohio Staff Leasing Agreement" means the Staff Leasing Agreement, dated the date hereof, between certain of the Ohio Borrowers and the Ohio Staff Provider, as staff provider, pursuant to which the Ohio Staff Provider is to provide personnel for all the Properties located in the State of Ohio. "Ohio Staff Provider" means THI Services Corp., a Delaware corporation. "Operating Expense Reserve Account" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.5(a). "Operating Expenses" means, with respect to a Property (or the Properties) and without duplication, all costs and expenses incurred by a Borrower determined on an accrual basis, relating to the operation, maintenance, repair, use and management of such Property (or the Properties), including, without limitation, utilities, repairs and maintenance, insurance, property taxes and assessments, advertising expenses, payroll and related taxes, equipment lease payments, actual management fees but excluding (i) rent payments made by any Operator under an Operating Lease and principal, interest and other payments made by a Borrower under the Loan Documents, (ii) depreciation, amortization and other non-cash expenses of the Properties; provided, however, such costs and expenses shall be subject to reasonable adjustment by Lender to normalize such costs and expenses and (iii) capital expenditures. "Operating Income" means, without duplication, all revenue derived from the ownership and/or operation of a Property (or Properties) by any Borrower (other than Rents received from any Operator under any Operating Lease) from whatever source determined on an accrual basis, including, but not limited to, (i) Rents, including, but not limited to, Patient Revenues received by any Operator or by any subtenant or licensee which is an Affiliate of any Operator (but excluding any revenues received by any subtenant or licensee which is not an Affiliate of any Operator) and (ii) Rents received by any Operator from any subtenant or licensee which is not an Affiliate of any Operator (but excluding any rents received from any subtenant or licensee which is an Affiliate of any Operator); but excluding (a) sales, use and occupancy or other taxes on receipts required to be accounted for by any Borrower to any governmental authority, (b) non-recurring revenues as reasonably determined by Lender (e.g. proceeds from a sale of assets or refinancing), (c) security deposits (except to the extent determined by Lender to be properly utilized to offset a loss of rent received by any Operator), (d) proceeds of casualty insurance and condemnation awards (other than business interruption or other loss of income insurance related to business interruption or loss of income for the period in question) and (e) any proceeds from the sale or refinancing of any Property or recapitalization of any Borrower. In addition, if required by Lender, income accrued but not paid in cash during an accounting period shall be adjusted for an allowance for doubtful accounts in a manner consistent with historical net realizable value. "Operating Lease" means, with respect to each Property, the Operating Lease Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the applicable Fee Owner, as lessor, and the 15
applicable Operator, as lessee, as the same may be modified or amended from time to time in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. "Operator" means, with respect to a Property, the applicable Borrower identified as "operator" on Schedule III attached hereto (if any), in its capacity as: (i) the licensee entitled to deliver health care services at such Property, (ii) as the provider under all Third Party Payor Programs, including, but not limited to, Medicare and Medicaid and (iii) as the lessee under the applicable Operating Lease, or its successors or permitted assigns thereunder. "Other Charges" means all ground rents, maintenance charges, impositions other than Taxes, and any other charges, including, without limitation, vault charges and license fees for the use of vaults, chutes and similar areas adjoining the Properties, now or hereafter levied or assessed or imposed against the Properties or any part thereof. "Other Taxes" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.3.6. "Parent" means Trans Healthcare, Inc., a Delaware corporation "Patient Revenues" means revenues generated from the sale of goods or services at or through the Properties, whether by an Operator or any subtenant or licensee of such Operator, or any other party, which revenues are primarily derived from services provided to patients (including, without limitation, revenues received or receivable for the use of or otherwise by reason of all rooms, beds and other facilities provided, meals served, services performed or goods sold at the Properties), including but not limited to, Self-Pay Receivables and all other income, consideration, issues, accounts, profits or benefits of any nature arising from the ownership, possession, use or operation of such Property, including, without limitation, all rights to payment from the Medicare and Medicaid programs or similar state or federal programs, boards, bureaus or agencies (to the extent legally assignable under applicable law) and rights to payment from patients or private insurers, arising from the operation of such Property and all revenues, receipts, income, receivables and accounts relating to or arising from rentals, rent equivalent income, income and profits from guest rooms, meeting rooms, food and beverage facilities, vending machines, telephone and television systems, guest laundry, and the provision or sale of other goods and services. "Payment Date" means the fifteenth (15th) day of every calendar month occurring during the term of the Loan; provided, however, in connection with a Securitization of the Loan, Lender may change the Payment Date, the LIBOR Determination Date and the Interest Accrual Period. Each Borrower shall promptly execute an amendment to this Agreement to evidence any such change and any necessary amendment to the Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement as approved by the Lender and the Rating Agencies. "Payor Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(b). "Permitted Debt" means as to a Property or Borrower (x) (i) unsecured trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business relating to the ownership and operation of such Property which are paid within ninety (90) days of the date incurred and (ii) financing of Equipment or vehicles used in the ordinary course of operating and owning a Property (including capitalized leases of such Equipment and vehicles) and (y) which unsecured trade payables and 16
financing do not exceed at any one time an aggregate amount as to all Borrowers and their Properties on an aggregate basis of $3,500,000. "Permitted Encumbrances" means, with respect to each Property, collectively, (i) the Liens and security interests created by the Loan Documents, (ii) all Liens, encumbrances and other matters disclosed in the Title Insurance Policies relating to such Property or any part thereof, (iii) Liens, if any, for Taxes imposed by any Governmental Authority not yet due or delinquent, (iv) such other title and survey exceptions as Lender has approved or may approve in writing in Lender's sole discretion, none of which adversely affect the use, value or operation of such Property, (v) Liens on the Equipment or vehicles used in the ordinary course of business of operating and owning such Property which are the subject of a financing of such Equipment or vehicles (including capitalized leases of such Equipment or vehicles) which financing complies with the terms of the definition of the term "Permitted Debt" and (vi) the Operating Lease and the Leases consisting of Borrowers' standard form patient admission and resident care agreements. "Permitted Investments" has the meaning set forth in the Cash Management Agreement. "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, unincorporated association, any other entity, any federal, state, county or municipal government or any bureau, department or agency thereof and any fiduciary acting in such capacity on behalf of any of the foregoing. "Physical Plant Standards" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.40(g). "Policies" has the meaning specified in Section 5.1.1(b). "Prepayment Fee" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.1. "Prepayment Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.1. "Pro Forma Net Operating Income" means with respect to a Property, Net Operating Income for any period for such Property adjusted as follows: (i) if the actual occupancy percentage of such Property is greater than ninety-five percent (95%), Operating Income for such Property shall be reduced by the product of (1) the difference between the actual occupancy percentage of such Property and ninety-five percent (95%) times (2) the Operating Income for such Property, (ii) Operating Income for such Property shall be reduced by (x) a bad debt expense for such Property equal to the greater of (A) the actual bad debt expense and (B) six-tenths of one percent (0.6%) of Operating Income for such Property for such period (after deducting the vacancy factor as calculated above, if any); (y) a management fee for such Property equal to the greater of (A) the actual management fee and (B) five percent (5%) of Operating Income for such Property for such period (after deducting any vacancy factor and for bad debt expenses as calculated above, as applicable); (z) a reserve for Capital Expenditures equal to $300 per annum per licensed bed at each Property consisting of a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility and for each Property which does not constitute a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility such per bed per annum amount as reasonably determined by the Lender; provided, however, that Lender may further adjust Pro Forma Net Operating Income as 17
Lender deems reasonably necessary based upon the occurrence of tangible events that Lender reasonably determines may have a material effect on any Borrower or Property. "Property" means each parcel of real property, the Improvements thereon and all personal property owned by any Borrower and encumbered by a Mortgage, together with all rights pertaining to such property and Improvements, all as more particularly described in the Granting Clauses of such Mortgage, and "Properties" means all such parcels and other properties collectively. "Qualified Equity Transferee" means an entity (i) with a minimum of five (5) years experience operating Nursing Facilities, Assisted Living Facilities and/or Specialty Hospitals similar to the Properties in the jurisdictions in which the Properties are located with a minimum of 1,000 beds in such facilities, (ii) which entity makes representations and warranties as reasonably requested by Lender as to such entity's operations but shall at a minimum make such representations and warranties substantially similar to those set forth in Article III hereof and (iii) as to which a Rating Agency Confirmation is delivered. "Rating Agencies" means, prior to the final Securitization of the Loan, each of S&P, Moody's and Fitch or any other nationally-recognized statistical rating agency which has been designated by Lender and, after the final Securitization of the Loan, shall mean any of the foregoing that have rated any of the Securities. "Rating Agency Confirmation" means a written affirmation from each of the Rating Agencies that the credit rating of the Securities rated by such Rating Agency immediately prior to the occurrence of the event with respect to which such Rating Agency Confirmation is sought will not be qualified, downgraded or withdrawn as a result of the occurrence of such event, which affirmation may be granted or withheld in such Rating Agency's sole and absolute discretion. "Re-sizing" has the meaning set forth in the Cooperation Agreement. "Re-sizing Date" means the earlier of (i) the Payment Date upon which the Re-sizing shall occur or (ii) February 15, 2003. "Re-sizing Maturity Date" means the date that is the third anniversary of the Re-sizing Date. "Reference Bank Rate" has the meaning set forth in the definition of LIBOR. "Reference Banks" has the meaning set forth in the definition of LIBOR "Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(b). "Regulatory Permits" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.40(b). "Reimbursement Contracts" means all third party reimbursement contracts for the Properties which are now or hereafter in effect with respect to residents or patients qualifying for coverage under the same, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and private 18
insurance agreements, and any successor program or other similar reimbursement program and/or private insurance agreements. "Rents" means, with respect to each Property, (x) all receipts, rents (whether denoted as advance rent, minimum rent, percentage rent, additional rent or otherwise), issues, income, royalties, profits, revenues (including, without limitation, Patient Revenues and Self-Pay Receivables), proceeds, bonuses, deposits (whether denoted as security deposits, utility deposits or otherwise), lease termination fees or payments, rejection damages, buy-out fees and any other fees made or to be made in lieu of rent, any award made hereafter to any Borrower in any court proceeding involving any tenant, lessee, licensee or concessionaire under any of the Leases in any bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization proceedings in any state or federal court, and all other payments, rights and benefits of whatever nature from time to time due under any of the Leases, including, without limitation, rights to payment earned under the Leases for space in the Improvements for the operation of ongoing businesses, such as restaurants, news stands, barber shops, beauty shops and pharmacies; provided, however, "Rents" shall not include "patient trust accounts" or "patient needs funds." "Restoration" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2.1. "Restoration Threshold" means (a) with respect to any Property, the greater of (i) five percent (5%) of the Allocated Loan Amount for such Property or (ii) $200,000 and (b) with respect to the Properties, two percent (2%) of the Loan Amount. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. "Sale/Leaseback Lessor" means Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, in its capacity as lessor under the Lease Documents (as defined in the Master Guaranty). "SAP Completion Date" has the meaning set forth in the Cooperation Agreement. "Secondary Market Transaction" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1(a). "Securities" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1(a). "Securities Act" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(a). "Securitization" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1(a). "Self-Pay Receivables" means those receivables whereby an individual or resident of a Property is the payor of such receivables. "Servicer" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.24. "Servicing Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.24. "Severed Loan Documents" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.2(c). 19
"Single Member LLC" means a limited liability company that (i) is either (a) a single member limited liability company or (b) a multiple member limited liability company that does not have a Single-Purpose Entity that owns at least 1% of the equity interests in such limited liability company as its managing member, and (ii) is organized under the laws of the State of Delaware. "Single-Purpose Entity" means a corporation, limited partnership, or limited liability company which, at all times since its formation and thereafter (i) was and will be organized solely for the purpose of (x) owning or operating the applicable Property or (y) acting as the managing member of the limited liability company which owns or operates a Property or (z) acting as the general partner of a limited partnership which owns or operates a Property, (ii) has not and will not engage in any business unrelated to (x) the ownership or operation of the applicable Property or (y) acting as a member of a limited liability company which owns or operates such Property or (z) acting as a general partner of a limited partnership which owns or operates such Property, (iii) has not and will not have any assets other than (x) those related to the applicable Property or (y) its memberbership interest in the limited liability company which owns or operates such Property or (z) its general partnership interest in the limited partnership which owns or operates such Property, as applicable, (iv) has not and will not engage in, seek or consent to any dissolution, winding up, liquidation, consolidation or merger, and, except as otherwise expressly permitted by this Agreement, has not and will not engage in, seek or consent to any asset sale, transfer of partnership or membership or shareholder interests, or amendment of its limited partnership agreement, articles of incorporation, articles of organization, certificate of formation or operating agreement (as applicable), (v) if such entity is a limited partnership, has and will have as its only general partners, general partners which are and will be Single-Purpose Entities which are corporations, (vi) if such entity is a corporation, at all relevant times, has and will have at least two Independent Directors, (vii) the board of directors of such entity has not taken and will not take any action requiring the unanimous affirmative vote of one hundred percent (100%) of the members of the board of directors unless all of the directors, including without limitation all Independent Directors, shall have participated in such vote, (viii) has not and will not fail to correct any known misunderstanding regarding the separate identity of such entity, (ix) if such entity is a limited liability company, is either a Single Member LLC or has and will have at least one member that is and will be a Single-Purpose Entity which is and will be a corporation, and such corporation is and will be the managing member of such limited liability company, (x) without the unanimous consent of all of the partners, directors or managers (including without limitation all Independent Directors) or members, as applicable, has not and will not with respect to itself or to any other entity in which it has a direct or indirect legal or beneficial ownership interest (w) file a bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization petition or otherwise institute insolvency proceedings or otherwise seek any relief under any laws relating to the relief from debts or the protection of debtors generally; (x) seek or consent to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator, custodian or any similar official for such entity or all or any portion of such entity's properties; (y) make any assignment for the benefit of such entity's creditors; or (z) take any action that might cause such entity to become insolvent, (xi) has maintained and will maintain its accounts, books and records separate from any other person or entity (except that, for accounting and reporting purposes, each Borrower may be included in the consolidated financial statements of any equity owner of such Borrower in accordance with GAAP provided that such financials will contain detailed notes stating that such entity is a separate legal entity that owns its own assets and has creditors that 20
have a security interest in such assets and that, as to each Fee Owner, the applicable Property has been sold to such Fee Owner), (xii) has maintained and will maintain its books, records, resolutions and agreements as official records, (xiii) has not commingled and will not commingle its funds or assets with those of any other entity, (xiv) has held and will hold its assets in its own name, (xv) has conducted and will conduct its business in its name, (xvi) has maintained and will maintain its financial statements, accounting records and other entity documents separate from any other person or entity (except that, for accounting and reporting purposes, each Borrower may be included in the consolidated financial statements of any equity owner of such Borrower in accordance with GAAP), (xvii) has paid and will pay its own liabilities out of its own funds and assets, (xviii) has observed and will observe all partnership, corporate or limited liability company formalities as applicable, (xix) has maintained and will maintain an arms-length relationship with its affiliates, (xx) if (x) such entity owns or operates a Property, has and will have no Indebtedness other than (A) the Debt and (B) Permitted Debt, or (y) such entity acts as the general partner of a limited partnership which owns or operates such Property, has and will have no indebtedness other than unsecured trade payables in the ordinary course of business relating to acting as general partner of the limited partnership which owns or operates such Property which (1) do not exceed, at any time, Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) and (2) are paid within ninety (90) days of the date incurred, or (z) such entity acts as a managing member of a limited liability company which owns or operates such Property, has and will have no indebtedness other than unsecured trade payables in the ordinary course of business relating to acting as a member of the limited liability company which owns or operates such Property which (1) do not exceed, at any time, Ten Thousand Dollars ( $10,000.00) and (2) are paid within ninety (90) days of the date incurred, (xxi) has not and will not assume or guarantee or become obligated for the debts of any other entity or hold out its credit as being available to satisfy the obligations of any other entity except for the Debt, (xxii) has not acquired and will not acquire obligations or securities of its partners, members or shareholders, (xxiii) has allocated and will allocate fairly and reasonably shared expenses, including, without limitation, shared office space and use separate stationery, invoices and checks and has and will maintain office space separate from any other entity (which may be a separately identified area in office space shared with one or more entity) and maintain a separate sign in the office directory, (xxiv) except for the Liens granted pursuant to the Loan Documents, has not and will not pledge its assets for the benefit of any other person or entity, (xxv) has held and identified itself and will hold itself out and identify itself as a separate and distinct legal entity under its own name and not as a division or part of any other person or entity so as not to mislead others with whom it is dealing (except that, for accounting and reporting purposes, each Borrower may be included in the consolidated financial statements of any equity owner of such Borrower in accordance with GAAP provided that such financials will contain detailed notes stating that such entity is a separate legal entity that owns its own assets and has creditors that have a security interest in such assets and that, as to each Fee Owner, the applicable Property has been sold to such Fee Owner), (xxvi) has not made and will not make loans to any person or entity, (xxvii) has not and will not identify its partners, members or shareholders, or any affiliates of any of them as a division or part of it, (xxviii) if such entity is a limited liability company (other than a Single Member LLC), such entity shall dissolve only upon the bankruptcy of the managing member, and such entity's articles of organization, certificate of formation and/or operating agreement, as applicable, shall contain such provision, (xxiv) has not entered and will not enter into or be a party to, any transaction with its partners, members, shareholders or its affiliates except in the ordinary course of its business and on terms 21
which are intrinsically fair and are no less favorable to it than would be obtained in a comparable arms-length transaction and on a commercially reasonably basis with an unrelated third party, (xxx) has paid and will pay the salaries of its own employees from its own funds and has and will maintain a sufficient number of employees in light of its contemplated business operations, (xxxi) has maintained and will maintain adequate capital in light of its contemplated business operations (xxxii) if such entity is a limited liability company (other than a Single Member LLC) or limited partnership, and such entity has one or more managing members or general partners, as applicable, then such entity shall continue (and not dissolve) for so long as a solvent managing member or general partner, as applicable, exists and such entity's organizational documents shall contain such provision; (xxxiii) if such entity is a Single Member LLC, its organizational documents shall provide that, as long as any portion of the Debt remains outstanding, upon the occurrence of any event that causes the sole member of such Single Member LLC to cease to be a member of such Single Member LLC (other than (y) upon an assignment by such member of all of its limited liability company interest in such Single Member LLC and the admission of the transferee, if permitted pursuant to the organizational documents of such Single Member LLC and the Loan Documents, or (z) the resignation of such member and the admission of an additional member of such Single Member LLC, if permitted pursuant to the organizational documents of such Single Member LLC and the Loan Documents) at least one individual acting as an Independent Director of such Single Member LLC shall, without any action of any Person and simultaneously with the sole member of the Single Member LLC ceasing to be a member of the Single Member LLC, automatically be admitted as the sole member of the Single Member LLC (the "Special Member") and shall preserve and continue the existence of the Single Member LLC without dissolution; (xxxiv) if such entity is a Single Member LLC, its organizational documents shall provide that for so long as any Obligation is outstanding, no Special Member may resign or transfer its rights as Special Member unless (y) a successor Special Member has been admitted to such Single Member LLC as a Special Member, and (z) such successor Special Member has also accepted its appointment as an Independent Director; and (xxxv) has and shall maintain its assets in a manner that will not be costly or difficult to segregate, ascertain or identify its individual assets for those of any other entity. "Special Member" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Single-Purpose Entity. "Specialty Hospital" means a facility that is operated as a special hospital for providing specialized services, including but not limited to rehabilitation services, on an inpatient basis. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Specialty Hospital" shall include "rehabilitation hospital" and "long-term acute care hospital" as those terms are defined under applicable Medicare Regulations. "Spread" means three hundred (300) basis points; provided, the Spread shall be (i) four hundred (400) basis points commencing on December 1, 2002 if the SAP Completion Date shall not have occurred on or prior to November 30, 2002, (ii) five hundred (500) basis points commencing on January 1, 2003 if the SAP Completion Date shall not have occurred on or prior to December 31, 2002 and (iii) six hundred (600) basis points commencing on February 1, 2003 if the SAP Completion Date shall not have occurred on or prior to January 31, 2003. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon completion of the Securitization Accounting Procedures, 22
commencing on the Payment Date first occurring after such completion, the Spread shall be three hundred (300) basis points. "Spread Maintenance Premium" means, if all or any portion of the Note is prepaid (other than a permitted prepayment hereunder) or accelerated, an amount equal to the present value, discounted at LIBOR on the most recent LIBOR Determination Date, of all future installments of interest which would have been due hereunder through and including the Lockout Date on the portion of the outstanding principal balance of the Loan being prepaid as if interest accrued on such portion of the principal balance being prepaid at an interest rate per annum equal to the Spread; provided, however, under no circumstances shall the Spread Maintenance Premium be less than four percent (4%) of the principal amount of the Loan being repaid. The calculation of the Spread Maintenance Premium shall be made by Lender and shall, absent manifest error, be final, conclusive and binding upon all parties. "Staff Leasing Agreement" means the Ohio Staff Leasing Agreement or the Maryland Staff Leasing Agreement, as the case may be. "Staff Provider" means the Ohio Staff Provider or the Maryland Staff Provider, as the case may be. "State" means, with respect to a Property, the State or Commonwealth in which such Property or any part thereof is located. "Tax and Insurance Escrow Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3(a). "Taxes" means all real estate and personal property taxes, assessments, water rates or sewer rents, now or hereafter levied or assessed or imposed against any of the Properties or part thereof, together with all interest and penalties thereon. "Third Party Payor" means any state, federal or municipal boards, bureaus, corporations or agencies and any private commercial insurers remitting payments to any Borrower pursuant to Medicare, Medicaid, Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield or other insurance, health plan, managed care or employee assistance programs. "Third Party Payor Programs" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.40(e). "Title Insurance Policy" means, with respect to each Property, an ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy in the form reasonably acceptable to Lender issued with respect to such Property and insuring the lien of the Mortgage encumbering such Property. "Transfer" means any voluntary or involuntary sale, conveyance, mortgage, grant, bargain, encumbrance, pledge, assignment, or transfer of: (a) all or any part of a Property or the Properties or any estate or interest therein including, but not be limited to, (i) an installment sales agreement wherein any Borrower agrees to sell a Property or the Properties or any part thereof for a price to be paid in installments, (ii) an agreement by any Borrower leasing all or a substantial part of a Property or the Properties, for other than actual occupancy by a tenant (other than the Operator pursuant to the Operating Lease) thereunder and its affiliates or (iii) a sale, assignment or other transfer of, or the grant of a security interest in, any Borrower's right, title 23
and interest in and to any Leases or any Rents; or (b) any ownership interest in (i) any Borrower or any Guarantor or (ii) any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other Person owning, directly or indirectly, any interest in any Borrower or any Guarantor. "Trustee" means any trustee holding the Loan in a Securitization. "UCC" or "Uniform Commercial Code" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State. "Underwriter Group" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(b). "Updated Information" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1(b)(i). "U.S. Obligations" means direct full faith and credit obligations of the United States of America that are not subject to prepayment, call or early redemption. "U.S. Person" means a United States person within the meaning of Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code. "U.S. Tax" means any present or future tax, assessment or other charge or levy imposed by or on behalf of the United States of America or any taxing authority thereof. "Ventas Group" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(b). Section 1.2. Principles of Construction. All references to sections and schedules are to sections and schedules in or to this Agreement unless otherwise specified. Unless otherwise specified, the words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, all meanings attributed to defined terms herein shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms so defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronouns used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns and pronouns shall include the plural and vice versa. ARTICLE II. THE LOAN Section 2.1. The Loan. 2.1.1. Agreement to Lend and Borrow. Subject to and upon the terms and conditions set forth herein, Lender shall make the Loan to Borrowers and Borrowers shall accept the Loan from Lender on the Closing Date. 2.1.2. Single Disbursement to Borrowers. Borrowers shall receive only one borrowing hereunder in respect of the Loan and any amount borrowed and repaid hereunder in respect of the Loan may not be reborrowed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties acknowledge that the Loan Amount may be increased or decreased as a result of the Re-sizing. 24
2.1.3. The Note. The Loan shall be evidenced by that certain Promissory Note of even date herewith, in the maximum principal amount of Fifty Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($55,000,000) executed by Borrowers and payable to the order of Lender in evidence of the Loan (as the same may hereafter be amended, supplemented, restated, componitized, split, increased, extended or consolidated, the "Note") and shall be repaid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Note. 2.1.4. Use of Proceeds. Borrowers shall use proceeds of the Loan to (i) pay and discharge any existing loans relating to certain of the Properties and to acquire certain of the Properties, (ii) pay all past-due Basic Carrying Costs, if any, in respect of the Properties, (iii) deposit the initial required amounts into the Collateral Accounts, (iv) pay costs and expenses incurred in connection with the closing of the Loan, including, but not limited to, Lender's costs and expenses, all as approved by Lender, (v) fund any working capital requirements of the Properties, as approved by Lender and (vi) pay any recoupment of deposits or expenses in connection with the acquisition of any of the Properties or in any failed financing in the past nine (9) months. Section 2.2. Interest Rate. 2.2.1. Interest Rate. Interest on the outstanding principal balance of the Loan shall accrue from the Closing Date up to but excluding the Maturity Date at the Interest Rate. 2.2.2. Default Rate. In the event that, and for so long as, any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the outstanding principal balance of the Loan and, to the extent permitted by law, overdue interest in respect of the Loan, shall accrue interest at the Default Rate, calculated from the date on which the default which gave rise to the Event of Default occurred without regard to any grace or cure periods contained herein. 2.2.3. Interest Calculation. Interest on the outstanding principal balance of the Loan shall be calculated by multiplying (a) the actual number of days elapsed in the applicable Interest Accrual Period by (b) a daily rate based on a three hundred sixty (360) day year (that is, the Interest Rate or the Default Rate, as the case may be, divided by three hundred sixty (360)) by (c) the outstanding principal balance. 2.2.4. Usury Savings. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents are subject to the express condition that at no time shall Borrowers be required to pay interest on the principal balance of the Loan at a rate which could subject Lender to either civil or criminal liability as a result of being in excess of the Maximum Legal Rate. If by the terms of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, any Borrower is at any time required or obligated to pay interest on the principal balance due hereunder at a rate in excess of the Maximum Legal Rate, the Interest Rate or the Default Rate, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be immediately reduced to the Maximum Legal Rate and all previous payments in excess of the Maximum Legal Rate shall be deemed to have been payments in reduction of principal and not on account of the interest due hereunder. All sums paid or agreed to be paid to Lender for the use, forbearance, or detention of the sums due under the Loan, shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be amortized, prorated, allocated, and spread throughout the full stated term of the Loan until payment in full so that the rate or amount of interest on account of the Loan does 25
not exceed the Maximum Legal Rate from time to time in effect and applicable to the Loan for so long as the Loan is outstanding. Section 2.3. Loan Payments. 2.3.1. Payment Before Maturity Date. Borrowers shall make a payment to Lender of interest only on the Closing Date for the period from the Closing Date through the last day of the Interest Accrual Period in which the Closing Date occurs (unless the Closing Date is the fifteenth (15th) day of a calendar month, in which case no such separate payment of interest shall be due) (the "Stub Interest Payment"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Lender will waive the requirement of payment of the Stub Interest Payment on the Closing Date and the Borrowers hereby agree and covenant to pay the Stub Interest Payment on November 15, 2002. Borrowers shall make a payment to Lender of monthly interest on the Loan on the Payment Date occurring in December, 2002 and on each Payment Date thereafter to and including the Maturity Date. Together with each monthly payment of interest, Borrowers shall make a payment of principal to Lender in the amount set forth on the amortization schedule attached hereto as Schedule VI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Re-sizing or adjustment in the Loan Amount shall have occurred pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, Borrowers shall make a payment of principal to Lender in the amount set forth on any replacement amortization schedule hereafter delivered in connection with such Re-sizing or adjustment. All payments to Lender by Borrowers under this Loan Agreement shall be made by wire transfer of funds to an account designated by Lender. 2.3.2. Payment on Maturity Date. Borrowers shall pay to Lender on the Maturity Date the outstanding principal balance of the Loan, all accrued and unpaid interest and all other amounts due hereunder and under the Note, the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents. 2.3.3. Late Payment Charge. If any principal, interest or any other sum due under the Loan Documents (excluding the principal payment due on the Maturity Date) is not paid by any Borrower on the date on which it is due, Borrowers shall pay to Lender upon demand an amount equal to the lesser of five percent (5%) of such unpaid sum or the maximum amount permitted by applicable law in order to defray the expense incurred by Lender in handling and processing such delinquent payment and to compensate Lender for the loss of the use of such delinquent payment. Any such amount shall be secured by the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents. 2.3.4. Method and Place of Payment. (a) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, all payments and prepayments under this Agreement and the Note shall be made to Lender or Lender's designee not later than 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the date when due and shall be made in lawful money of the United States of America in immediately available funds at Lender's office or such other place as Lender shall direct, and any funds received by Lender after such time shall, for all purposes hereof, be deemed to have been paid on the next succeeding Business Day. 26
(b) Whenever any payment to be made hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be stated to be due on a day which is not a Business Day, the due date thereof shall be the preceding Business Day. (c) All payments required to be made by Borrowers hereunder or under the Note or the other Loan Documents shall be made irrespective of, and without deduction for, any setoff, claim or counterclaim and shall be made irrespective of any defense thereto. 2.3.5. Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement. Borrowers shall obtain and maintain an Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement throughout the term of the Loan, including any extension thereof contemplated herein, and shall cause such Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement to be collaterally assigned to Lender pursuant to the terms set forth in the Collateral Assignment of Interest Rate Cap. Each Borrower shall comply with all of its obligations under the terms and provisions of each Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement. All amounts paid by the cap provider under an Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement shall be deposited directly by the cap provider into the Cash Management Account. Each Borrower shall take all actions reasonably requested by Lender to enforce Lender's rights under the Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement in the event of a default by the cap provider thereunder and shall not waive, amend or otherwise modify any of its rights or any provisions thereunder without Lender's consent and Rating Agency Confirmation. 2.3.6. Other Taxes. (a) All payments made by any Borrower hereunder shall be made free and clear of, and without reduction for or on account of, income, stamp or other taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, fees, deductions, reserves or withholdings imposed, levied, collected, withheld or assessed by any Governmental Authority, which are imposed, enacted or become effective after the date hereof excluding income and franchise taxes of the United States of America or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein (such non-excluded taxes being referred to collectively as "Other Taxes"). If any Other Taxes are required to be withheld from any amounts payable to Lender hereunder, the amounts so payable to Lender shall be increased to the extent necessary to yield to Lender (after payment of all Other Taxes) interest or any such other amounts payable hereunder at the rate or in the amounts specified hereunder. Whenever any Other Taxes are payable pursuant to applicable law by any Borrower, as promptly as possible thereafter, such Borrower shall send to Lender an original official receipt, if available, or certified copy thereof showing payment of such Other Taxes. Each Borrower hereby indemnifies Lender for any incremental taxes, interest or penalties that may become payable by Lender which may result from any failure by such Borrower to pay any such Other Taxes when due to the appropriate taxing authority or any failure by any Borrower to remit to Lender the required receipts or other required documentary evidence. (b) If any Borrower is required by law to withhold or deduct any amount from any payment hereunder in respect of any U.S. Tax, such Borrower shall withhold or deduct the appropriate amount, remit such amount to the appropriate Governmental Authority and pay to each Person to whom there has been an assignment or participation of the Loan and who is not a U.S. Person such additional amounts as are necessary in order that the net payment of any amount due to such non-U.S. Person hereunder after deduction for or withholding in respect of any U.S. Tax imposed with respect to such payment (or in lieu thereof, payment of such U.S. 27
Tax by such non-U.S. Person), will not be less than the amount stated herein to be then due and payable; provided that the foregoing obligation to pay such additional amounts shall not apply (i) to any assignee that has not complied with the obligations contained in Section 9.1(d), (ii) to any U.S. Taxes imposed solely by reason of the failure by such Person (or, if such Person is not the beneficial owner of the Loan, such beneficial owner) to comply with applicable certification, information, documentation or other reporting requirements concerning the nationality, residence, identity or connections with the United States of America of such Person (or beneficial owner, as the case may be) if such compliance is required by statute or regulation of the United States of America as a precondition to relief or exemption from such U.S. Taxes; or (iii) with respect to any Person who is a fiduciary or partnership or other than the sole beneficial owner of such payment, to any U.S. Tax imposed with respect to payments made under the Note to a fiduciary or partnership to the extent that the beneficial owner or member of the partnership would not have been entitled to the additional amounts if such beneficial owner or member of the partnership had been the holder of the Note. 2.3.7. Regulatory Change. In the event that any change in any requirement of law or in the interpretation or application thereof, or compliance by Lender with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) hereafter issued from any central bank or other Governmental Authority, including, without limitation, any imposition of or increase in any reserve requirement with respect to a LIBOR-based loan: (i) shall hereafter have the effect of reducing the rate of return on Lender's capital as a consequence of its obligations hereunder to a level below that which Lender could have achieved but for such adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration Lender's policies with respect to capital adequacy) by any amount deemed by Lender to be material; or (ii) shall hereafter impose on Lender any other condition and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to Lender of making, renewing or maintaining loans or extensions of credit or to reduce any amount receivable hereunder; then, in any such case, Borrowers shall promptly pay Lender, upon demand, any additional amounts necessary to compensate Lender for such additional cost or reduced amount receivable which Lender deems to be material as determined by Lender. Lender shall take reasonable steps to minimize or eliminate such additional costs. If Lender becomes entitled to claim any additional amounts pursuant to this Section, Lender shall provide Borrowers with not less than thirty (30) days written notice specifying in reasonable detail the event by reason of which it has become so entitled and the additional amount required to fully compensate Lender for such additional cost or reduced amount. A certificate as to any additional costs or amounts payable pursuant to the foregoing sentence, executed by an authorized signatory of Lender and submitted by Lender to any Borrower shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. If Lender shall fail to notify Borrowers of any such event within 180 days following the end of the month during which such event occurred, each Borrower's liability for any amounts described in this Section incurred by such Lender as a result of such event shall be limited to those attributable to the period occurring subsequent to the 180th day prior to the date upon which such Lender actually notified Borrowers of the occurrence of such event. This Section shall survive payment of the Note and the satisfaction of all other obligations of any Borrower under this Agreement and the Loan Documents. 2.3.8. Breakage Costs. Each Borrower agrees to indemnify Lender and to hold Lender harmless from any loss or expense which Lender sustains or incurs as a consequence of (i) any default by any Borrower in payment of the Loan, including, without limitation, any loss 28
or expense arising from interest or fees payable by Lender to lenders of funds obtained by it in order to maintain a LIBOR-based loan hereunder, and (ii) any prepayment (whether voluntary or mandatory) of the Loan on a day that is not a Payment Date, including, without limitation, such loss or expense arising from interest or fees payable by Lender to lenders of funds obtained by it in order to maintain the Loan, unless such prepayment includes interest on the amount being prepaid through the next Payment Date (the amounts referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) are herein referred to collectively as the "Breakage Costs"). Whenever in this Section the term "interest or fees payable by Lender to lenders of funds obtained by it" is used and no such funds were actually obtained from such lenders, it shall include interest or fees which would have been payable by Lender if it had obtained funds from lenders in order to maintain a LIBOR-based loan hereunder. Lender will provide to Borrowers a statement detailing such Breakage Costs and the calculation thereof. 2.3.9. Survival. The provisions of Sections 2.3.6 through 2.3.8 shall survive payment of the Note in full and the satisfaction of all other obligations of any Borrower under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Section 2.4. Prepayments. 2.4.1. Voluntary Prepayments. Except as otherwise provided herein, no Borrower shall have the right to prepay the Loan in whole or in part prior to the Lockout Date. Beginning on the Lockout Date or on any Business Day thereafter, any Borrower may, at its option, prepay the Debt in whole, but not in part. Any prepayment made on or after the Lockout Date shall be accompanied by a prepayment fee (a "Prepayment Fee") equal to (i) four percent (4%) of the outstanding principal balance if the prepayment occurs on or after the Lockout Date but prior to the second anniversary of the Re-sizing Date or (ii) two percent (2%) of the outstanding principal balance if the prepayment occurs on or after the second anniversary of the Re-sizing Date. In addition, if any Borrower prepays the Loan on any date other than a Payment Date, Borrowers shall pay to Lender on the date of such prepayment an amount equal to the interest that would have accrued on the Loan through the next Payment Date. As a condition to any voluntary prepayment, each Borrower shall give Lender written notice (a "Prepayment Notice") of its intent to prepay, which notice must be given not later than thirty (30) days prior to the date on which such prepayment is to be made and must specify the Business Day on which such prepayment is to be made. 2.4.2. Mandatory Prepayments. (a) On each date on which Lender actually receives a distribution of Net Proceeds, and if Lender does not make such Net Proceeds available to any Borrower for a Restoration of the applicable Property, Borrowers shall, at Lender's option, prepay the outstanding principal balance of the Note in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of such Net Proceeds together with interest that would have accrued on such amounts through the next Payment Date. The Allocated Loan Amount with respect to such Property will be reduced in an amount equal to such prepayment. No Prepayment Fee or Spread Maintenance Premium shall be due in connection with any prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.4.2. Any prepayment received by Lender pursuant to this Section 2.4.2 on a date other than a Payment Date shall be held by Lender as collateral security for the Loan in the Net Proceeds Account, and shall be applied by Lender on the next Payment Date. 29
(b) In the event, prior to a Securitization, the equity holders of the Parent propose a Change of Control (as defined in the Master Guaranty) to the Parent, as a condition to such Change of Control, in connection with the mandatory prepayment of the Mezzanine Loan as set forth in Section 2.4.2(d) of the Mezzanine Loan, Borrowers shall prepay the entire outstanding principal balance of the Loan together with interest that would have accrued on the principal balance of the Mortgage Loan through the next Payment Date (in the event the prepayment occurs on a date other than a Payment Date) plus the Prepayment Fee. 2.4.3. Prepayments After Default. If after an Event of Default, payment of all or any part of the principal of the Loan is tendered by any Borrower, a purchaser at foreclosure or any other Person, such tender shall be deemed an attempt to circumvent the prohibition against prepayment set forth in Section 2.4.1 and Borrowers, such purchaser at foreclosure or other Person shall pay the Spread Maintenance Premium, in addition to the outstanding principal balance, all accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable under the Loan Documents. Section 2.5. Extension of Loan. Borrowers shall have the option to extend the original Maturity Date of the Loan on the same terms and conditions in effect during the initial term, for two additional one (1) year periods subject to satisfaction as of the Maturity Date (or, with respect to the second one (1) year extension option, the Maturity Date as previously extended) of each of the terms and conditions set forth in this Section. Borrowers shall give Lender written notice of its exercise of the option to extend, not less than sixty (60) days prior to the Maturity Date (or, with respect to the second one (1) year extension option, the Maturity Date as previously extended). Each of the following conditions must be satisfied prior to any extension: (a) No Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing under the Loan Documents; (b) The Debt Service Coverage Ratio as of the Maturity Date (or, with respect to the second one (1) year extension option, the Maturity Date as previously extended) shall be no less than one hundred and three percent (103%) of the Debt Service Coverage Ratio as of the Closing Date. (c) Borrowers shall obtain and maintain throughout the extended term an Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement with a term equal to the extended term and collaterally assign the same pursuant to a Collateral Assignment of Interest Rate Cap; (d) Each Borrower shall pay all reasonable costs and expenses, including reasonable legal fees, actually incurred by Lender or otherwise involved in extending the Maturity Date; (e) Each Borrower shall execute and/or deliver to Lender any other documentation reasonably requested by Lender, including, without limitation, security agreements, financing statements, opinions of counsel and title endorsements, all of which shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Lender; (f) All Regulatory Permits with respect to the Properties shall be in full force and effect; and 30
(g) Borrowers shall pay the Extension Fee. Section 2.6 Supplemental Mortgage Affidavits. The Liens created by each Mortgage are intended to encumber the Property described therein to the full extent of Borrowers' obligations under the Loan Documents. As of the Closing Date, Borrowers shall have paid all state, county and municipal recording and all other taxes imposed upon the execution and recordation of the Mortgages. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, if at any time Lender determines, based on Lender's estimation of market value and applicable law, that Lender is not being afforded the maximum amount of security available from any Property as a direct, or indirect, result of applicable taxes not having been paid with respect to the related Mortgage, Lender may request, and each Borrower agrees that it (i) will execute, acknowledge and deliver to Lender, within a reasonable period of time after Lender's request, supplemental affidavits increasing the amount of Indebtedness for which all applicable taxes have been or are required to be paid under the related Mortgage to an amount determined by Lender, in its reasonable discretion, to be appropriate and (ii) will pay any and all applicable recording, intangible or similar taxes. ARTICLE III. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES Section 3.1. Borrower Representations. Each Borrower represents and warrants that: 3.1.1. Organization. Each Borrower is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing with full power and authority to own its assets and conduct its business, and is duly qualified in all jurisdictions in which the ownership or lease of its property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification. Each Borrower has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents by it, and has the full power and authority to execute, deliver and perform under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and all the transactions contemplated hereby. Each Borrower's exact and correct legal name as it appears on file with the Secretary of State of Delaware is as set forth in Schedule III attached hereto. Each Borrower is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the State of Delaware. Each Borrower's organization identification number assigned by the state of its organization is as set forth opposite such Borrower's name on Schedule III. Borrower's federal tax identification number is as set forth opposite such Borrower's name on Schedule III. 3.1.2. Proceedings. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by each Borrower and, as applicable, each Guarantor and constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Borrower and, as applicable, each Guarantor, enforceable against each Borrower and, as applicable, each Guarantor in accordance with their respective terms, except as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally, and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). 31
3.1.3. No Conflicts. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents by each Borrower and, as applicable, each Guarantor, and the performance of its obligations hereunder and thereunder will not conflict with or violate any provision of any law, or regulation to which or each Guarantor is subject, or conflict with, result in a breach of, or constitute a default, including due notice or lapse of time or both, under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any of any Borrower's or any Guarantor's organizational documents or any agreement or instrument to which any Borrower or any Guarantor is a party or by which it is bound, or any order or decree applicable to any Borrower or any Guarantor, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien on any of any Borrower's or any Guarantor's assets or property (other than pursuant to the Loan Documents) or otherwise materially and adversely affect performance of its respective duties. 3.1.4. Litigation. There is no action, suit, proceeding arbitration or investigation pending or, to such Borrower's knowledge, threatened against any Borrower, any Borrower Party, any Guarantor, Manager or any of the Properties in any court or by or before any other Governmental Authority which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 3.1.5. Agreements. No Borrower Party is in default with respect to any order or decree of any court or any order, regulation or demand of any Governmental Authority, which default might have consequences that would materially and adversely affect the condition (financial or other) or operations of any Borrower or any of the Properties or might have consequences that would adversely affect its performance hereunder. 3.1.6. Consents. No consent, approval, authorization, order or filings of or with any court or Governmental Authority is required for the execution, delivery and performance by any Borrower of, or compliance by any Borrower with, this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby except those the absence of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect, other than those which have been obtained by such Borrower; provided, however, Borrowers will obtain within sixty (60) days (or, in the case of Medicare provider agreements only, one hundred and eighty (180) days) of the Closing Date the state licenses for the operation of each Property as a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility, as applicable, and the Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements in the names of each applicable Borrower which have not been obtained as of the Closing Date. 3.1.7. Title. Each Fee Owner has good, marketable and insurable fee title to the real property comprising the applicable Property and each Operator has a valid leasehold interest to the real property comprising the applicable Property and good title to the balance of such Property, in each case, free and clear of all Liens whatsoever except the Permitted Encumbrances. Each Mortgage, when properly recorded in the appropriate records, together with any Uniform Commercial Code financing statements required to be filed in connection therewith, will create (i) a valid, and enforceable first priority, perfected Lien on the applicable Property, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances and (ii) valid and enforceable perfected security interests in and to, and perfected collateral assignments of, all personalty (including the Leases), all in accordance with the terms thereof, in each case subject only to any Permitted Encumbrances. There are no mechanics', materialman's or other similar Liens or claims which have been filed for work, labor or materials affecting any Property which are or may be Liens prior to, or equal or coordinate with, the Lien of the related Mortgage or for which Borrower has 32
not provided title insurance over such Lien. None of the Permitted Encumbrances, individually or in the aggregate, materially interfere with the benefits of the security intended to be provided by the Mortgages and this Agreement, materially and adversely affect the value of the Properties, impair the intended use or operations of the Properties or impair any Borrower's ability to pay its obligations in a timely manner. 3.1.8. No Plan Assets. As of the date hereof and throughout the term of the Loan (a) no Borrower is and will be an "employee benefit plan," as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, subject to Title I of ERISA, or a "plan," as defined in Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code, subject to Code Section 4975, (b) no Borrower is and will be a "governmental plan" within the meaning of Section 3(32) of ERISA, (c) none of the assets of any Borrower constitutes or will constitute "plan assets" of one or more of any such plans within the meaning of 29 C.F.R. Section 2510.3-101, and (d) transactions by or with any Borrower are not and will not be subject to state statutes regulating investment of, and fiduciary obligations with respect to, governmental plans. 3.1.9. Compliance. Each Borrower Party and each of the Properties and the use thereof is in substantial compliance with all applicable Legal Requirements, including, without limitation, building and zoning ordinances and codes. No Borrower Party is in default or violation of any order, writ, injunction, decree or demand of any Governmental Authority, the violation of which might materially adversely affect the condition (financial or otherwise) or business of any Borrower. No Borrower Party has committed any act which may give any Governmental Authority the right to cause any Borrower to forfeit any of the Properties or any part thereof or any monies paid in performance of any Borrower's obligations under any of the Loan Documents. 3.1.10. Financial Information. All financial data, including, without limitation, the statements of cash flow and income and operating expense, that have been delivered to Lender in respect of the Properties and each Borrower Party (i) are true, complete and correct in all material respects, (ii) accurately represent the financial condition of the Properties as of the date of such reports, and (iii) have been prepared in accordance with GAAP throughout the periods covered, except as disclosed therein. No Borrower Party has any contingent liabilities, liabilities for taxes, unusual forward or long-term commitments or unrealized or anticipated losses from any unfavorable commitments that are known to any Borrower and reasonably likely to have a materially adverse effect on the Properties or the operation thereof, except as referred to or reflected in said financial statements. Since the date of the financial statements, there has been no material adverse change in the financial condition, operations or business of a Borrower Party or the Properties from that set forth in said financial statements. 3.1.11. Condemnation. No Condemnation or other proceeding is pending or, to such Borrower's knowledge, is threatened with respect to all or any portion of any of the Properties or for the relocation of roadways providing access to any of the Properties. 3.1.12. Utilities and Public Access. Except as denoted on the application Survey or Title Policy, each Property has adequate rights of access to public ways and is served by utilities, including, without limitation, adequate water, sewer, electricity, gas, telephone, sanitary sewer and storm drain facilities. All public utilities necessary to the continued use and enjoyment of each Property as presently used and enjoyed are located in the public right-of-way 33
abutting such Property, and all such utilities are connected so as to serve such Property without passing over other property. All roads necessary for the full utilization of each Property for its current purpose have been completed and dedicated to public use and accepted by all governmental authorities or are the subject of access easements for the benefit of such Property. 3.1.13. Separate Lots. Except as denoted by the applicable Title Policy, each Property is comprised of one (1) or more parcels which constitute separate tax lots and do not constitute a portion of any other tax lot not a part of the applicable Property. 3.1.14. Assessments. There are no pending or, to Borrower's knowledge, proposed special or other assessments for public improvements or otherwise affecting any of the Properties, nor are there any contemplated improvements to any of the Properties that may result in such special or other assessments. 3.1.15. Enforceability. The Loan Documents are not subject to any right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense by any Borrower or, as applicable, any Guarantor, including the defense of usury, nor would the operation of any of the terms of the Loan Documents, or the exercise of any right thereunder, render the Loan Documents unenforceable, and neither any Borrower nor any Guarantor has not asserted any right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense with respect thereto. 3.1.16. Assignment of Leases. Each Assignment of Leases creates a valid assignment of, or a valid security interest in, certain rights under the related Leases, subject only to a license granted to the applicable Borrower to exercise certain rights and to perform certain obligations of the lessor under such Leases, including the right to operate the related Property. No Person other than Lender has any interest in or assignment of the Leases or any portion of the Rents due and payable or to become due and payable thereunder. 3.1.17. Insurance. Each Borrower has obtained and has delivered to Lender original or certified copies of all of the Policies for each Property, with all premiums prepaid thereunder, reflecting the insurance coverages, amounts and other requirements set forth in this Agreement. Except as set forth in Schedule IX, no claims have been made by any Borrower under any of the Policies which remain unresolved, and no Person, including each Borrower, has done, by act or omission, anything which would impair the coverage of any of the Policies. 3.1.18. Licenses. All permits, authorizations, licenses and approvals (including, without limitation, CONs, Accreditations, Medicaid Provider Agreements and Certifications, Medicare Participation Agreements and Certifications and certificates of occupancy) required by any Governmental Authority for the use, occupancy and operation of each Property in the manner in which such Property is currently being used, occupied and operated have been obtained, except those the absence of which would not mean a Material Adverse Effect and are valid and in full force and effect; provided, however, Borrowers will obtain within sixty (60) days (or in the case of Medicare provider agreements only, one hundred eighty (180) days) of the Closing Date the state licenses for operation of each Property as a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility, as applicable, and the Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements in the names of the applicable Borrowers which have not been obtained as of the Closing Date. 34
3.1.19. Flood Zone. None of the Improvements on any of the Properties are located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as a special flood hazard area. 3.1.20. Physical Condition. Except as set forth on the applicable Property Condition Report, each Property, including, without limitation, all buildings, improvements, parking facilities, sidewalks, storm drainage systems, roofs, plumbing systems, HVAC systems, fire protection systems, electrical systems, equipment, elevators, exterior sidings and doors, landscaping, irrigation systems and all structural components, are in good condition, order and repair in all material respects; there exists no structural or other material defects or damages in any of the Properties, whether latent or otherwise, and no Borrower has received notice from any insurance company or bonding company of any defects or inadequacies in any of the Properties, or any part thereof, which would materially and adversely affect the insurability of the same or cause the imposition of extraordinary premiums or charges thereon or of any termination or threatened termination of any policy of insurance or bond. 3.1.21. Boundaries. Except as denoted on the applicable Survey, all of the improvements which were included in determining the appraised value of each Property lie wholly within the boundaries and building restriction lines of such Property, and no improvements on adjoining properties encroach upon such Property, and no easements or other encumbrances affecting the applicable Property encroach upon any of the improvements, so as to affect the value or marketability of the applicable Property except those which are insured against by title insurance. 3.1.22. Leases. Each Borrower represents and warrants to Lender with respect to the Leases that: (a) the list of Operating Leases described on Schedule I attached hereto is true, complete and correct and none of the Properties are subject to any Leases other than (i) such Operating Leases and (ii) the resident care agreements entered into by the Operators and the residents of the Properties, (b) the Operating Leases are in full force and effect and there are no defaults thereunder by either party, (c) the copies of the Operating Leases delivered to Lender are true and complete, and there are no oral agreements with respect thereto, (d) no Rent (including security deposits) has been paid more than one (1) month in advance of its due date, (e) all work to be performed by any Borrower under each Lease has been performed as required and has been accepted by the applicable tenant, and (f) any payments, free rent, partial rent, rebate of rent or other payments, credits, allowances or abatements required to be given by any Borrower to any tenant has already been received by such tenant. 3.1.23. Filing and Recording Taxes. All transfer taxes, deed stamps, intangible taxes or other amounts in the nature of transfer taxes required to be paid under applicable Legal Requirements in connection with the transfer of the Properties to any Borrower have been paid or will be paid at closing. All mortgage, mortgage recording, stamp, intangible or other similar tax required to be paid under applicable Legal Requirements in connection with the execution, delivery, recordation, filing, registration, perfection or enforcement of any of the Loan Documents, including, without limitation, the Mortgages, have been paid or are being paid simultaneously herewith. All taxes and governmental assessments due and owing in respect of the Properties have been paid, or an escrow of funds in an amount sufficient to cover such 35
payments has been established hereunder or are insured against by the title insurance policy to be issued in connection with the Mortgages. 3.1.24. Single Purpose. Each Borrower hereby represents and warrants to, and covenants with, Lender that each Borrower has been at all times since its formation, and will continue to be a Single-Purpose Entity. 3.1.25. Tax Filings; Payroll Taxes. Each Borrower and each Guarantor has filed (or have obtained effective extensions for filing) all federal, state and local tax returns required to be filed and have paid or made adequate provision for the payment of all federal, state and local taxes, charges and assessments payable by any Borrower and any Guarantor. Each Borrower believes that its tax returns and those of each Guarantor properly reflect the income and taxes of each Borrower and each Guarantor for the periods covered thereby, subject only to reasonable adjustments required by the Internal Revenue Service or other applicable tax authority upon audit. Each of each Borrower and each Guarantor have paid all payroll taxes required to be paid by any such party by any Governmental Authorities. 3.1.26. Solvency. Each Borrower (a) has not entered into the transaction or any Loan Document with the actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor and (b) received reasonably equivalent value in exchange for its obligations under the Loan Documents. Giving effect to the Loan, the fair saleable value of each Borrower's assets exceeds and will, immediately following the making of the Loan, exceed such Borrower's total liabilities, including, without limitation, subordinated, unliquidated, disputed and contingent liabilities. The fair saleable value of each Borrower's assets is and will, immediately following the making of the Loan, be greater than such Borrower's probable liabilities, including the maximum amount of its contingent liabilities on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured. Each Borrower's assets do not and, immediately following the making of the Loan will not, constitute unreasonably small capital to carry out its business as conducted or as proposed to be conducted. Each Borrower does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur Indebtedness and liabilities (including contingent liabilities and other commitments) beyond its ability to pay such Indebtedness and liabilities as they mature (taking into account the timing and amounts of cash to be received by such Borrower and the amounts to be payable on or in respect of obligations of such Borrower). 3.1.27. Federal Reserve Regulations. No part of the proceeds of the Loan will be used for the purpose of purchasing or acquiring any "margin stock" within the meaning of Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or for any other purpose which would be inconsistent with such Regulation U or any other Regulations of such Board of Governors, or for any purposes prohibited by Legal Requirements or by the terms and conditions of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents. 3.1.28. Organizational Chart. The organizational chart attached as Schedule IV hereto, relating to Borrowers and certain Affiliates and other parties, is true, complete and correct on and as of the date hereof. 3.1.29. Bank Holding Company. Each Borrower is not a "bank holding company" or a direct or indirect subsidiary of a "bank holding company" as defined in the Bank 36
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and Regulation Y thereunder of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 3.1.30. No Other Debt. Each Borrower has not borrowed or received debt financing (other than permitted pursuant to this Agreement) that has not been heretofore repaid in full. 3.1.31. Investment Company Act. Each Borrower is not (1) an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company," within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended; (2) a "holding company" or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company" or an "affiliate" of either a "holding company" or a "subsidiary company" within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended; or (3) subject to any other federal or state law or regulation which purports to restrict or regulate its ability to borrower money. 3.1.32. No Bankruptcy Filing. Each Borrower is not contemplating either the filing of a petition by it under any state or federal bankruptcy or insolvency laws or the liquidation of its assets or property, and each Borrower does not have any knowledge of any Person contemplating the filing of any such petition against it or any Guarantor and the Properties are not the subject of, and each Borrower and each Guarantor are not a debtor in, any state or federal bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding. 3.1.33. Full and Accurate Disclosure. No information contained in this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, or any written statement furnished by or on behalf of any Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made. There is no fact or circumstance presently known to any Borrower which has not been disclosed to Lender and which materially adversely affects, or is reasonably likely to materially adversely affect, any of the Properties, any Borrower or its business, operations or condition (financial or otherwise). 3.1.34. Foreign Person. Each Borrower is not a "foreign person" within the meaning of Section 1445(f)(3) of the Code. 3.1.35. No Change in Facts or Circumstances; Disclosure. There has been no material adverse change in any condition, fact, circumstance or event that would make the financial statements, rent rolls, reports, certificates or other documents submitted in connection with the Loan inaccurate, incomplete or otherwise misleading in any material respect or that otherwise materially and adversely affects the business operations or the financial condition of any Borrower or any of the Properties. 3.1.36. Security Deposits. Each Borrower Party is and each Borrower will continue to be in substantial compliance in all material respects with all Legal Requirements relating to security deposits and resident trust funds. Each Borrower is and will continue to hold all related security deposits and resident trust funds collected in connection with each of the Properties in segregated Eligible Accounts. 37
3.1.37. Embargoed Person. (a) None of the funds or other assets of any Borrower or any Guarantor constitute property of, or are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any person, entity or government subject to trade restrictions under U.S. law, including but not limited to, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C.(S)(S) 1701 et seq., The Trading with the Enemy Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 1 et seq. , and any Executive Orders or regulations promulgated thereunder with the result that the investment in any Borrower or any Guarantor, as applicable (whether directly or indirectly), is prohibited by law or the Loan made by the Lender is in violation of law ("Embargoed Person"); (b) no Embargoed Person has any interest of any nature whatsoever in any Borrower or any Guarantor, as applicable (whether directly or indirectly), is prohibited by law or the Loan is in violation of law; and (c) none of the funds of any Borrower or any Guarantor, as applicable, have been derived from any unlawful activity with the result that the investment in any Borrower or any Guarantor, as applicable (whether directly or indirectly), is prohibited by law or the Loan is in violation of law. 3.1.38. Intentionally deleted. 3.1.39. Management Agreement/Staff Leasing Agreement. Each Management Agreement and Staff Leasing Agreement is in full force and effect and there is no default, breach or violation existing thereunder by any party thereto and no event has occurred that, with the passage of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a default, breach or violation by any party thereunder. 3.1.40. Use-Specific Representations. (a) Compliance with Laws. Each Borrower Party and each Property are in substantial compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations and guidelines (including any government payment program requirements and disclosure of ownership and related information requirements), quality and safety standards, accepted professional standards and principles that apply to professionals providing services to Nursing Facilities and/or Assisted Living Facilities, in each case, as applicable, accreditation standards, and requirements of the applicable state licensing agency, CMS and all other Governmental Authorities including, without limitation, those requirements relating to the physical structure and environment of each Property, licensing, quality and adequacy of medical care, distribution of pharmaceuticals, rate setting, equipment, personnel, operating policies, additions to facilities and services and fee splitting except for any non-compliance with any of the foregoing that could have a Material Adverse Effect. No Borrower Party has committed any act which may give any Governmental Authority the right to cause any Borrower to lose any applicable Regulatory Permits the loss of which could have a Material Adverse Effect. (b) Regulatory Permits. All governmental licenses, permits, regulatory agreements or other approvals or agreements necessary or desirable for the use or operation of each Property as intended are held by the applicable Borrower and are in full force and effect, including, without limitation, approved provider participation status in any provider payment program (including, but not limited to, Medicare and Medicaid), and a valid CON or similar certificate, license, or approval issued by the applicable state and/or federal agency for the requisite number and type of beds (collectively, the "Regulatory Permits") except for any Regulatory Permits the failure to hold or maintain in full force or effect could have a Material 38
Adverse Effect; provided, however, Borrower will obtain within sixty (60) days or, in the case of Medicare provider agreements only, one hundred and eighty (180) days of the Closing Date the state licenses for the operation of each Property as a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility, as applicable, and the Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements in the names of the applicable Borrowers which have not been obtained as of the Closing Date. (c) Ownership of Regulatory Permits. The Regulatory Permits, including without limitation, each CON: (i) are not and have not been, transferred to any location other than the Property to which such Regulatory Permits relate; (ii) are not and have not been, pledged as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness other than the Loan; and (iii) are held free from restrictions or known conflicts which would materially impair the use or operation of each Property as intended, and are not provisional, probationary or restricted in any way. (d) Medicare and Medicaid Compliance. To the extent applicable, each Borrower Party and each Property is in substantial compliance with all requirements for participation in Medicare and Medicaid, including without limitation, the Medicare and Medicaid Patient and Program Protection Act of 1987. To the extent applicable, each Borrower Party and each Property is in conformance in all material respects with all conditions of participation, reimbursement and cost reporting requirements, and each applicable Borrower has a current provider agreement which is in full force and effect under Medicare and Medicaid for the number and type of beds. (e) Third Party Payor Programs. There is no threatened or pending revocation, suspension, termination, probation, restriction, limitation, fine, civil monetary penalty, recoupment or non-renewal affecting any Borrower Party or any Property in respect of any participation or provider agreement with any third-party payor, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid, Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield, and any other private commercial insurance managed care and employee assistance program (collectively, the "Third Party Payor Programs") to which any Borrower presently is subject. All Medicaid, Medicare, and private insurance cost reports and financial reports submitted by any Borrower Party are and will be materially accurate and complete and have not been and will not be misleading in any material respects. No cost reports or financial reports for any Property remain "open" or unsettled except for those reports that remain open for the current period. (f) Governmental Proceedings and Notices. Except as described on the attached Schedule XIII, no Borrower Party and no Property is currently the subject of any proceeding by any Governmental Authority, and no notice of any violation or subpoena or inquiry of any nature has been received from a Governmental Authority that would, directly or indirectly, or with the passage of time: (i) have a material adverse impact on any Borrower's ability to accept and/or retain patients or result in the imposition of a fine, a sanction, an 39
administrative or criminal action, a lower rate certification or a lower reimbursement rate for services rendered to eligible patients; (ii) modify, limit or annul or result in the transfer, suspension, revocation or imposition of probationary use on any Regulatory Permit the absence of which would have a Material Adverse Effect; (iii) affect any Borrower's continued participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other Third Party Payor Programs, as applicable, or any successor programs thereto, at current rate certifications. (g) Physical Plant Standards. Each Property and the use thereof complies in all material respects with all applicable local, state and federal building codes, fire codes, life safety codes, health care, nursing facility and other similar regulatory requirements, including, without limitation, participation requirements in Medicare and Medicaid (collectively, the "Physical Plant Standards") and, except as described on the attached Schedule X, no waivers of the Physical Plant Standards exist at such Property. (h) Past Violations. Except as set forth on the attached Schedule XIV, here have been no penalty enforcement actions undertaken by any Governmental Authority during the last three (3) calendar years or during the last survey cycle against any Property, against any Borrower Party, or against any partner, member, officer, director, stockholder or Affiliate of any Borrower Party which enforcement action could have a Material Adverse Effect. There have been no violations over the past three (3) years that have threatened any Property's or any Borrower's certification for participation in any Medicare, Medicaid or other Third Party Payor Programs. No Borrower Party has been the subject of a "double G" determination for the last three (3) calendar years or since January 14, 2000, whichever date is later. (i) Audits. Except as set forth on the attached Schedule XI, there are no current, pending or outstanding reimbursement audits regarding Medicaid, Medicare or other Third Party Payor Programs nor any appeals pending at any Property that (x) are not applicable in the ordinary course to Nursing Facilities or Assisted Living Facilities, as applicable, comparable to the Properties and (y) could have a Material Adverse Effect. (j) Recoupment. There are no current or pending recoupment efforts regarding Medicaid, Medicare or other Third Party Payor Programs at (or with respect to) any Property that (x) are not applicable in the ordinary course to Nursing Facilities or Assisted Living Facilities, as applicable, comparable to any Property and (y) could have a Material Adverse Effect. No Borrower is a participant in any federal program whereby any Governmental Authority may have the right to recover funds by reason of the advance of federal funds. (k) Pledges of Receivables. No Borrower Party has pledged its receivables or any Rents as collateral security for any outstanding loan or indebtedness other than the Loan. (l) Patient Care Agreements. There are no patient or resident care agreements with patients or residents or with any other persons that deviate in any material adverse respect from the standard form customarily used at each Property. 40
(m) Patient Records. All patient and resident records at each Property, and all patient and resident trust fund accounts, are maintained in substantial compliance with all regulatory requirements and are true and correct in all respects. (n) Reimbursement Contracts. All Reimbursement Contracts applicable to any Borrower Party or any Property are in good standing with all applicable Governmental Authorities, Regulatory Permits, Medicare Certifications and/or Medicaid Certifications. Each Borrower Party is current in the payment of all so-called provider specific taxes, bed taxes or other assessments with respect to any Reimbursement Contracts. (o) Licensed Beds. The number and category of licensed beds at each Property is as set forth on Schedule III attached hereto. Except as set forth in Schedule XII, no waivers of any laws, rules, regulations or requirements (including, without limitation minimum square foot requirements per bed) are required for each Property to operate at the licensed bed capacities listed on Schedule III and to operate in substantial compliance with applicable Legal Requirements. No Borrower Party has been granted nor has any Borrower Party requested the right, to reduce the number of licensed beds at any Property. No Borrower Party has applied for approval to move any and all of the licensed beds at any Property to any other location. (p) Intentionally deleted. 3.1.41. Material Agreements. There are no Material Agreements except as described in Exhibit D. Each Borrower has made available to Lender true and complete copies of all Material Agreements. Each Material Agreement has been entered into at arm's length in the ordinary course of business by or on behalf of a Borrower. Section 3.2 Survival of Representations. The representations and warranties set forth in Section 3.1 shall survive for so long as any amount remains payable to Lender under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents. ARTICLE IV. BORROWER COVENANTS Section 4.1 Borrower Affirmative Covenants. Until all amounts are paid in full under the Loan Documents (excluding contingent indemnity obligations that survive repayment), each Borrower hereby covenants and agrees with Lender that: 4.1.1. Existence; Compliance with Legal Requirements. Each Borrower shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights, licenses, permits and franchises except to the extent such preservation, renewal and effectiveness could not have a Material Adverse Effect, and substantially comply with all Legal Requirements applicable to it and the Properties. 4.1.2. Taxes and Other Charges. Each Borrower shall pay all Taxes and Other Charges and payroll taxes now or hereafter levied or assessed or imposed against the Properties 41
or any part thereof or any Borrower as the same become due and payable; provided, however, each Borrower's obligation to directly pay Taxes shall be suspended for so long as such Borrower complies with the terms and provisions of Section 6.3 hereof and there are adequate funds in the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account. Each Borrower shall furnish to Lender receipts for the payment of the Taxes and the Other Charges prior to the date the same shall become delinquent; provided, however, that each Borrower is not required to furnish such receipts for payment of Taxes in the event that such Taxes have been paid by Lender pursuant to Section 6.3 hereof. Each Borrower shall not permit or suffer and shall promptly discharge any liens or charges against the Properties, except Permitted Encumbrances. After prior notice to Lender, each Borrower, at its own expense, may contest by appropriate legal proceeding, conducted in good faith and with due diligence, the amount or validity of any Taxes or Other Charges, provided that (i) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and remains uncured; (ii) such proceeding shall be permitted under and be conducted in accordance with all applicable statutes, laws and ordinances; (iii) none of the Properties nor any part thereof or interest therein will be in danger of being sold, forfeited, terminated, canceled or lost; (iv) each Borrower shall promptly upon final determination thereof pay the amount of any such Taxes or Other Charges, together with all costs, interest and penalties which may be payable in connection therewith; (v) such proceeding shall suspend the collection of Taxes or Other Charges from the applicable Property; and (vi) upon request of Lender, each Borrower shall deposit with Lender cash, or other security as may be approved by Lender, in an amount equal to one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the contested amount, to insure the payment of any such Taxes or Other Charges, together with all interest and penalties thereon. Lender may pay over any such cash or other security held by Lender to the claimant entitled thereto at any time when, in the judgment of Lender, the entitlement of such claimant is established. 4.1.3. Litigation. Each Borrower shall give prompt notice to Lender of any litigation or governmental proceedings pending or threatened against any Borrower which might materially adversely affect any of the Properties or any Borrower's ability to perform its obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents. 4.1.4. Access to Properties. Each Borrower shall permit agents, representatives and employees of Lender to inspect each Property or any part thereof at reasonable hours upon reasonable advance written notice. Lender shall not unreasonably interfere with any Borrowers' business operations during such inspection. 4.1.5. Further Assurances. Each Borrower shall, at such Borrower's sole cost and expense, from time to time as reasonably requested by Lender, execute, acknowledge, record, register, file and/or deliver to Lender such other instruments, agreements, certificates and documents (including UCC financing statements and amended or replacement mortgages) as Lender may reasonably request to evidence, confirm, perfect and maintain the liens securing or intended to secure the obligations of any Borrower under the Loan Documents or to facilitate a replacement of the Cash Management Bank or Collection Account Bank if requested by Lender, and do and execute all such further lawful and reasonable acts, conveyances and assurances for the better and more effective carrying out of the intents and purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as Lender shall reasonably require from time to time. Each Borrower hereby authorizes and appoints Lender as its attorney-in-fact to execute, acknowledge, record, register and/or file such instruments, agreements, certificates and documents, and to do and 42
execute such acts, conveyances and assurances, should any Borrower fail to do so itself in violation of this Agreement following written request from Lender, in each case without the signature of any Borrower. The foregoing grant of authority is a power of attorney coupled with an interest and such appointment shall be irrevocable for the term of this Agreement. Each Borrower hereby ratifies all actions that such attorney shall lawfully take or cause to be taken in accordance with this Section. 4.1.6. Financial Reporting. (a) Each Borrower shall keep and maintain or will cause to be kept and maintained proper and accurate books and records, in accordance with GAAP in all material respects, reflecting the financial affairs of each Borrower. Lender shall have the right from time to time during normal business hours upon reasonable notice to the applicable Borrower to examine such books and records at the office of such Borrower or other Person maintaining such books and records and to make such copies or extracts thereof as Lender shall desire. (b) As soon as available, and in any event within one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis, financial statements prepared for such year with respect to Borrowers, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such year, together with related statements of income and members' or partners' capital for such Fiscal Year, audited by a "Big Four" accounting firm or a nationally recognized, independent certified public accounting firm reasonably satisfactory to Lender whose opinion shall be to the effect that such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis and shall not be qualified as to the scope of the audit or as to the status of each Borrower as a going concern. Together with each Borrower's annual financial statements, such Borrower shall furnish to Lender an Officer's Certificate certifying as of the date thereof whether to the best of such Borrower's knowledge there exists an event or circumstance which constitutes a Default or Event of Default by any Borrower under the Loan Documents and if such Default or Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same. Together with each Borrower's annual financial statements, such Borrower shall furnish to Lender, in hard copy and electronic format: (i) a statement of cash flows for each Property; and (ii) such other information as Lender shall reasonably request. (c) As soon as available, and in any event within forty-five (45) days after the end of each fiscal quarter (based on Borrrower's Fiscal Year), each Borrower shall furnish to Lender, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis, quarterly and year-to-date unaudited financial statements prepared for such fiscal quarter with respect to Borrowers, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such fiscal quarter, together with related statements of income, members' or partners' capital and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Fiscal Year ending with such fiscal quarter,which statements shall be accompanied by (i) an 43
Officer's Certificate certifying that the same are true and correct and were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, subject to changes resulting from audit and normal year-end audit adjustments and (ii) an Officer's Certificate certifying as of the date thereof whether to the best of such Borrower's knowledge there exists an event or circumstance which constitutes a Default or Event of Default by any Borrower under the Loan Documents and if such Default or Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same. Each such quarterly statement shall show the separate operations of each Property, including, without limitation, (1) a breakdown of Patient Revenues and other revenues itemized by payor type and a reasonably detailed breakdown of operating expenses and (2) patient census by payor type. Each such quarterly report shall be accompanied by the following, in hard copy and electronic format: (i) a statement in reasonable detail which calculates Net Operating Income for each Property for the trailing four fiscal quarters, in each case, ending at the end of such fiscal quarter; (ii) then current occupancy report for each Property; and (iii) such other information as Lender shall reasonably request. (d) As soon as available, and in any event within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar month, each Borrower shall furnish (x) a report describing in reasonable detail the occurrence during such calendar month of any of the following: the termination, cancellation or entry into, or default by any party under, any Operating Lease at any of the Properties or any event which is reasonably likely to result in a material adverse effect on the the ability of any Borrower to perform any material provision of any Loan Document,or the value, use or enjoyment of any of the Properties or the operation thereof and (y) such Borrower's calculation of Debt Service Coverage Ratio and adequate back-up to support such calculation. (e) Until the occurrence of a Securitization or series of Securitizations, which, in the aggregate, shall have securitized the entire Loan, each Borrower shall, simultaneously with delivering the report described in the foregoing clause (d), furnish, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis, monthly and year-to-date unaudited financial statements prepared for the applicable month with respect to Borrowers, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such month, together with related statements of income, members' or partners' capital and cash flows for such month and for the portion of the Fiscal Year ending with such month, which statements shall be accompanied by (i) an Officer's Certificate certifying that the same are true and correct and were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, subject to changes resulting from audit and normal year-end audit adjustments and (ii) an Officer's Certificate certifying as to any material variances from the approved Annual Budget on a line-item basis. Each monthly report shall show the separate operations of each Property, including, without limitation, (1) a breakdown of Patient Revenues and other revenues itemized by payor type and a reasonably detailed breakdown of operating expenses and (2) patient census by payor 44
type. Each such monthly report shall be accompanied by the following in hard copy and electronic format: (i) a statement in reasonable detail which calculates Net Operating Income for each Property for the trailing twelve (12) months, in each case, ending at the end of that month; (ii) then current occupancy report for each Property; and (iii) such other information as Lender shall reasonably request. (f) As soon as available, and in any event within ninety (90) days after the end of each calendar year, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender true and complete copies of a report regarding the compliance of the Properties with all Regulatory Permits. (g) Upon Lender's written request, as soon as available, and in any event within five (5) days after preparation thereof, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender the weekly and monthly consolidated cash flow reports of each Operator and consolidated patient census reports for each Operator. (h) As soon as available, and in any event no later than thirty (30) days after the end of each fiscal quarter, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender (i) the quarterly consolidated survey deficiency summary report, indicating for each Property whether any survey, citation or report alleging any deficiency with respect to such Property has been issued during the prior month and, if so, setting forth, the identity of the Governmental Authority that issued such survey, citation or report, a description of the alleged deficiency and the timetable or deadline for same and the applicable Borrower's plan for curing such deficiency and (ii) to the extent existing, all actuarial reports relating to all professional liability claims. Each Borrower shall also deliver to Lender promptly after request therefor by Lender any other Property specific survey reports reasonably requested by Lender. (i) As soon as available, and in any event within forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, each Borrower shall deliver to Lender copies of the Officer's Certificates, setting forth whether any event(s) of default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the reduction of the number of licensed beds at any Property or the revocation of certification for reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid with respect to any Property. (j) As soon as available, and in any event within ten (10) days of receipt, each Borrower shall deliver to Lender any and all notices (regardless of form) from any licensing and/or certifying agency (i) that any Regulatory Permit for any Property or the Medicare Certification or Medicaid Certification of any Property is the subject of any enforcement action, revocation or suspension, or is subject to assessment for civil monetary penalties or is the subject of any overpayment claim or recoupment claim or (ii) that action is pending or being considered to revoke or suspend any Regulatory Permit or to institute enforcement actions of any kind. 45
(k) Upon the request of Lender, within five (5) days of the earlier of (i) the date of the required filing of cost reports for any Property with the Medicaid agency or (ii) the date of actual filing of such cost report for any Property with such agency, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender a complete and accurate copy of the annual Medicaid cost report for each Property, which will be prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by an experienced cost report preparer acceptable to Lender in its sole discretion, and promptly furnish to Lender any amendments filed with respect to such reports and all responses, audit reports or inquiries with respect to such reports. (l) As soon as available, and in any event within five (5) days of receipt, each Borrower shall deliver to Lender a copy of any Medicare, Medicaid or other licensing agency survey or report and any statement of deficiencies, and within the time period required by the particular agency for furnishing a plan of correction, shall also furnish or cause to be furnished to Lender, a copy of the plan of correction generated from such survey or report for a Property,and correct or cause to be corrected any deficiency, the curing of which is a condition of continued licensure or for full participation in Medicare or Medicaid for existing patients or for new patients to be admitted with Medicare or Medicaid coverage, by the date required for cure by such agency (plus any extensions of time granted by such agency). (m) Borrowers have previously delivered to Lender the Annual Budget for each Property for the 2002 Fiscal Year. At least thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of each subsequent Fiscal Year during the term of the Loan, Borrowers shall deliver to Lender for approval an Annual Budget presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis for the ensuing Fiscal Year and, promptly after preparation thereof, any subsequent revisions to the Annual Budget. (n) As soon as available, and in any event within one hundred twenty(120) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, each Borrower shall cause each Guarantor to furnish to Lender, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis, financial statements prepared for such year with respect to Guarantors, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such year, together with related statements of income and members' or partners' capital for such Fiscal Year, audited by a "Big Four" accounting firm or a nationally recognized, independent certified public accounting firm reasonably satisfactory to Lender whose opinion shall be to the effect that such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis and shall not be qualified as to the scope of the audit or as to the status of each Guarantor as a going concern. Together with each Guarantor's annual financial statements, each Borrower shall cause each Guarantor to furnish to Lender an Officer's Certificate certifying as of the date thereof whether to the best of such Guarantor's knowledge there exists an event or circumstance which constitutes a Default or Event of Default by any Guarantor under any guaranty and if such Default or Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same. (o) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Parent makes a public offering of its stock and becomes subject to public record disclosure, Mortgage Borrowers shall provide Lender with copies of all financial statements filed by Parent with the Securities and Exchange Commission within two (2) days of such filing. 46
4.1.7. Title to the Properties. Each Borrower will warrant and defend the validity and priority of the Liens of the Mortgages and the Assignments of Leases on the Properties against the claims of all Persons whomsoever, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances. 4.1.8. Estoppel Statement. (a) After request by Lender, each Borrower shall within ten (10) Business Days furnish Lender with a statement, duly acknowledged and certified, stating (i) the unpaid principal amount of the Note, (ii) the Interest Rate of the Note, (iii) the date installments of interest and/or principal were last paid, (iv) any offsets or defenses to the payment of the Debt, if any, and (v) that this Agreement and the other Loan Documents have not been modified or if modified, giving particulars of such modification. (b) Each Borrower shall deliver to Lender, upon request, an estoppel certificate from each tenant under any Lease (other than tenants under patient admission and resident care agreements) at any of the Properties; provided that such certificate may be in the form required under such Lease; provided further that each Borrower shall not be required to deliver such certificates more frequently than two (2) times in any calendar year. 4.1.9. Operating Leases. Without the prior written consent of Lender and without delivery of a Rating Agency Confirmation, each Borrower shall not (i) cancel or terminate any Operating Lease in whole or in part, (ii) approve any assignment of any Operating Lease, (iii) amend or modify any economic terms or otherwise amend or modify or waive any provisions of any Operating Lease, (iv) cancel or modify any guaranty, or release any security deposit, letter of credit or other item constituting security pertaining to such Operating Lease. Each Borrower agrees to take all necessary action requested by Lender to facilitate the transfer of all Regulatory Permits to Lender, its designee or assignee, or any subsequent purchaser, provided that (i) the number of beds and the scope of services provided are not changed and (ii) Lender, its designee or assignee, or subsequent purchaser submits prior notification of such change to the applicable regulatory agency. 4.1.10. Alterations. Lender's prior approval shall be required in connection with any alterations to any Improvements on any Property (a) that may have a material adverse effect on any Borrower's financial condition, the value of the related Property or the Net Operating Income or (b) the cost of which (including any related alteration, improvement or replacement) is reasonably anticipated to exceed the Alteration Threshold. If the total unpaid amounts incurred and to be incurred with respect to such alterations to the Improvements shall at any time exceed the Alteration Threshold, Borrowers shall promptly deliver to Lender as security for the payment of such amounts and as additional security for each Borrowers' obligations under the Loan Documents any of the following: (i) cash, (ii) U.S. Obligations, (iii) other securities acceptable to Lender, provided that Lender shall have received a Rating Agency Confirmation as to the form and issuer of same, or (iv) a completion bond, provided that Lender shall have received a Rating Agency Confirmation as to the form and issuer of same. Such security shall be in an amount equal to the excess of the total unpaid amounts incurred and to be incurred with respect to such alterations to the Improvements on the applicable Property (other 47
than such amounts to be paid or reimbursed by Tenants under the Leases) over the Alteration Threshold. 4.1.11. Use-Specific Covenants. (a) Each Borrower shall: (i) operate each Property or cause each Property to be operated in substantial compliance with the laws and requirements referred to in Section 3.1.40 hereof; (ii) operate each Property or cause each Property to be operated in a manner such that the Regulatory Permits shall remain in full force and effect; (iii) maintain or cause to be maintained the number and type of licensed beds at each Property at the licensure/certification levels set forth in Schedule III; provided, however, a Borrower may remove from service a number of licensed beds at its Property by not more than the greater of ten (10) beds and ten percent (10%) of the number of licensed beds at such Property immediately prior to the proposed reduction provided such removal from service is on a temporary basis and Borrower delivers to Lender from each applicable Governmental Authority written evidence that such removal from service is on a temporary, and not permanent, basis and that such beds may be placed back into service without approval from any Governmental Authority; and provided further that the Borrower shall not adjust the number of licensed beds at the facility; and (iv) to the extent applicable, substantially comply with all requirements for participation in Medicare, Medicaid and any other Third Party Payor Programs, and shall keep in full force and effect a current provider agreement under Medicare, Medicaid and any other Third Party Payor Programs as are financially prudent. (b) Each Borrower shall cause the operation of each Property to be conducted at all times in a manner consistent with the following: (i) to maintain or cause to be maintained the standard of operations at each Property at all times at a level necessary to insure a level of quality for each Property consistent with similar facilities in the same competitive market; (ii) to maintain or cause to be maintained a standard of care in the storage, use, transportation and disposal of all medical equipment, medical supplies, medical products and medical waste, of any kind and in any form, that is in accordance at least, with that of the highest prudent industry standard and in substantial conformity with all applicable Legal Requirements; (iii) to operate or cause each Property to be operated in a prudent manner in substantial compliance in all respects with applicable Legal Requirements and requirements of the Policies relating thereto and, except where the 48
failure to maintain their effectiveness could not have a Material Adverse Effect, cause all licenses, Regulatory Permits, and any other agreements necessary for the continued use and operation of such Property or for participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other Third Party Payor Programs to remain in full force and effect; (iv) to maintain or cause to be maintained sufficient Inventory and Equipment of types and quantities at each Property to enable the applicable Borrower to operate such Property. 4.1.12. Material Agreements. No Borrower shall amend, modify, surrender or waive any material rights or remedies under, or enter into or terminate, any Material Agreement unless any such amendment, modification, surrender, waiver, entry or termination would not have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 4.2. Borrower Negative Covenants. Until all amounts are paid in full under the Loan Documents (excluding contingent indemnity obligations that survive repayment), each Borrower covenants and agrees with Lender that: 4.2.1. Due on Sale and Encumbrance; Transfers of Interests. Without the prior written consent of Lender, neither any Borrower nor any Person having a direct or indirect interest ownership or beneficial interest in any Borrower or any Guarantor shall sell, convey, mortgage, grant, bargain, encumber, pledge, assign or otherwise Transfer any interest, direct or indirect in any Borrower, any Guarantor, any of the Properties or any part thereof, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, in violation of the covenants and conditions set forth in the Mortgages, this Agreement or the Master Guaranty; provided, that this Section shall not prohibit transfers of equity interest in the Parent permitted under Section 8.2. 4.2.2. Liens. Each Borrower shall not create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any portion of any of the Properties except for Permitted Encumbrances. 4.2.3. Issuance of Equity Interests. Each Borrower shall not issue or allow to be created any stocks or shares or shareholder, partnership or membership interests in any Borrower, or other ownership interests other than the stocks, shares, shareholder, partnership or membership interests and other ownership interests which are outstanding or exist on the Closing Date or any security or other instrument which by its terms is convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for stock, shares, shareholder, partnership or membership interests or other ownership interests in any Borrower. 4.2.4. Change in Business. Each Borrower shall not cease to be a Single-Purpose Entity or make any material change in the scope or nature of its business objectives, purposes or operations, or undertake or participate in activities other than the continuance of its present business provided, however, with the prior written consent of the Lender, not to be unreasonably withheld, and, after a Securitization of the Loan, a Rating Agency Confirmation, a Borrower may amend its business operations at a Property to include a Specialty Hospital (in which event Schedule III hereto shall be amended to reflect such amendment). 49
4.2.5. Debt Cancellation. Each Borrower shall not cancel or otherwise forgive or release any claim or debt (other than termination of Leases in accordance herewith) owed to any Borrower by any Person, except for adequate consideration and in the ordinary course of any Borrower's business. 4.2.6. Affiliate Transactions. Each Borrower shall not enter into, or be a party to, any transaction with an Affiliate of any Borrower or any of the partners of any Borrower except in the ordinary course of business and on terms that are no less favorable to any Borrower or such Affiliate than would be obtained in a comparable arm's-length transaction with an unrelated third party. 4.2.7. Zoning. Each Borrower shall not initiate or consent to any zoning reclassification of any portion of any of the Properties or seek any variance under any existing zoning ordinance or use or permit the use of any portion of any of the Properties in any manner that could result in such use becoming a non-conforming use under any zoning ordinance or any other applicable land use law, rule or regulation, without the prior consent of Lender. 4.2.8. Assets. Each Borrower shall not purchase or own any properties other than the Properties and any other property necessary or incidental for the operation of the Properties. 4.2.9. No Joint Assessment. Each Borrower shall not suffer, permit or initiate the joint assessment of any Property (i) with any other real property constituting a tax lot separate from such Property, and (ii) with any portion of such Property which may be deemed to constitute personal property, or any other procedure whereby the lien of any taxes which may be levied against such personal property shall be assessed or levied or charged to such Property. 4.2.10. Principal Place of Business. Each Borrower shall not change its jurisdiction of organization or its name without first obtaining the written consent of Lender. 4.2.11. ERISA. (a) Each Borrower shall not engage in any transaction which would cause any obligation, or action taken or to be taken, hereunder (or the exercise by Lender of any of its rights under the Note, this Agreement or the other Loan Documents) to be a non-exempt (under a statutory or administrative class exemption) prohibited transaction under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). (b) Each Borrower shall deliver to Lender such certifications or other evidence from time to time throughout the term of the Loan, as requested by Lender in its sole discretion, that (A) such Borrower is not and does not maintain an "employee benefit plan" as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, which is subject to Title I of ERISA, or a "governmental plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA; (B) such Borrower is not subject to state statutes regulating investments and fiduciary obligations with respect to governmental plans; and (C) one or more of the following circumstances is true: (i) Equity interests in such Borrower are publicly offered securities, within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.(S)2510.3-101(b)(2); 50
(ii) Less than twenty-five percent (25%) of each outstanding class of equity interests in such Borrower are held by "benefit plan investors" within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.(S)2510.3-101(f)(2); or (iii) Such Borrower qualifies as an "operating company" or a "real estate operating company" within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.(S)2510.3-101(c) or (e). 4.2.12. Other Indebtedness. Each Borrower shall not incur, create, assume or become liable in any manner with respect to any Indebtedness, except the Debt and the Permitted Debt. 4.2.13. Use-Specific Negative Covenants: Each Borrower shall not and shall not allow the Manager, if any, to: (a) transfer any Regulatory Permits to any location other than the related Property nor pledge any Regulatory Permits as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness other than the Loan; (b) rescind, withdraw, revoke, amend, modify, supplement, or otherwise alter the nature, tenor or scope of (i) any Regulatory Permit for any Property or (ii) any applicable provider payment program participation for any Property; (c) except as permitted by the proviso to Section 4.1.11(a)(iii), amend or otherwise change any Property's authorized bed capacity and/or the number or type of beds, and/or licensing category or type and/or the number of beds participating in governmental payment programs approved by the applicable state licensing agency, CMS or other Governmental Authority without Lender's prior written consent which may be given or denied in Lender's sole discretion; (d) replace or transfer all or any part of any Property's licensed beds to another site or location, change the type of licensed beds at any Property or reduce the number of licensed beds at any Property; (e) apply for approval to (i) move any licensed beds to another site or location, (ii) change the type of licensed beds at any Property or (iii) reduce the number of licensed beds at any Property; (f) jeopardize in any manner any Borrower's participation in any Third Party Payor Programs to which any Borrower is subject as of the Closing Date; provided, to the extent financially prudent and consistent with the terms of the Loan Agreements, each Borrower may terminate participation in any Third Party Payor Program with any private commercial insurance to the extent such termination could not have a Material Adverse Effect; (g) pledge any receivables as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness other than the Loan; 51
(h) enter into any patient or resident care agreements with patients or residents or with any other persons which deviate in any material respect from the standard form customarily used by any Borrower at any Property; (i) change the terms of any of the Third Party Payors' Programs or its normal billing payment or reimbursement policies and procedures with respect thereto (including without limitation the amount and timing of finance charges, fees and write-offs); provided a Borrower may enter into changes which do not have a Material Adverse Effect; or (j) assign or transfer any of its interest in any Regulatory Permit or Reimbursement Contract (including any right to payment thereunder) or assign, transfer or remove or permit any other person to assign, transfer or remove any records pertaining to any Property including, without limitation, patient records, medical and clinical records (except for removal of such patient records as directed by the patients owning such records). ARTICLE V. INSURANCE, CASUALTY AND CONDEMNATION Section 5.1. Insurance. 5.1.1. Insurance Policies. (a) Each Borrower shall obtain and maintain, or cause to be maintained, insurance for such Borrower and each Property providing at least the following coverages: (i) coverage for loss or damage by fire, lightning, wind and such other perils as are included in a standard "all risk" or "special causes of loss" endorsement and against loss or damage by other risks and hazards covered by a standard property insurance policy including, without limitation, riot, civil commotion, vandalism, malicious mischief, burglary and theft on the Improvements and the personal property at the Property, including contingent liability from Operation of Building Laws, Demolition Costs and Increased Cost of Construction Endorsements, in each case (A) in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the "Full Replacement Cost," which for purposes of this Agreement shall mean actual replacement value (exclusive of costs of excavations, foundations, underground utilities and footings) with a waiver of depreciation, but the amount shall in no event be less than the Allocated Loan Amount of the Property; (B) containing an agreed amount endorsement with respect to the Improvements and personal property at the Property waiving all co-insurance provisions; (C) providing for no deductible in excess of Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,000) for all such insurance coverage; and (D) containing (a) an "Ordinance or Law Coverage" or "Enforcement" endorsement and (b) "demolition" insurance (in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the value of the Improvements) and "increased cost of construction" insurance (equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the value of the Improvements, or such other amount approved by Lender, if any of the Improvements or the use of the applicable Property shall at any time constitute legal non-conforming structures or uses. In addition, each Borrower shall obtain: (y) if any portion of the Improvements is currently or at any time in the future located in a federally designated "special flood 52
hazard area", flood hazard insurance in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the "Full Replacement Cost" (defined above) but no less than the Allocated Loan Amount of the applicable Property or (2) the maximum amount of such insurance available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 or the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994, as each may be amended; and (z) earthquake insurance in amounts and in form and substance satisfactory to Lender in the event the applicable Property is located in an area with a high degree of seismic activity, provided that the insurance pursuant to clauses (y) and (z) hereof shall be on terms consistent with the comprehensive all risk insurance policy required under this subsection (i). (ii) commercial general liability insurance against claims for personal injury, bodily injury, death or property damage occurring upon, in or about the Property, such insurance (A) to be on the so-called "occurrence" (or claims made form if the "occurrence" form is not available at commercially reasonable prices) form with a combined limit, excluding umbrella coverage, of not less than One Million and No/100 Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence with a minimum Three Million and No/100 Dollars ($3,000,000) general aggregate; (B) to continue at not less than the aforesaid limit until required to be changed by Lender by reason of changed economic conditions making such protection inadequate; and (C) to cover at least the following hazards: (1) premises and operations; (2) products and completed operations on an "if any" basis; (3) independent contractors; (4) blanket contractual liability for all legal contracts; (5) contractual liability covering the indemnities contained in Article 9 of the related Mortgage to the extent the same is available; (6) broad form property damage; (7) personal injury (including death resulting therefrom); (8) healthcare professional liability and (9) a liquor liability endorsement if alcoholic beverages are sold at the Property and (B) with a deductible of no more than $10,000. (iii) business interruption insurance (A) with loss payable to Lender; (B) covering all risks required to be covered by the insurance provided for in subsection (i) above and (xi) below; (C) in an amount sufficient to avoid any co-insurance penalty and to provide proceeds which will cover a period of not less than eighteen (18) months from the date of casualty or loss; (D) containing an extended period of indemnity endorsement which provides that after the physical loss to the Property has been repaired, the continued loss of income will be insured until such income returns to the same level it was prior to the loss, or the expiration twenty-four (24) months from the date of the loss, whichever first occurs, and notwithstanding that the policy may expire prior to the end of such period. The amount of coverage shall be no less than $12,000,000; (iv) at all times during which structural construction, repairs or alterations are being made with respect to the Improvements, and only if the applicable Property's coverage form does not otherwise apply, (A) owner's contingent or protective liability insurance covering claims not covered by or under the terms or provisions of the above mentioned commercial general liability insurance policy; and (B) the insurance provided for in subsection (i) above written in a so-called builder's risk completed value form (1) on a non-reporting basis, (2) against all risks insured against 53
pursuant to subsection (i) above, (3) including permission to occupy the applicable Property, and (4) with an agreed amount endorsement waiving co-insurance provisions; (v) workers' compensation, subject to the statutory limits of the state in which the applicable Property is located, and employer's liability insurance with a limit of at least One Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($100,000) per accident and per disease per employee, and Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($500,000) aggregate in respect of any work or operations on or about the Property, or in connection with the applicable Property or its operation (if applicable); (vi) broad form boiler and machinery insurance (without exclusion for explosion) covering all boilers or other pressure vessels, machinery, and equipment located in, on or about any Property (including "system breakdown coverage") in an amount equal to or greater than the repair and full replacement cost of such equipment and insurance against loss of occupancy or use arising from any breakdown of such equipment in such amounts as are generally required by institutional lenders for properties comparable to the Properties; (vii) umbrella liability insurance in addition to primary coverage in an aggregate amount not less than Nine Million and No/100 Dollars ($9,000,000) on terms consistent with the commercial general liability insurance policy required under subsection (ii) above that cover all claims typically covered by an umbrella liability policy including all legal liability imposed upon any Borrower and all court costs and attorneys' fees connection with the ownership, operation and maintenance of the Properties; (viii) motor vehicle liability coverage for all owned and non-owned vehicles, including rented and leased vehicles containing minimum limits per occurrence, including umbrella coverage, of One Million and No/100 Dollars ($1,000,000); (ix) if alcoholic beverages are sold at the applicable Property, so-called "dramshop" insurance or other liability insurance required in connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages; (x) insurance against employee dishonesty in an amount not less than $100,000 and with a deductible not greater than Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,000); (xi) If the insurance required under clause (i) above excludes coverage for acts of terrorism, each Borrower shall provide terrorism insurance coverage in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the "Full Replacement Cost" (defined above) but no less than the Loan Amount or (2) the maximum amount of such insurance which is commercially reasonably available, unless at the time of determination: (i) it is not available at commercially reasonable rates; (ii) no Affiliates of Borrower are maintaining terrorism insurance with respect to another property; (iii) terrorism insurance is not commonly maintained by owners of other similar properties and (iv) terrorism 54
insurance is not required for securitized loans similar to the Loan and secured by property similar to the Properties and with similar ratings as the Loan in the commercial mortgage-backed securities market; and (xii) such other reasonable insurance and in such reasonable amounts as Lender from time to time may reasonably request against such other insurable hazards or casualties which at the time are commonly insured against for property similar to the Properties located in or around the region in which the Properties are located including, without limitation, sinkhole, mine subsidence and environmental insurance, due regard being given to the height and type of property, construction, location, use and occupancy. (b) All insurance provided for in Section 5.1.1(a) shall be obtained under valid and enforceable policies (collectively, the "Policies" or in the singular, the "Policy") and, to the extent not specified above, shall be subject to the approval of Lender as to deductibles, loss payees and insureds. Not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration dates of the Policies theretofore furnished to Lender, certificates of insurance evidencing the Policies accompanied by evidence satisfactory to Lender of payment of the premiums then due thereunder (the "Insurance Premiums"), shall be delivered by Borrowers to Lender. Borrowers shall deliver certified copies of the Policies to Lender within thirty (30) days of the Closing Date and thereafter upon request. All Policies must have a term of not less than one (1) year. (c) Intentionally deleted. (d) All Policies of insurance provided for or contemplated by Section 5.1.1(a), except for the Policy referenced in Section 5.1.1(a)(v), shall name each applicable Borrower as the insured and Lender and its successors and/or assigns as the additional insured, as its interests may appear, and in the case of property damage, terrorism insurance, boiler and machinery, flood and earthquake insurance, shall contain a so-called New York standard non-contributing mortgagee clause in favor of Lender providing that the loss thereunder shall be payable to Lender. (e) All Policies of insurance provided for in Section 5.1.1(a) shall contain clauses or endorsements to the effect that: (i) no act or negligence of any Borrower, or anyone acting for any Borrower, or of any tenant or other occupant, or failure to comply with the provisions of any Policy, which might otherwise result in a forfeiture of the insurance or any part thereof, shall in any way affect the validity or enforceability of the insurance insofar as Lender is concerned; (ii) the Policy shall not be materially changed (other than to increase the coverage provided thereby) or canceled without at least thirty (30) days' written notice to Lender and any other party named therein as an additional insured; (iii) Lender shall not be liable for any Insurance Premiums thereon or subject to any assessments thereunder; and 55
(iv) to the extent available at commercially reasonable rates, a waiver of subrogation rights as to Lender. (f) If at any time Lender is not in receipt of written evidence that all insurance required hereunder is in full force and effect, Lender shall have the right, without notice to any Borrower, to take such action as Lender deems necessary to protect its interest in the Properties, including, without limitation, the obtaining of such insurance coverage as Lender in its sole discretion deems appropriate and all premiums incurred by Lender in connection with such action or in obtaining such insurance and keeping it in effect shall be paid by Borrowers to Lender upon demand and until paid shall be secured by the Mortgages and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. (g) In the event of foreclosure of any Mortgage or other transfer of title to any Property in extinguishment in whole or in part of the Debt, all right, title and interest the applicable Borrower in and to the Policies that are not blanket Policies then in force concerning the Properties and all proceeds payable thereunder shall thereupon vest in the purchaser at such foreclosure or Lender or other transferee in the event of such other transfer of title. 5.1.2. Insurance Company. The Policies shall be issued by one or more domestic primary insurance companies, duly qualified in the jurisdiction where the Properties are located and rated A: VII or better by A.M. Best and having a claims-paying ability of at least "AA" or its equivalent by each of the Rating Agencies, or by a syndicate of insurers through which at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the coverage (if there are four (4) or fewer members of the syndicate) or at least sixty percent (60%) of the coverage (if there are five (5) or more members of the syndicate) is with carriers having such claims-paying ability ratings (provided that all such carriers shall have claims-paying ability ratings of not less than "A" or the equivalent by each of the Rating Agencies). Section 5.2 Casualty and Condemnation. 5.2.1. Casualty. If a Property shall sustain a Casualty, each Borrower shall give prompt notice of such Casualty to Lender (provided that notice shall not need to be required for a Casualty which causes less than $50,000 worth of damage to a Property) and, provided Lender permits the applicable Borrower to utilize the Net Proceeds, if any, for any such Restoration, shall promptly commence and diligently prosecute to completion the repair and restoration of any Property as nearly as possible to the condition such Property was in immediately prior to such Casualty (a "Restoration") and otherwise in accordance with Section 5.3. Borrowers shall pay all costs of such Restoration whether or not such costs are covered by insurance. Lender may, but shall not be obligated to, make proof of loss if not made promptly by any Borrower. In the event of a Casualty where the loss does not exceed the Restoration Threshold, a Borrower may settle and adjust such claim; provided that (a) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (b) such adjustment is carried out in a commercially reasonable and timely manner. In the event of a Casualty where the loss exceeds the Restoration Threshold or if an Event of Default then exists, a Borrower may settle and adjust such claim only with the consent of Lender (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and Lender shall have the opportunity to participate, at Borrowers' cost, in any such adjustments. Notwithstanding any 56
Casualty, each Borrower shall continue to pay the Debt at the time and in the manner provided for its payment in the Note and in this Agreement. 5.2.2. Condemnation. Each Borrower shall give Lender prompt notice of any actual or threatened Condemnation by any Governmental Authority of all or any part of any Property (provided that notice shall not be required for a Condemnation which could result in less than $50,000 in Condemnation Proceeds) and shall deliver to Lender a copy of any and all papers served in connection with such proceedings. Provided no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, in the event of a Condemnation where the amount of the taking does not exceed the Restoration Threshold, a Borrower may settle and compromise such Condemnation; provided that the same is effected in a commercially reasonable and timely manner. In the event a Condemnation where the amount of the taking exceeds the Restoration Threshold or if an Event of Default then exists, a Borrower may settle and compromise the Condemnation only with the consent of Lender (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and Lender shall have the opportunity to participate, at Borrowers' cost, in any litigation and settlement discussions in respect thereof and each Borrower shall from time to time deliver to Lender all instruments requested by Lender to permit such participation. Each Borrower shall, at its expense, diligently prosecute any such proceedings, and shall consult with Lender, its attorneys and experts, and cooperate with them in the carrying on or defense of any such proceedings. Notwithstanding any Condemnation, each Borrower shall continue to pay the Debt at the time and in the manner provided for its payment in the Note and in this Agreement. Lender shall not be limited to the interest paid on the Award by any Governmental Authority but shall be entitled to receive out of the Award interest at the rate or rates provided herein or in the Note. If any Property or any portion thereof is taken by any Governmental Authority and provided Lender permits the applicable Borrowers to utilize the Net Proceeds, if any, for the Restoration of the applicable Property, each Borrower shall promptly commence and diligently prosecute the Restoration of such Property and otherwise comply with the provisions of Section 5.3. If such Property is sold, through foreclosure or otherwise, prior to the receipt by Lender of the Award, Lender shall have the right, whether or not a deficiency judgment on the Note shall have been sought, recovered or denied, to receive the Award, or a portion thereof sufficient to pay the Debt. Section 5.3 Delivery of Net Proceeds. 5.3.1. Minor Casualty or Condemnation. If a Casualty or Condemnation has occurred to a Property and the Net Proceeds shall be less than the Restoration Threshold and the costs of completing the Restoration shall be less than the Restoration Threshold, and provided no Event of Default shall have occurred and remain uncured, the Net Proceeds will be disbursed by Lender to the applicable Borrower. Promptly after receipt of the Net Proceeds, such Borrower shall commence and satisfactorily complete with due diligence the Restoration in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. If any Net Proceeds are received by any Borrower and may be retained by such Borrower pursuant to the terms hereof, such Net Proceeds shall, until completion of the Restoration, be held in trust for Lender and shall be segregated from other funds of such Borrower to be used to pay for the cost of Restoration in accordance with the terms hereof. 57
5.3.2. Major Casualty or Condemnation. (a) If a Casualty or Condemnation has occurred to a Property and the Net Proceeds are equal to or greater than the Restoration Threshold or the costs of completing the Restoration is equal to or greater than the Restoration Threshold, Lender shall make the Net Proceeds available for the Restoration, provided that each of the following conditions are met: (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; (ii) (A) in the event the Net Proceeds are insurance proceeds, less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total floor area of the Improvements at the applicable Property has been damaged, destroyed or rendered unusable as a result of such Casualty or (B) in the event the Net Proceeds are an Award, less than ten percent (10%) of the land constituting applicable Property is taken, and such land is located along the perimeter or periphery of the Property, and no portion of the Improvements is the subject of the Condemnation; (iii) (A) in the event of a Casualty, the Casualty resulted in an actual or constructive loss of less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the fair market value of the applicable Property or (B) in the event of a Condemnation, the Condemnation resulted in an actual or constructive loss of less than ten percent (10%) of the fair market value of the applicable Property. (iv) Intentionally Omitted. (v) The applicable Borrower shall commence the Restoration as soon as reasonably practicable (but in no event later than sixty (60) days after such Casualty or Condemnation or such longer period, not to exceed 120 days, as is reasonably necessary to adjust the claim or receive the award; provided, however, with respect to each Property the use of which is a legal non-conforming use under applicable Legal Requirements, the Restoration shall be commenced within such period as required by such Legal Requirements to maintain such status) and shall diligently pursue the same to satisfactory completion and in any event, as to each Property the use of which is a legal non-conforming use under applicable Legal Requirements, within such period as required by such Legal Requirements to maintain such status; (vi) Lender shall be satisfied that any operating deficits and all payments of principal and interest under the Note will be paid during the period required for Restoration from (A) the Net Proceeds, or (B) other funds of the applicable Borrower; (vii) Lender shall be satisfied that the Restoration will be completed on or before the earliest to occur of (A) the date six (6) months prior to the Maturity Date, (B) such time as may be required under applicable Legal Requirements in order to repair and restore the applicable Property to the condition it was in immediately prior to such Casualty or to as nearly as possible the condition it was in immediately prior 58
to such Condemnation, as applicable or (C) the expiration of the insurance coverage referred to in Section 5.1.1(a)(iii); (viii) Lender shall be satisfied that after the Restoration, the fair market value of the applicable Property will be at least equal to the fair market value of such Property prior to the Casualty or Condemnation; (ix) the applicable Property and the use thereof after the Restoration will be in substantial compliance with and permitted under all applicable Legal Requirements; (x) the Restoration shall be done and completed by the applicable Borrower in an expeditious and diligent fashion and in substantial compliance with all applicable Legal Requirements; and (xi) such Casualty or Condemnation, as applicable, does not result in the loss of access to the applicable Property or the related Improvements. (b) The Net Proceeds shall be paid directly to Lender and held by Lender in the Net Proceeds Account, and until disbursed in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3.2, shall constitute additional security for the Debt. The Net Proceeds shall be disbursed by Lender to, or as directed by, the applicable Borrower from time to time during the course of the Restoration, upon receipt of evidence satisfactory to Lender that (A) all requirements set forth in Section 5.3.2(a) have been satisfied, (B) all materials installed and work and labor performed (except to the extent that they are to be paid for out of the requested disbursement) in connection with the Restoration have been paid for in full, and (C) there exist no notices of pendency, stop orders, mechanic's or materialman's liens or notices of intention to file same, or any other liens or encumbrances of any nature whatsoever on the applicable Property arising out of the Restoration which have not either been fully bonded to the satisfaction of Lender and discharged of record or in the alternative fully insured to the reasonable satisfaction of Lender by the title company issuing the Title Insurance Policy. (c) All plans and specifications required in connection with the Restoration shall be subject to prior approval of Lender and an independent architect selected by Lender (the "Casualty Consultant"). The plans and specifications shall require that the Restoration be completed in a first-class workmanlike manner at least equivalent to the quality and character of the original work in the Improvements (provided, however, that in the case of a partial Condemnation, the Restoration shall be done to the extent reasonably practical after taking into account the consequences of such partial Condemnation), so that upon completion thereof, the applicable Property is restored to be of at least equal value and of substantially the same character as prior to the Casualty. The applicable Borrower shall restore all Improvements such that when they are fully restored and/or repaired, such Improvements and their contemplated use substantially comply with all applicable material Legal Requirements. The identity of the contractors, subcontractors and materialmen engaged in the Restoration, as well as the contracts under which they have been engaged, shall be subject to reasonable approval of Lender and the Casualty Consultant. All costs and expenses incurred by Lender in connection with recovering, holding and advancing the Net Proceeds for the Restoration including, without 59
limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements and the Casualty Consultant's fees and disbursements, shall be paid by Borrowers. (d) In no event shall Lender be obligated to make disbursements of the Net Proceeds in excess of an amount equal to the costs actually incurred from time to time for work in place as part of the Restoration, as certified by the Casualty Consultant, less the Casualty Retainage. The term "Casualty Retainage" shall mean, as to each contractor, subcontractor or materialman engaged in the Restoration, an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the costs actually incurred for work in place as part of the Restoration, as certified by the Casualty Consultant, until the Restoration has been completed. The Casualty Retainage shall in no event, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth above in this Section 5.3.2(d), be less than the amount actually held back by the applicable Borrower from contractors, subcontractors and materialmen engaged in the Restoration. The Casualty Retainage shall not be released until the Casualty Consultant certifies to Lender that the Restoration has been completed in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3.2(d) and that all approvals necessary for the re-occupancy and use of the applicable Property have been obtained from all appropriate Governmental Authorities, and Lender receives evidence satisfactory to Lender that the costs of the Restoration have been paid in full or will be paid in full out of the Casualty Retainage; provided, however, that Lender will release the portion of the Casualty Retainage being held with respect to any contractor, subcontractor or materialman engaged in the Restoration as of the date upon which the Casualty Consultant certifies to Lender that the contractor, subcontractor or materialman has satisfactorily completed all work and has supplied all materials in accordance with the provisions of the contractor's, subcontractor's or materialman's contract, the contractor, subcontractor or materialman delivers the lien waivers and evidence of payment in full of all sums due to the contractor, subcontractor or materialman as may be reasonably requested by Lender or by the title company issuing the Title Insurance Policy, and Lender receives an endorsement to the Title Insurance Policy insuring the continued priority of the lien of the related Mortgage and evidence of payment of any premium payable for such endorsement. If required by Lender, the release of any such portion of the Casualty Retainage shall be approved by the surety company, if any, which has issued a payment or performance bond with respect to the contractor, subcontractor or materialman. (e) Lender shall not be obligated to make disbursements of the Net Proceeds more frequently than once every calendar month. (f) If at any time the Net Proceeds or the undisbursed balance thereof shall not, in the opinion of Lender in consultation with the Casualty Consultant, be sufficient to pay in full the balance of the costs which are reasonably estimated by the Casualty Consultant to be incurred in connection with the completion of the Restoration, Borrowers shall deposit the deficiency (the "Net Proceeds Deficiency") with Lender before any further disbursement of the Net Proceeds shall be made. The Net Proceeds Deficiency deposited with Lender shall be held by Lender in the Net Proceeds Account and shall be disbursed for costs actually incurred in connection with the Restoration on the same conditions applicable to the disbursement of the Net Proceeds, and until so disbursed pursuant to this Section 5.3.2 shall constitute additional security for the Debt. 60
(g) The excess, if any, of the Net Proceeds and the remaining balance, if any, of the Net Proceeds Deficiency deposited with Lender after the Casualty Consultant certifies to Lender that the Restoration has been completed in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3.2, and the receipt by Lender of evidence satisfactory to Lender that all costs incurred in connection with the Restoration have been paid in full, shall be remitted by Lender to the applicable Borrower, provided no Event of Default shall have occurred and shall be continuing under any of the Loan Documents. (h) All Net Proceeds not required (i) to be made available for the Restoration or (ii) to be returned to a Borrower as excess Net Proceeds pursuant to Section 5.3.2(g) may be retained and applied by Lender toward the payment of the Debt, whether or not then due and payable, in such order, priority and proportions as Lender in its sole discretion shall deem proper without any Prepayment Fee or Spread Maintenance Premium, or, at the discretion of Lender, the same may be paid, either in whole or in part, to a Borrower for such purposes as Lender shall designate. ARTICLE VI. ACCOUNTS Section 6.1. Cash Management Account/Collection Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Cash Management Bank an account for the collection of all income from each Property (the "Cash Management Account"). As a condition precedent to the closing of the Loan, Borrowers shall cause the Cash Management Bank to execute and deliver the Cash Management Agreement, which provides, inter alia, that no party other than Lender and Servicer shall have the right to withdraw funds from the Cash Management Account. The fees and expenses of the Cash Management Bank shall be paid by Borrower. On or prior to the Closing Date, the Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Collection Account Bank a lockbox account (the "Collection Account"). As a conditon precedent to the closing of the Loan, Borrowers shall cause the Collection Account Bank to execute and deliver the Collection Account Agreement, which provides, inter alia, that no party other than Lender and Servicer shall have the right to withdraw funds from the Collection Account. The fees and expenses of the Collection Account Bank shall be paid by the Borrowers. (b) On the Closing Date, each Borrower shall deliver a written notice (a "Payor Notice") in the form of Exhibit A to each Third Party Payor that is under Medicare and Medicaid, which notice shall provide that (A) all payments from such Third Party Payor shall thereafter be transmitted directly by it to, and deposited directly into, the Collection Account and (B) such instruction may not be rescinded unless and until such Third Party Payor receives from a Borrower or Lender a copy of Lender's written consent to such rescission. Each Borrower shall send a copy of each such written notice to Lender and shall re-deliver such notices to each Third Party Payor until such time as such Third Party Payor complies therewith. Each Borrower covenants to cause all Rents relating to the Properties and all other money received by each Borrower or Manager with respect to the Properties, including, but not limited to, payments from all other Third Party Payors excluding Medicare and Medicaid ("Private Third Party Payors") and Self-Pay Receivables to be deposited in the Collection Account by the end of the first (1st) Business Day following any Borrower's or Manager's receipt thereof; and each Borrower shall 61
be permitted to deposit in the Collection Account such additional amounts as any Borrower may elect. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties acknowledge and agree that with respect to each Property, the payments from the Private Third Party Payors and the Self-Pay Receivables constituting checks will be remitted by each Borrower once such Borrower has accumulated $1,000.00 worth of such checks by overnight delivery to Manager. Manager shall hold such checks in trust and will deposit such checks within one (1) Business Day of receipt thereof into the Collection Account. (c) Lender shall have the right to replace the Cash Management Bank or request the Borrower to replace the Collection Account Bank with any other Eligible Institution in which Eligible Accounts may be maintained which will promptly execute and deliver to Lender a Cash Management Agreement or Collection Account Agreement, (and each Borrower shall cooperate with Lender in connection with such transfer) in the event that (i) at any time the Cash Management Bank or the Collection Account Bank ceases to be an Eligible Institution or (ii) the Cash Management Bank or the Collection Account Bank resigns or otherwise fails to comply with the Cash Management Agreement, as applicable or (iii) there is a default by the Cash Management Bank or the Collection Account Bank, as applicable under its Cash Management Agreement or Collection Account Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Lender shall have the right to hold the Collateral Accounts at any other Eligible Institution. Section 6.2. Distributions From Cash Management Account. (a) At the end of each Business Day, the Collection Account Bank shall remit all available funds in the Collection Account to the Cash Management Account. (b) On each Business Day, provided no Event of Default has occurred and no Cash Management Period or Mezzanine Cash Management Period exists, the Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds in the following order of priority until such time as the maximum amount required to be deposited in each Collateral Account has been so deposited: (i) intentionally deleted; (ii) to the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.3; (iii) to the Debt Service Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.4; (iv) to the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.6; and (v) any remaining amounts to the Mezzanine Cash Management Account; provided, however, if the Mezzanine Loan shall have been paid in full, any remaining amounts shall be disbursed to such account as the applicable Borrower may direct. 62
(c) If a Cash Management Period or Mezzanine Cash Management Period exists but no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Cash Management Bank shall withdraw on each Business Day all available funds in the Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds in the following order of priority until such time as the maximum amount required to be deposited in each Collateral Account has been so deposited: (i) intentionally deleted; (ii) to the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.3; (iii) to the Debt Service Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.4; (iv) to the Operating Expense Reserve Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.5; (v) to the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.6; and (vi) any remaining amounts to be disbursed as follows: (1) if no Cash Management Period exists and the Mezzanine Loan is outstanding, to the Mezzanine Cash Management Account; (2) if a Cash Management Period exists and the Mezzanine Loan is outstanding, to the Mezzanine Cash Management Account in an amount equal to the Mezzanine Debt Service due on the next Mezzanine Payment Date, with any amounts in excess thereof, to the Excess Cash Reserve Account; or (3) if a Cash Management Period exists and the Mezzanine Loan is not outstanding, all remaining amounts to the Excess Cash Reserve Account. (d) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Lender shall promptly notify Cash Management Bank of such Event of Default and Lender may, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided for under the Loan Documents, disburse and apply the amounts in the Cash Management Account toward the payment of the Debt and/or toward the payment of Basic Carrying Costs, Operating Expenses or Capital Expenditures, in such sequence as Lender shall elect in its sole discretion. (e) If on any Payment Date, any Collateral Account has not been fully funded in the applicable amount described in Section 6.2(b) or Section 6.2(c), as applicable, Borrowers shall deposit into the Cash Management Account on such Payment Date the amount of such deficiency. If Borrowers shall fail to make such deposit, the same shall constitute an 63
Event of Default and, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided for under the Loan Documents, Lender may disburse and apply the amounts in the Cash Management Account toward the payment of the Debt and/or toward the payment of Basic Carrying Costs, Operating Expenses or Capital Expenditures, in such sequence as Lender shall elect in its sole discretion. Section 6.3. Tax and Insurance Escrow Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts payable by any Borrower in respect of Taxes and Insurance Premiums for each Property (the "Tax and Insurance Escrow Account"). (b) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account shall be funded in an amount equal to the sum of (i) an amount sufficient to pay all Taxes for the Properties by the thirtieth (30th) day prior to the date they come due, assuming subsequent monthly fundings on Payment Dates of one-twelfth (1/12th) of projected annual Taxes, plus (ii) an amount sufficient to pay all Insurance Premiums for the Properties by the thirtieth (30th) day prior to the date they come due, assuming subsequent monthly fundings on Payment Dates of one-twelfth (1/12th) of projected Insurance Premiums. (c) On each subsequent Business Day during an Interest Accrual Period, the Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds into the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 6.2 until an amount equal to the sum of: (A) one-twelfth (1/12th) of the Taxes for the Properties that Lender reasonably estimates, based on information provided by Borrowers, will be payable during the next ensuing twelve (12) months, plus (B) one-twelfth (1/12th) of the Insurance Premiums for the Properties that Lender reasonably estimates, based on information provided by Borrowers, will be payable during the next ensuing twelve (12) months; has been deposited into the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account provided, however, that if at any time Lender reasonably determines that the amount in the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account will not be sufficient to accumulate (upon payment of subsequent monthly amounts in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement) the full amount of all installments of Taxes and Insurance Premiums for the Properties by the date on which such amounts come due, then Lender shall notify Borrowers of such determination and Borrowers shall increase the monthly payments to the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account by the amount that Lender reasonably estimates is sufficient to achieve such accumulation. (d) Each Borrower shall provide Lender with copies of all tax and insurance bills relating to each Property promptly after the applicable Borrower's receipt thereof. Lender will apply amounts in the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account toward the purposes for which such amounts are deposited therein. In connection with the making of any payment from the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account, Lender may cause such payment to be made according to any bill, statement or estimate procured from the appropriate public office or insurance carrier, 64
without inquiry into the accuracy of such bill, statement or estimate or into the validity of any tax, assessment, sale, forfeiture, tax lien or title or claim thereof unless given written advance notice by a Borrower of such inaccuracy, invalidity or other contest. Section 6.4. Debt Service Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts payable by Borrowers in respect of Debt Service (the "Debt Service Account"). (b) On each Business Day during an Interest Accrual Period, the Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds into the Debt Service Account in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 6.2 until an amount equal to the amount of all scheduled or delinquent interest on the Loan and other amounts due and payable under the Loan Documents on the next Payment Date has been deposited into the Debt Service Account. To the extent Lender receives any prepayments of the Debt in an Interest Accrual Period on a date other than a Payment Date, the total amount of such prepayment shall be deposited into the Debt Service Account, together with all other sums payable with respect to such prepayment including, but not limited to, any Prepayment Fee and all interest that would have accrued from the date of such prepayment through the applicable Payment Date. Any Net Proceeds actually received by Lender shall be deposited directly into the Net Proceeds Account pursuant to Section 6.8 hereof. Section 6.5. Operating Expense Reserve Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts in respect of Operating Expenses (the "Operating Expense Reserve Account"). (b) On each Business Day during a Cash Management Period or a Mezzanine Cash Management Period, the Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds into the Operating Expense Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 6.2 until an amount equal to the funds necessary to pay all Operating Expenses which are (A) to be incurred during the applicable Interest Accrual Period in accordance with the Annual Budget, or (B) certified by Borrowers from time to time and approved by Lender in its sole discretion, has been deposited into the Operating Expense Reserve Account. (c) Upon the request of a Borrower at any time, provided that no Event of Default has occurred, Lender shall remit to such Borrower from the Operating Expense Reserve Account amounts to permit such Borrower to pay (or to reimburse such Borrower) for Operating Expenses incurred by such Borrower in connection with any of the Properties, provided that: (i) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender invoices evidencing that the costs for which such disbursements are requested are due and payable; 65
(ii) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender an Officer's Certificate confirming that all such costs are within the limits of the Annual Budget and all such costs have been previously paid by such Borrower or will be paid from the proceeds of the requested disbursement; and (iii) Lender may condition the making of a requested disbursement on reasonable evidence establishing that each Borrower has applied any amounts previously received by it in accordance with this Section for the expenses to which specific draws made hereunder relate. Section 6.6. Capital Expenditure Reserve Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts in respect of Capital Expenditures (the "Capital Expenditure Reserve Account"). (b) On each Business Day, the Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds into the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 6.2 until an amount equal to the Monthly Capital Expenditure Reserve Amount has been deposited therein. (c) Upon the request of any Borrower at any time (but not more often than once per calendar month), provided no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Lender shall remit to such Borrower from the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account amounts to permit such Borrower to pay (or to reimburse such Borrower) for Capital Expenditures made in accordance herewith; provided that: (i) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender invoices evidencing that the costs for which such disbursements are requested are due and payable; (ii) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender an Officer's Certificate confirming that all such costs have been previously paid by such Borrower or will be paid from the proceeds of the requested disbursement; and (iii) Lender may condition the making of a requested disbursement on (1) reasonable evidence establishing that each Borrower has applied any amounts previously received by it in accordance with this Section for the expenses to which specific draws made hereunder relate, (2) a reasonably satisfactory site inspection, and (3) receipt of lien releases and waivers from any contractors, subcontractors and others in connection with such amounts. Section 6.7. Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving 66
amounts anticipated to be required to correct Deferred Maintenance Conditions (the "Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account"). (b) On the Closing Date, Borrowers shall deposit into the Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account, from the proceeds of the Loan, an amount equal to the Deferred Maintenance Amount. (c) Borrowers shall correct the Deferred Maintenance Conditions in a diligent, workmanlike manner and shall complete the same within twelve (12) months of the Closing Date. Upon the request of a Borrower at any time (but not more often than once per calendar month), provided no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Lender shall disburse to such Borrower from the Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account amounts to permit such Borrower to pay (or to reimburse such Borrower) for reasonable costs and expenses incurred in order to correct Deferred Maintenance Conditions; provided that: (i) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender invoices evidencing that the costs for which such disbursements are requested are due and payable; (ii) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender an Officer's Certificate confirming that all such costs have been previously paid by Borrower or will be paid from the proceeds of the requested disbursement; (iii) Lender may condition the making of a requested disbursement on (1) reasonable evidence establishing that each Borrower has applied any amounts previously received by it in accordance with this Section for the expenses to which specific draws made hereunder relate, (2) a reasonably satisfactory site inspection, and (3) receipt of lien releases and waivers from any contractors, subcontractors and others with respect to such amounts; and (iv) as to any Deferred Maintenance Condition, the applicable Borrower shall only be entitled to a disbursement of the amount which equals the cost for such Deferred Maintenance Condition. Section 6.8. Net Proceeds Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of depositing any Net Proceeds (the "Net Proceeds Account") from the Properties. (b) Provided no Event of Default has occurred, funds in the Net Proceeds Account shall be applied in accordance with Section 5.3. Section 6.9. Excess Cash Reserve Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of depositing 67
any amounts remaining in the Cash Management Account after the deposits required by Section 6.2(c)(i) through (v) have been made (the "Excess Cash Reserve Account"). (b) Provided no Event of Default exists, if there are insufficient funds in the Cash Management Account for the deposits required pursuant to Section 6.2(c)(i) through (v), the Cash Management Bank, at the direction of Lender or Servicer, shall withdraw funds from the Excess Cash Reserve Account in the amount of such insufficiency for payment of same in the order and priority required by Section 6.2(c)(i) through (v). Provided no Event of Default exists, any funds remaining in the Excess Cash Reserve Account shall be released upon the expiration of the Cash Management Period as follows : (i) if no Mezzanine Cash Management Period exists, to the Borrowers or (ii) if a Mezzanine Cash Management Period exists, to the Mezzanine Cash Management Account. Section 6.10. Intentionally deleted. Section 6.11. Account Collateral. (a) Each Borrower hereby grants a perfected first-priority security interest in favor of Lender in and to the Account Collateral (other than the Collection Account) as security for the Debt, together with all rights of a secured party with respect thereto. Each Collateral Account shall be an Eligible Account under the sole dominion and control of Lender and shall be in the name of Borrowers, as pledgors, and Lender, as pledgee. Each Borrower shall have no right to make withdrawals from any of the Collateral Accounts. Funds in the Collateral Accounts shall not be commingled with any other monies at any time. Each Borrower shall execute any additional documents that Lender in its reasonable discretion may require and shall provide all other evidence reasonably requested by Lender to evidence or perfect its first-priority security interest in the Account Collateral (other than the Collection Account). (b) The insufficiency of amounts contained in the Collateral Accounts shall not relieve any Borrower from its obligation to fulfill all covenants contained in the Loan Documents. (c) During the continuance of an Event of Default, Lender may, in its sole discretion, apply funds in the Collateral Accounts, and funds resulting from the liquidation of Permitted Investments contained in the Collateral Accounts, toward the payment of the Debt and/or toward the payment of Basic Carrying Costs, Operating Expenses or Capital Expenditures in such sequence as Lender shall elect in its sole discretion. Section 6.12. Permitted Investments. (a) So long as no Event of Default shall be continuing, Borrowers shall be permitted to direct the investment of the funds from time to time held in the Collateral Accounts (other than the Collection Account) in Permitted Investments and to sell or liquidate such Permitted Investments and reinvest proceeds from such sale or liquidation in other Permitted Investments (but Lender shall have no liability whatsoever in respect of any failure by the Cash Management Bank to do so), with all such proceeds and reinvestments to be held in the applicable Collateral Account; provided, however, that the maturity of an adequate portion of the Permitted Investments on deposit in the Collateral Accounts shall be no later than the Business 68
Day immediately preceding the date on which such funds are required to be withdrawn therefrom pursuant to this Agreement, and provided further that Borrowers shall remit into the applicable Collateral Account an amount equal to any losses realized on Permitted Investments contained therein within five (5) Business Days of the date of such loss. Funds in the Collection Account shall not be invested. No Permitted Investment shall be liquidated at a loss at the direction of any Borrower except to the extent necessary to make a required payment to Lender on a Payment Date. (b) All income and gains from the investment of funds in the Collateral Accounts shall be retained in the Collateral Accounts from which they were derived. As between Borrowers and Lender, Borrowers shall treat all income, gains and losses from the investment of amounts in the Collateral Accounts as its income or loss for federal, state and local income tax purposes. (c) After the Debt has been paid in full, the Collateral Accounts shall be closed and the balances therein, if any, shall be paid to Borrowers. Section 6.13. Bankruptcy. Each Borrower and Lender acknowledge and agree that upon the filing of a bankruptcy petition by or against any Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code, the Account Collateral and the Operating Income (whether then already in the Collateral Accounts, or then due or becoming due thereafter) shall be deemed not to be property of such Borrower's bankruptcy estate within the meaning of Section 541 of the Bankruptcy Code. However, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that, notwithstanding the foregoing characterization of the Account Collateral and the Operating Income by any Borrower and Lender, the Account Collateral and/or the Operating Income do constitute property of such Borrower's bankruptcy estate, then Borrowers and Lender further acknowledge and agree that all such Operating Income, whether due and payable before or after the filing of the petition, are and shall be cash collateral of Lender. Each Borrower acknowledges that Lender does not consent to any Borrower's use of such cash collateral and that, in the event Lender elects (in its sole discretion) to give such consent, such consent shall only be effective if given in writing signed by Lender. Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence, each Borrower shall not have the right to use or apply or require the use or application of such cash collateral (i) unless the applicable Borrower shall have received a court order authorizing the use of the same, and (ii) the applicable Borrower shall have provided such adequate protection to Lender as shall be required by the bankruptcy court in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code. SECTION 6.14. Letters of Credit. (a) In lieu of making the payments to any of the Collateral Accounts (other than the Debt Service, Operating Expense Reserve Account or Excess Cash Reserve Account), Borrowers may deliver to Lender a Letter of Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Additionally, Borrowers may deliver to Lender a Letter of Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Section in lieu of deposits previously made to the Collateral Accounts (other than the Debt Service, Operating Expense Reserve Account or Excess Cash Reserve Account). The aggregate amount of any Letter of Credit and cash on deposit with respect to any 69
of such Collateral Accounts shall at all times be at least equal to the aggregate amount which each Borrower is required to have on deposit in such Collateral Account pursuant to this Agreement through the end of the calendar year in which the Letter of Credit is delivered, as reasonably estimated by Lender (and in the case of Taxes and Insurance Premiums in no event less than an amount equal to one year of Insurance Premiums and estimated Taxes for the Properties). In determining the aggregate amount of any Letter of Credit and cash required to be delivered to Lender in respect of the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account, such aggregate amounts shall equal all amounts required to be deposited hereunder through the end of the calendar year in which the Letter of Credit is delivered, less amounts expended by any Borrower for Capital Expenditures for which any Borrower has satisfied the conditions to withdrawal from the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account. In the event that a Letter of Credit is delivered in lieu of any deposits to the Tax and Insurance Reserve Account, Borrowers shall be responsible for the payment of Taxes or Insurance Premiums for the Properties, as applicable, and Lender shall not be responsible therefor. (b) Borrowers shall give Lender no less than thirty (30) days notice of a Borrower's election to deliver a Letter of Credit and Borrowers shall pay to Lender all of Lender's reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses in connection therewith. Each Borrower shall not be entitled to draw from any such Letter of Credit. Upon thirty (30) days notice to Lender, a Borrower may replace a Letter of Credit with a cash deposit to the applicable Collateral Account if a Letter of Credit has been outstanding for more than six (6) months. Prior to the return of a Letter of Credit, Borrowers shall deposit an amount equal to the amount that would have accumulated in the applicable Collateral Account and not been disbursed in accordance with this Agreement if such Letter of Credit had not been delivered. (c) Each Borrower shall provide Lender with notice of any increases in the annual payments for Taxes, Insurance Premiums or Capital Expenditures for any of the Properties thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of any such increase and any applicable Letter of Credit shall be increased by such increased amount at least ten (10) days prior to the effective date of such increase. Section 6.15. Provisions Regarding Letters of Credit. 6.15.1. Security for Debt. Each Letter of Credit delivered under this Agreement shall be additional security for the payment of the Debt. Upon the occurrence of a Default or an Event of Default, Lender shall have the right, at its option, to draw on any Letter of Credit and to apply all or any part thereof to the payment of the items for which such Letter of Credit was established or to apply each such Letter of Credit to payment of the Debt in such order, proportion or priority as Lender may determine. Any such application to the Debt shall be subject to the Spread Maintenance Premium. 6.15.2. Additional Rights of Lender. In addition to any other right Lender may have to draw upon a Letter of Credit pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Lender shall have the additional rights to draw in full any Letter of Credit: (a) if Lender has received a notice from the issuing bank that the Letter of Credit will not be renewed and a substitute Letter of Credit is not provided at least thirty (30) days prior to the date on which the outstanding Letter of Credit is scheduled to expire; (b) upon receipt of notice from the issuing 70
bank that the Letter of Credit will be terminated (except if the termination of such Letter of Credit is permitted pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement or a substitute Letter of Credit is provided); or (c) if the bank issuing the Letter of Credit shall cease to be an Eligible Institution and any Borrower fails to deliver a replacement Letter of Credit within ten (10) days of the date that the issuing bank is no longer an Eligible Institution. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the above, Lender is not obligated to draw any Letter of Credit upon the happening of an event specified in (a), (b) or (c) above and shall not be liable for any losses sustained by any Borrower due to the insolvency of the bank issuing the Letter of Credit if Lender has not drawn the Letter of Credit. ARTICLE VII. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Section 7.1. The Management Agreement. Each Borrower shall cause Manager to manage the Properties in accordance in all material respects with the Management Agreements. Each Borrower shall (i) diligently perform and observe in all material respects all of the terms, covenants and conditions of the Management Agreements on the part of any Borrower to be performed and observed (ii) promptly notify Lender of any default by Manager under the provisions of the Management Agreements and (iii) promptly notify Lender of any notice to any Borrower of any default by any Borrower in the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of the Management Agreements on the part of any Borrower to be performed and observed. If any Borrower shall default in the performance or observance of any material term, covenant or condition of any Management Agreement on the part of any Borrower to be performed or observed, then, without limiting Lender's other rights or remedies under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, and without waiving or releasing any Borrower from any of its obligations hereunder or under such Management Agreement, Lender shall have the right, but shall be under no obligation, to pay any sums and to perform any act as may be appropriate to cause all the material terms, covenants and conditions of such Management Agreement on the part of any Borrower to be performed or observed. Section 7.2. Prohibition Against Termination or Modification. Each Borrower shall not surrender, terminate, cancel, amend, modify, renew or extend any Management Agreement, or enter into any other agreement relating to the management or operation of any Property with any Manager or any other Person, or consent to the assignment by any Manager of its interest under the relevant Management Agreement, in each case without the express consent of Lender, which consent may be granted or denied in Lender's sole discretion; provided, however, with respect to a new manager such consent may be conditioned upon Borrowers delivering a Rating Agency Confirmation as to such new manager and management agreement. If at any time Lender consents to the appointment of a new manager, such new manager and Borrowers shall, as a condition of Lender's consent, execute a subordination of management agreement in the form then used by Lender. The management fees and other fees reserved under the Management Agreements shall not exceed in the aggregate the prevailing rate for properties of comparable size, quality and tenant mix in the market in which the Properties are located. In no event shall such fees exceed seven percent (7%) of the Operating Income. 71
Section 7.3. Replacement of Manager. Lender shall have the right to require any Borrower to terminate any Management Agreement and to replace any Manager with a Person chosen by a Borrower and approved by Lender, upon the occurrence of any one or more of the following events: (i) at any time following the occurrence of an Event of Default, (ii) if a Manager shall be in default under the relevant Management Agreement or the relevant Assignment of Management Agreement beyond any applicable notice and cure period, (iii) if at any time a Manager has engaged in gross negligence, malfeasance, fraud or willful misconduct and (iv) if the Debt Service Coverage Ratio is less than 1.25:1.00. ARTICLE VIII. TRANSFERS Section 8.1. Transfer of the Properties. Each Borrower may not transfer all of the Properties to another party (i) unless Lender shall have consented in writing to such transfer which consent may be granted or denied in Lender's sole discretion, (ii) after a Securitization has occurred, Rating Agency Confirmation is obtained, (iii) acceptable opinions relating to such transfer shall have been delivered by Borrowers to Lender and to the Rating Agencies (including without limitation tax and non-consolidation opinions), (iv) the transferee assumes in writing all obligations of the transferor under the Loan Documents and executes and delivers such other documentation as may be required by Lender or the Rating Agencies, (v) Borrowers pay an assumption fee equal to one half of one percent (.5%) of the Loan Amount and (vi) Borrowers pay all reasonable expenses incurred by Lender in connection with such transfer. Section 8.2. Transfer of Equity Interests. (a) ny transfer of any direct or indirect equity interests in any Borrower shall be prohibited unless (i) Lender shall have consented in writing to such transfer or transfers which may be granted or denied in Lender's sole discretion, (ii) Rating Agency Confirmation is obtained, (iii) acceptable opinions relating to such transfer or transfers shall have been delivered by Borrowers to Lender and the Rating Agencies (including, without limitation, tax and non-consolidation opinions), and (iv) Borrowers pay all reasonable expenses incurred by Lender in connection with such transfer or transfers. (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing clause (a): (i) if the equity owners of the Parent desire to cause a Change of Control (as defined in the Master Guaranty) in the Parent after a Securitization has occurred, subject to the terms of the Master Guaranty, transfers of equity interests in the Parent to a Qualified Equity Transferee shall be permitted and (ii) transfers of equity interests in the Parent which do not constitute a Change of Control (as defined in the Master Guaranty), to the extent permitted under the Master Guaranty, shall be permitted.. Section 8.3. Lender's Consent Rights. Lender shall not be required to demonstrate any actual impairment of its security or any increased risk of default hereunder in order to declare the Debt immediately due and payable upon a Transfer without Lender's consent. This provision shall apply to every Transfer, 72
other than any Transfer permitted pursuant to Sections 8.1 and 8.2, regardless of whether voluntary or not, or whether or not Lender has consented to any previous Transfer. ARTICLE IX. Sale and Securitization of Mortgage Section 9.1. Sale of Mortgages and Securitization. (a) Lender shall have the right (i) to sell or otherwise transfer the Loan or any portion thereof as a whole loan, (ii) to sell participation interests in the Loan or (iii) to securitize the Loan or any portion thereof in a single asset securitization or a pooled loan securitization. (The transaction referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) shall hereinafter be referred to collectively as "Secondary Market Transactions" and the transactions referred to in clause (iii) shall hereinafter be referred to as a "Securitization." Any certificates, notes or other securities issued in connection with a Securitization are hereinafter referred to as "Securities"). (b) If requested by Lender, each Borrower shall assist Lender in satisfying the market standards to which Lender customarily adheres or which may be reasonably required in the marketplace or by the Rating Agencies in connection with any Secondary Market Transactions, including, without limitation, to: (i) (A) provide updated financial and other information with respect to the Properties, the business operated at the Properties, each Borrower and the Managers, (B) provide updated budgets relating to the Properties and (C) provide updated appraisals, market studies, environmental assessments (Phase I's and, if appropriate, Phase II's), property condition reports and other due diligence investigations of the Properties (the "Updated Information"), together, if customary, with appropriate verification of the Updated Information through letters of auditors or opinions of counsel acceptable to Lender and the Rating Agencies; (ii) provide opinions of counsel, which may be relied upon by Lender, the Rating Agencies and their respective counsel, agents and representatives, as to non-consolidation or any other opinion customary in Secondary Market Transactions or required by the Rating Agencies with respect to the Properties and Borrowers and Affiliates, which counsel and opinions shall be satisfactory to Lender and the Rating Agencies; (iii) provide updated, as of the closing date of the Secondary Market Transaction, representations and warranties made in the Loan Documents and such additional representations and warranties as the Rating Agencies may require; and (iv) execute amendments to the Loan Documents and any Borrower's organizational documents reasonably requested by Lender; provided, however, that such Borrower shall not be required to modify or amend any Loan Document if such modification or amendment would (A) change the interest rate, the stated maturity or the amortization of principal as set forth herein or in the Note, or (B) modify or amend any other material economic term of the Loan. 73
(c) Each Borrower acknowledges that the Loan may be further divided into two or more separate notes (or components) that correspond to one or more tranches of certificates created in a Securitization and each Borrower agrees to cooperate with Lender in connection therewith. Such notes or note components may be assigned different interest rates, so long as the weighted average of such interest rates equals the applicable Interest Rate; provided, that each Borrower recognizes that, in the case of partial prepayments associated with principal reduction funded from Net Proceeds, the application of amounts to principal following an Event of Default under the Loan, or any other prepayment of a portion of the Loan by any Borrower, the weighted average interest rate of the Loan may increase because principal may be applied sequentially, starting with the most senior tranche of certificates. In addition, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that Lender shall have the right to split the Note into an "A" note and a "B" note and each Borrower agrees to cooperate with Lender in connection therewith in connection with the foregoing so long as the weighted average interest rate of the "A" note and the "B" note equals the applicable Interest Rate; provided, that each Borrower recognizes that, in the case of partial prepayments associated with principal reduction funded from Net Proceeds, the application of amounts to principal following an Event of Default under the Loan, or any other prepayment of a portion of the Loan by any Borrower, the weighted average interest rate of the Loan may increase because in certain circumstances principal may be applied sequentially to the "A" and the "B" note. (d) If, pursuant to this Section, any interest in this Agreement or the Note is transferred to any transferee that is not a U.S. Person, the Lender shall cause such transferee, concurrently with the effectiveness of such transfer, to furnish to the Lender and Borrowers either Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI or any other form in order to establish an exemption from, or reduction in the rate of, U.S. withholding tax on all interest payments hereunder, and to agree (for the benefit of Lender and Borrowers) to provide the Lender a new Form W-8BEN or Form W-8ECI or any forms reasonably requested in order to establish an exemption, or reduction in the rate of, U.S. withholding tax upon the expiration or obsolescence of any previously delivered form and comparable statements in accordance with applicable U.S. laws and regulations and amendments duly executed and completed by such transferee, and to comply from time to time with all applicable U.S. laws and regulations with regard to such withholding tax exemption. Section 9.2. Securitization Indemnification. (a) Each Borrower understands that information provided to Lender by any Borrower and its agents, counsel and representatives may be included in disclosure documents in connection with the Securitization, including, without limitation, an offering circular, a prospectus, prospectus supplement, private placement memorandum or other offering document (each, an "Disclosure Document") and may also be included in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and may be made available to investors or prospective investors in the Securities, the Rating Agencies, and service providers relating to the Securitization. (b) Upon request, each Borrower shall provide in connection with each of (i) a preliminary and a final private placement memorandum or (ii) a preliminary and final 74
prospectus or prospectus supplement, as applicable, an agreement (A) certifying that each Borrower has examined such Disclosure Documents specified by Lender and that each such Disclosure Document, as it relates to each Borrower, Borrower Affiliates, the Properties, Manager and all other aspects of the Loan (the "Relevant Material"), does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (B) indemnifying Lender (and for purposes of this Section 9.2, Lender hereunder shall include its officers and directors and each Person that controls Lender within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, collectively, the "Ventas Group"), the party that has filed the registration statement relating to the Securitization (the "Registration Statement"), each of its directors, each of its officers who have signed the Registration Statement and each Person that controls such party within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (collectively, the "Underwriter Group") for any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (collectively, the "Liabilities") to which Lender, Ventas Group or the Underwriter Group may become subject insofar as the Liabilities arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in the Relevant Material or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated in the Relevant Material or necessary in order to make the statements in the Relevant Material, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and (C) agreeing to reimburse Lender, the Ventas Group and/or the Underwriter Group for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by Lender, the Ventas Group and the Underwriter Group in connection with investigating or defending the Liabilities; provided, however, that each Borrower will be liable in any such case under clauses (B) or (C) above only to the extent that any such loss claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to Lender by or on behalf of any Borrower in connection with the preparation of the Disclosure Document or in connection with the underwriting or closing of the Loan, including, without limitation, financial statements of any Borrower, operating statements, rent rolls, appraisals, market studies, environmental site assessment reports and property condition reports with respect to the Properties. This indemnity will be in addition to any liability which any Borrower may otherwise have. (c) In connection with Exchange Act Filings, each Borrower shall (i) indemnify Lender, the Ventas Group and the Underwriter Group for Liabilities to which Lender, the Ventas Group or the Underwriter Group may become subject insofar as the Liabilities arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state in the Disclosure Document a material fact required to be stated in the Disclosure Document in order to make the statements in the Disclosure Document, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and (ii) reimburse Lender, the Ventas Group or the Underwriter Group for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by Lender, the Ventas Group or the Underwriter Group in connection with defending or investigating the Liabilities. (d) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 9.2 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 9.2, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission to so notify the indemnifying party will not relieve the indemnifying party from any liability which the 75
indemnifying party may have to any indemnified party hereunder except to the extent that failure to notify causes prejudice to the indemnifying party. In the event that any action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled, jointly with any other indemnifying party, to participate therein and, to the extent that it (or they) may elect by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. After notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party under this Section 9.2, such indemnified party shall pay for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation; provided, however, if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there are any legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assert such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party at the cost of the indemnifying party. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel unless an indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or additional to those available to another indemnified party. (e) In order to provide for just and equitable contribution in circumstances in which the indemnity agreement provided for in Section 9.2(b) or (c) is for any reason held to be unenforceable as to an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or action in respect thereof) referred to therein which would otherwise be indemnifiable under Section 9.2(b) or (c), the indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by the indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or action in respect thereof); provided, however, that no Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. In determining the amount of contribution to which the respective parties are entitled, the following factors shall be considered: (i) the applicable indemnified party's and each Borrower's relative knowledge and access to information concerning the matter with respect to which the claim was asserted; (ii) the opportunity to correct and prevent any statement or omission; and (iii) any other equitable considerations appropriate in the circumstances. Lender and each Borrower hereby agree that it would not be equitable if the amount of such contribution were determined by pro rata or per capita allocation. (f) The liabilities and obligations of both Borrowers and Lender under this Section 9.2 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the satisfaction and discharge of the Debt. 76
ARTICLE X. DEFAULTS Section 10.1. Event of Default. (a) Each of the following events shall constitute an event of default hereunder (an "Event of Default"): (i) if any portion of the Debt is not paid when due or if any Borrower fails to pay any other amount payable pursuant to this Agreement (including, without limitation, any deposits or payments to the Collateral Accounts) or any other Loan Document when due and payable in accordance with the provisions hereof or thereof, as the case may be; (ii) subject to Borrowers' right to contest Taxes and Other Charges pursuant to Section 4.1.2 and provided Borrower is complying with the terms of such Section, if any of the Taxes or Other Charges are not paid when due; (iii) if the Policies are not kept in full force and effect; (iv) if any Borrower breaches or permits or suffers a breach of Article 6 of any Mortgage; (v) if any representation or warranty made by any Borrower herein or in any other Loan Document, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other instrument, agreement or document furnished to Lender shall have been false or misleading in any material respect as of the date the representation or warranty was made; (vi) if any Borrower shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors; (vii) if a receiver, liquidator or trustee shall be appointed for any Borrower or if any Borrower shall be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or if any petition for bankruptcy, reorganization or arrangement pursuant to federal bankruptcy law, or any similar federal or state law, shall be filed by or against, consented to, or acquiesced in by, any Borrower, or if any proceeding for the dissolution or liquidation of any Borrower shall be instituted; provided, however, if such appointment, adjudication, petition or proceeding was involuntary and not consented to by any Borrower, upon the same not being discharged, stayed or dismissed within thirty (30) days; (viii) if any Borrower attempts to assign its rights under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or any interest herein or therein in contravention of the Loan Documents; (ix) if any of the assumptions contained in the Insolvency Opinion, or in any other non-consolidation opinion delivered to Lender in 77
connection with the Loan, or in any other non-consolidation delivered subsequent to the closing of the Loan, is or shall become untrue in any material respect; (x) if any Borrower breaches any representation, warranty or covenant contained in Section 3.1.24 hereof or if any Borrower is not a Single-Purpose Entity or if any provision of any organizational document of any Borrower is amended or modified in any respect without the prior written consent of Lender; (xi) if any Borrower shall continue to be in Default under any of the other terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement not specified in subsections (i) to (x) above, for ten (10) days after notice to any Borrower from Lender, in the case of any Default which can be cured by the payment of a sum of money, or for thirty (30) days after notice from Lender in the case of any other Default; provided, however, that if such non-monetary Default is susceptible of cure but cannot reasonably be cured within such 30-day period and provided further that a Borrower shall have commenced to cure such Default within such 30-day period and thereafter diligently and expeditiously proceeds to cure the same, such 30-day period shall be extended for such time as is reasonably necessary for such Borrower in the exercise of due diligence to cure such Default, such additional period not to exceed sixty (60) days; (xii) if there shall be default under any of the other Loan Documents beyond any applicable cure periods contained in such Loan Documents, whether as to any Borrower or any of the Properties, or if any other such event shall occur or condition shall exist, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate the maturity of any portion of the Debt or to permit Lender to accelerate the maturity of all or any portion of the Debt; (xiii) if any Guarantor breaches any covenant, warranty or representation contained in any Loan Document to which it is a party, including, but not limited to, the Master Guaranty and Master Guaranty Pledge which is not remedied within any grace period; or (xiv) if Borrowers shall fail to maintain an Acceptable Interest Rate Cap Agreement collaterally assigned to Lender pursuant to the Collateral Assignment of Interest Rate Cap or is in default of its obligations under any interest rate cap agreement delivered in connection with the Loan beyond any applicable notice and cure period, or if any such interest rate cap agreement shall be void or unenforceable; or (xv) if a final unappealable determination shall have been made by any applicable Governmental Authority of any Borrower's non-compliance with material Legal Requirements applicable to any Property, or of the revocation of any material license, permit or approval required for the lawful operation of any Property, or any other circumstances under which any Borrower is required by a final unappealable determination of any such Governmental Authority to cease operations of such Property as a Nursing Facility, Assisted Living Facility or Specialty Hospital, in each case as 78
described on the attached Schedule III (as such Schedule may be amended to show any change of use of any Property); (xvi) if an "Event of Default" occurs under any Operating Lease; (xvii) if there is a reduction in the number of licensed beds or a change in the type of licensed beds for any Property in violation of the requirements of this Agreement; or (xviii) if any Borrower shall fail to correct, within the time deadlines set by any Medicare, Medicaid, health, reimbursement, licensing or similar agency, any deficiency that justifies either of the following actions by such agency with respect to any Property and such agency commences either of the following actions: (1) a termination of any Medicare contract, Medicaid contract or Regulatory Permit; (2) a ban on new admissions generally or on admission of patients otherwise qualifying for Medicaid or Medicare coverage which ban is not lifted within sixty (60) days or as to which a Borrower fails to file a plan of correction within ten (10) days of such ban; (xix) if any Property is assessed material fines or penalties by any state or any Medicare, Medicaid, health, reimbursement, licensing or similar agency having jurisdiction over any Borrower or any Property; (xx) except as may be permitted pursuant to this Agreement, as to each Property, if any Borrower ceases to operate, or changes the use of, such Property as or from a Nursing Facility, Assisted Living Facility or Rehabilitation Hospital in each case as described on the attached Schedule III (as such Schedule may be amended to show any change of use of any Property) or terminates such business for any reason whatsoever (other than a temporary cessation in connection with any renovations); or (xxi) if, with respect to any Property, any Governmental Authority (a) makes a substandard quality of care determination regarding such Property which determination is not corrected in sixty (60) days (or if incapable of being cured within such sixty (60) days period, within one hundred twenty (120) days provided Borrowers are taking all appropriate actions to correct such determination); (b) makes a determination that such Property is not in substantial compliance with any applicable regulatory requirements which determination is not corrected in sixty (60) days (or if incapable of being cured within such sixty (60) days period, within one hundred twenty (120) days, provided Borrowers are taking all appropriate actions to correct such determination); (c) designates any portion of such Property or the entirety of such Property as part of a "poor performing chain"; (d) cites deficiencies at the scope or 79
severity of "G", "H" or higher with respect to such Property and for which no plan of correction is in place within ten (10) days of receipt of such deficiency statement; (e) cites deficiencies at the scope and severity of "G", "H" or higher with respect to such Property for which a plan of correction has been filed but not approved by such Governmental Authority, with such designation, determination or action continuing unremedied for a period of sixty (60) days (or if incapable of being cured within such sixty (60) days period, within one hundred twenty (120) days, provided Borrowers are taking all appropriate actions to correct such determination) (or ten (10) days for immediate jeopardy deficiencies) following any Borrower's first receipt of notice of such designation, determination or action; or (f) takes adverse regulatory action with respect to such Property, including, without limitation, the imposing of civil money penalties, with such designation, determination or action continuing unremedied for a period of sixty (60) days (or if incapable of being cured within such sixty (60) days period, within one hundred twenty (120) days, provided Borrowers are taking all appropriate actions to correct such determination) (ten (10) days for immediate jeopardy deficiencies) following any Borrower's receipt of notice of such designation, determination or action. (b) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default described in clauses (vi), (vii) or (viii) above) and at any time thereafter Lender may, in addition to any other rights or remedies available to it pursuant to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or at law or in equity, take such action, without notice or demand, that Lender deems advisable to protect and enforce its rights against any Borrower and in and to any or all of the Properties, including, without limitation, declaring the Debt to be immediately due and payable, and Lender may enforce or avail itself of any or all rights or remedies provided in the Loan Documents against any Borrower and any or all of the Properties, including, without limitation, all rights or remedies available at law or in equity; and upon any Event of Default described in clauses (vi), (vii) or (viii) above, the Debt and all other obligations of each Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents shall immediately and automatically become due and payable, without notice or demand, and each Borrower hereby expressly waives any such notice or demand, anything contained herein or in any other Loan Document to the contrary notwithstanding. Section 10.2. Remedies. (a) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, all or any one or more of the rights, powers, privileges and other remedies available to Lender against any Borrower under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents executed and delivered by, or applicable to, any Borrower or at law or in equity may be exercised by Lender at any time and from time to time, whether or not all or any of the Debt shall be declared due and payable, and whether or not Lender shall have commenced any foreclosure proceeding or other action for the enforcement of its rights and remedies under any of the Loan Documents with respect to any or all of the Properties. Any such actions taken by Lender shall be cumulative and concurrent and may be pursued independently, singly, successively, together or otherwise, at such time and in such order as Lender may determine in its sole discretion, to the fullest extent permitted by law, without impairing or otherwise affecting the other rights and remedies of Lender permitted by law, equity or contract or as set forth herein or in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if an Event of 80
Default is continuing (i) Lender is not subject to any "one action" or "election of remedies" law or rule to the face extent allowed by applicable law, and (ii) all liens and other rights, remedies or privileges provided to Lender shall remain in full force and effect until Lender has exhausted all of its remedies against the Properties and each Mortgage has been foreclosed, sold and/or otherwise realized upon in satisfaction of the Debt or the Debt has been paid in full. (b) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, Lender shall have the right from time to time to partially foreclose the Mortgages in any manner and for any amounts secured by the Mortgages then due and payable as determined by Lender in its sole discretion including, without limitation, the following circumstances: (i) in the event any Borrower defaults beyond any applicable grace period in the payment of one or more scheduled payments of principal and interest, Lender may foreclose one or more of the Mortgages to recover such delinquent payments, or (ii) in the event Lender elects to accelerate less than the entire outstanding principal balance of the Loan, Lender may foreclose one or more the Mortgages to recover so much of the principal balance of the Loan as Lender may accelerate and such other sums secured by one or more of the Mortgages as Lender may elect. Notwithstanding one or more partial foreclosures, the Properties shall remain subject to the Mortgages to secure payment of sums secured by the Mortgages and not previously recovered. (c) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, Lender shall have the right from time to time to sever the Note and the other Loan Documents into one or more separate notes, mortgages and other security documents (the "Severed Loan Documents") in such denominations as Lender shall determine in its sole discretion for purposes of evidencing and enforcing its rights and remedies provided hereunder. Each Borrower shall execute and deliver to Lender from time to time, promptly after the request of Lender, a severance agreement and such other documents as Lender shall request in order to effect the severance described in the preceding sentence, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lender. Each Borrower hereby absolutely and irrevocably appoints Lender as its true and lawful attorney, coupled with an interest, in its name and stead to make and execute all documents necessary or desirable to effect the aforesaid severance, each Borrower ratifying all that its said attorney shall do by virtue thereof; provided, however, Lender shall not make or execute any such documents under such power until three (3) days after notice has been given to any Borrower by Lender of Lender's intent to exercise its rights under such power. Except as may be required in connection with a Securitization pursuant to Section 9.1 hereof, (i) each Borrower shall not be obligated to pay any costs or expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, execution, recording or filing of the Severed Loan Documents, and (ii) the Severed Loan Documents shall not contain any representations, warranties or covenants not contained in the Loan Documents and any such representations and warranties contained in the Severed Loan Documents will be given by each Borrower only as of the Closing Date. (d) Any amounts recovered from the Properties or any other collateral for the Loan after an Event of Default may be applied by Lender toward the payment of any interest and/or principal of the Loan and/or any other amounts due under the Loan Documents in such order, priority and proportions as Lender in its sole discretion shall determine. 81
Section 10.3. Remedies Cumulative. The rights, powers and remedies of Lender under this Agreement shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any other right, power or remedy which Lender may have against any Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or existing at law or in equity or otherwise. Lender's rights, powers and remedies may be pursued singly, concurrently or otherwise, at such time and in such order as Lender may determine in Lender's sole discretion. No delay or omission to exercise any remedy, right or power accruing upon an Event of Default shall impair any such remedy, right or power or shall be construed as a waiver thereof, but any such remedy, right or power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient. A waiver of one Default or Event of Default with respect to any Borrower shall not be construed to be a waiver of any subsequent Default or Event of Default by any Borrower or to impair any remedy, right or power consequent thereon. ARTICLE XI. MISCELLANEOUS Section 11.1. Successors and Assigns. All covenants, promises and agreements in this Agreement, by or on behalf of any Borrower, shall inure to the benefit of the legal representatives, successors and assigns of Lender. Section 11.2. Lender's Discretion. Whenever pursuant to this Agreement Lender exercises any right given to it to approve or disapprove, or any arrangement or term is to be satisfactory to Lender, the decision of Lender to approve or disapprove or to decide whether arrangements or terms are satisfactory or not satisfactory shall (except as is otherwise specifically herein provided) be in the sole discretion of Lender and shall be final and conclusive. Prior to a Securitization, whenever pursuant to this Agreement the Rating Agencies are given any right to approve or disapprove, or any arrangement or term is to be satisfactory to the Rating Agencies, the decision of Lender to approve or disapprove or to decide whether arrangements or terms are satisfactory or not satisfactory, based upon Lender's determination of Rating Agency criteria, shall be substituted therefore. Section 11.3. Governing Law. (a) THIS AGREEMENT WAS NEGOTIATED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND MADE BY LENDER AND ACCEPTED BY BORROWER IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE PROCEEDS OF THE NOTE DELIVERED PURSUANT HERETO WERE DISBURSED FROM THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WHICH STATE THE PARTIES AGREE HAS A SUBSTANTIAL RELATIONSHIP TO THE PARTIES AND TO THE UNDERLYING TRANSACTION EMBODIED HEREBY, AND IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, MATTERS OF CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE, THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE (WITHOUT 82
REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT LAWS) AND ANY APPLICABLE LAW OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, EXCEPT THAT AT ALL TIMES THE PROVISIONS FOR THE CREATION, PERFECTION, AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE LIENS AND SECURITY INTERESTS CREATED PURSUANT HERETO AND PURSUANT TO THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED ACCORDING TO THE LAW OF THE STATE IN WHICH THE APPLICABLE PROPERTY IS LOCATED, IT BEING UNDERSTOOD THAT, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY THE LAW OF SUCH STATE, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND ENFORCEABILITY OF ALL LOAN DOCUMENTS AND ALL OF THE OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER OR THEREUNDER. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, BORROWER HEREBY UNCONDITIONALLY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY CLAIM TO ASSERT THAT THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION GOVERNS THIS AGREEMENT AND THE NOTE, AND THIS AGREEMENT AND THE NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW. (b) ANY LEGAL SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST LENDER OR BORROWER ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY AT LENDER'S OPTION BE INSTITUTED IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF NEW YORK, PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW AND BORROWER WAIVES ANY OBJECTIONS WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE BASED ON VENUE AND/OR FORUM NON CONVENIENS OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, AND BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY SUCH COURT IN ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING. BORROWER DOES HEREBY DESIGNATE AND APPOINT: CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 111 EIGHTH AVENUE NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10011 AS ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT TO ACCEPT AND ACKNOWLEDGE ON ITS BEHALF SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL PROCESS WHICH MAY BE SERVED IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK, AND AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SAID AGENT AT SAID ADDRESS AND WRITTEN NOTICE OF SAID SERVICE MAILED OR DELIVERED TO BORROWER IN THE MANNER PROVIDED HEREIN SHALL BE DEEMED IN EVERY RESPECT EFFECTIVE SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON BORROWER, IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. BORROWER (I) SHALL GIVE PROMPT NOTICE TO LENDER OF ANY CHANGED ADDRESS OF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT HEREUNDER, (II) MAY AT ANY TIME AND FROM TIME TO TIME DESIGNATE A SUBSTITUTE AUTHORIZED AGENT WITH AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK (WHICH SUBSTITUTE AGENT AND OFFICE SHALL BE DESIGNATED AS THE PERSON AND ADDRESS FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS), AND (III) SHALL PROMPTLY DESIGNATE SUCH A SUBSTITUTE IF ITS AUTHORIZED 83
AGENT CEASES TO HAVE AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK OR IS DISSOLVED WITHOUT LEAVING A SUCCESSOR. Section 11.4. Modification, Waiver in Writing. No modification, amendment, extension, discharge, termination or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or of any other Loan Document, nor consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in a writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance, and for the purpose, for which given. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, no notice to, or demand on any Borrower, shall entitle any Borrower to any other or future notice or demand in the same, similar or other circumstances. Section 11.5. Delay Not a Waiver. Neither any failure nor any delay on the part of Lender in insisting upon strict performance of any term, condition, covenant or agreement, or exercising any right, power, remedy or privilege hereunder, or under any other Loan Document, shall operate as or constitute a waiver thereof, nor shall a single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other future exercise, or the exercise of any other right, power, remedy or privilege. In particular, and not by way of limitation, by accepting payment after the due date of any amount payable under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, Lender shall not be deemed to have waived any right either to require prompt payment when due of all other amounts due under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or to declare a default for failure to effect prompt payment of any such other amount. Section 11.6. Notices. All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals or other communications (any of the foregoing, a "Notice") required, permitted, or desired to be given hereunder shall be in writing sent by telefax (with answer back acknowledged) or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or delivered by hand or reputable overnight courier addressed to the party to be so notified at its address hereinafter set forth, or to such other address as such party may hereafter specify in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.6. Notice to any Borrower shall be deemed notice as to all Borrowers and the Lender shall not be required to deliver any Notice to all Borrowers as long as such Notice is delivered to any one Borrower. Any Notice shall be deemed to have been received: (a) three (3) days after the date such Notice is mailed, (b) on the date of sending by telefax if sent during business hours on a Business Day (otherwise on the next Business Day), (c) on the date of delivery by hand if delivered during business hours on a Business Day (otherwise on the next Business Day), and (d) on the next Business Day if sent by an overnight commercial courier, in each case addressed to the parties as follows: 84
If to Lender: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership c/o Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attention: Chief Financial Officer Facsimile No. (502)-357-9001 with a copy to: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership c/o Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile No. (502)-357-9001 with a copy to: Dechert 4000 Bell Atlantic Tower 1717 Arch Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 Attention: David W. Forti Facsimile No. (215) 994-2222 If to a Borrower: c/o Trans Healthcare, Inc. 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103 Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 Attention: Anthony Misitano Facsimile No. (717) 730-8722 with a copy to: Latsha Davis & Yohe, P.C. 4720 Old Gettysburg Road, Suite 101 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17108 Attention: Douglas C. Yohe Facsimile No. (717) 761-2286 Section 11.7. Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury. BORROWER AND LENDER EACH HEREBY AGREE NOT TO ELECT A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY ISSUE TRIABLE OF RIGHT BY JURY, AND WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY FULLY TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SUCH RIGHT SHALL NOW OR HEREAFTER EXIST WITH REGARD TO THE LOAN DOCUMENTS, OR ANY CLAIM, COUNTERCLAIM OR OTHER ACTION ARISING IN CONNECTION THEREWITH. THIS WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IS GIVEN KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY BY BORROWER AND LENDER, AND IS INTENDED TO ENCOMPASS INDIVIDUALLY EACH INSTANCE AND EACH ISSUE AS TO WHICH THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY WOULD OTHERWISE ACCRUE. BORROWER AND LENDER ARE EACH HEREBY AUTHORIZED TO FILE A COPY OF THIS PARAGRAPH IN ANY PROCEEDING AS CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE OF THIS WAIVER. 85
Section 11.8. Headings. The Article and/or Section headings and the Table of Contents in this Agreement are included herein for convenience of reference only and are not to be construed as defining or limiting the scope or intent of the provisions hereof. Section 11.9. Severability. Wherever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement. Section 11.10. Preferences. Lender shall have the continuing and exclusive right to apply or reverse and reapply any and all payments by any Borrower to any portion of the obligations of any Borrower hereunder. To the extent any Borrower makes a payment or payments to Lender, which payment or proceeds or any part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party under any bankruptcy law, state or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then, to the extent of such payment or proceeds received, the obligations hereunder or part thereof intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continue in full force and effect, as if such payment or proceeds had not been received by Lender. Section 11.11. Waiver of Notice. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower shall not be entitled to any notices of any nature whatsoever from Lender except with respect to matters for which this Agreement or the other Loan Documents specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Lender to a Borrower and except with respect to matters for which any Borrower is not, pursuant to applicable Legal Requirements, permitted to waive the giving of notice to the full extent permitted by applicable law. Each Borrower hereby expressly waives the right to receive any notice from Lender with respect to any matter for which this Agreement or the other Loan Documents do not specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Lender to a Borrower. Section 11.12. Remedies of Borrower. In the event that a claim or adjudication is made that Lender or its agents have acted unreasonably or unreasonably delayed acting in any case where, by law or under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, Lender or such agent, as the case may be, has an obligation to act reasonably or promptly, neither Lender nor its agents shall be liable for any monetary damages, and a Borrower's sole remedy shall be limited to commencing an action seeking injunctive relief or declaratory judgment. Any action or proceeding to determine whether Lender has acted reasonably shall be determined by an action seeking declaratory 86
judgment. Any expedited procedure legally available with such a declaratory judgment action or action for injunctive relief may be utilized to the extent possible. Section 11.13. Expenses; Indemnity. (a) Each Borrower shall pay or, if any Borrower fails to pay, reimburse Lender upon receipt of notice from Lender, for all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by Lender in connection with (i) any Borrower's ongoing performance of and compliance with any Borrower's agreements and covenants contained in this Agreement, the Cooperation Agreement and the other Loan Documents on its part to be performed or complied with after the Closing Date, including, without limitation, confirming compliance with environmental and insurance requirements; (ii) Lender's ongoing performance of and compliance with all agreements and covenants contained in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents on its part to be performed or complied with after the Closing Date; (iii) the negotiation, preparation, execution, delivery and administration of any consents, amendments, waivers or other modifications to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any other documents or matters requested by any Borrower; (iv) the filing and recording fees and expenses, title insurance and reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for providing to Lender all required legal opinions, and other similar expenses incurred, in creating and perfecting the Liens in favor of Lender pursuant to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents; (v) enforcing or preserving any rights, in response to third party claims or the prosecuting or defending of any action or proceeding or other litigation, in each case against, under or affecting any Borrower, this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, the Properties, or any other security given for the Loan; (vi) the Re-sizing and (vii) enforcing any obligations of or collecting any payments due from any Borrower under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or with respect to the Properties or in connection with any refinancing or restructuring of the credit arrangements provided under this Agreement in the nature of a "work-out" or of any insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings; provided, however, that each Borrower shall not be liable for the payment of any such costs and expenses to the extent the same arise by reason of the gross negligence, illegal acts, fraud or willful misconduct of Lender. Any costs due and payable to Lender may be paid to Lender pursuant to the Cash Management Agreement. (b) Each Borrower shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Lender and its officers, directors, agents and employees (and the successors and assigns of the foregoing (the "Lender Indemnitees")) from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, claims, costs, expenses and disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for Lender Indemnitees in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding commenced or threatened, whether or not Lender Indemnitees shall be designated a party thereto), that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against Lender Indemnitees in any manner relating to or arising out of (i) any breach by any Borrower of its obligations under, or any material misrepresentation by any Borrower contained in, this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or (ii) the use or intended use of the proceeds of the Loan (collectively, the "Indemnified Liabilities"); provided, however, that each Borrower shall not have any obligation to Lender Indemnitees hereunder to the extent that such Indemnified Liabilities arise from the gross negligence, illegal acts, fraud or willful misconduct of Lender Indemnitees. To the extent that the undertaking to indemnify, defend and hold harmless set forth in the preceding sentence 87
may be unenforceable because it violates any law or public policy, Borrowers shall pay the maximum portion that it is permitted to pay and satisfy under applicable law to the payment and satisfaction of all Indemnified Liabilities incurred by Lender Indemnitees. Section 11.14. Schedules Incorporated. The Schedules annexed hereto are hereby incorporated herein as a part of this Agreement with the same effect as if set forth in the body hereof. Section 11.15. Offsets, Counterclaims and Defenses. Any assignee of Lender's interest in and to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall take the same free and clear of all offsets, counterclaims or defenses which are unrelated to such documents which any Borrower may otherwise have against any assignor of such documents, and no such unrelated counterclaim or defense shall be interposed or asserted by any Borrower in any action or proceeding brought by any such assignee upon such documents and any such right to interpose or assert any such unrelated offset, counterclaim or defense in any such action or proceeding is hereby expressly waived by each Borrower. Section 11.16. No Joint Venture or Partnership; No Third Party Beneficiaries. (a) Each Borrower and Lender intend that the relationships created hereunder and under the other Loan Documents be solely that of borrower and lender. Nothing herein or therein is intended to create a joint venture, partnership, tenancy-in-common, or joint tenancy relationship between any Borrower and Lender nor to grant Lender any interest in the Properties other than that of mortgagee, beneficiary or lender. (b) This Agreement and the other Loan Documents are solely for the benefit of Lender and nothing contained in this Agreement or the other Loan Documents shall be deemed to confer upon anyone other than Lender any right to insist upon or to enforce the performance or observance of any of the obligations contained herein or therein. All conditions to the obligations of Lender to make the Loan hereunder are imposed solely and exclusively for the benefit of Lender and no other Person shall have standing to require satisfaction of such conditions in accordance with their terms or be entitled to assume that Lender will refuse to make the Loan in the absence of strict compliance with any or all thereof and no other Person shall under any circumstances be deemed to be a beneficiary of such conditions, any or all of which may be freely waived in whole or in part by Lender if, in Lender's sole discretion, Lender deems it advisable or desirable to do so. Section 11.17. Publicity. All news releases, publicity or advertising by any Borrower or its Affiliates through any media intended to reach the general public which refers to the Loan Documents or the financing evidenced by the Loan Documents, to Lender or any of its Affiliates shall be subject to the prior approval of Lender. 88
Section 11.18. Waiver of Marshalling of Assets. To the fullest extent permitted by law, each Borrower, for itself and its successors and assigns, waives all rights to a marshalling of the assets of any Borrower, any Borrower's partners and others with interests in any Borrower, and of the Properties, and shall not assert any right under any laws pertaining to the marshalling of assets, the sale in inverse order of alienation, homestead exemption, the administration of estates of decedents, or any other matters whatsoever to defeat, reduce or affect the right of Lender under the Loan Documents to a sale of the Properties for the collection of the Debt without any prior or different resort for collection or of the right of Lender to the payment of the Debt out of the net proceeds of the Properties in preference to every other claimant whatsoever. Section 11.19. Waiver of Offsets/Defenses/Counterclaims. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower hereby waives the right to assert a counterclaim, other than a mandatory or compulsory counterclaim, in any action or proceeding brought against it by Lender or its agents or otherwise to offset any obligations to make the payments required by the Loan Documents. No failure by Lender to perform any of its obligations hereunder shall be a valid defense to, or result in any offset against, any payments which any Borrower is obligated to make under any of the Loan Documents. Section 11.20. Conflict; Construction of Documents; Reliance. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and any of the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Agreement shall control. The parties hereto acknowledge that they were represented by competent counsel in connection with the negotiation, drafting and execution of the Loan Documents and that such Loan Documents shall not be subject to the principle of construing their meaning against the party which drafted same. Each Borrower acknowledges that, with respect to the Loan, each Borrower shall rely solely on its own judgment and advisors in entering into the Loan without relying in any manner on any statements, representations or recommendations of Lender or any parent, subsidiary or Affiliate of Lender. Lender shall not be subject to any limitation whatsoever in the exercise of any rights or remedies available to it under any of the Loan Documents or any other agreements or instruments which govern the Loan by virtue of the ownership by it or any parent, subsidiary or Affiliate of Lender of any equity interest any of them may acquire in any Borrower, and each Borrower hereby irrevocably waives the right to raise any defense or take any action on the basis of the foregoing with respect to Lender's exercise of any such rights or remedies. Each Borrower acknowledges that Lender engages in the business of real estate financings and other real estate transactions and investments which may be viewed as adverse to or competitive with the business of any Borrower or its Affiliates. Section 11.21. Brokers and Financial Advisors. Each Borrower hereby represents that it has dealt with no financial advisors, brokers, underwriters, placement agents, agents or finders in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Each Borrower shall indemnify, defend and hold Lender Indemnitees harmless from and against any and all claims, liabilities, costs and expenses of any 89
kind (including attorneys' fees and expenses) in any way relating to or arising from a claim by any Person that such Person acted on behalf of any Borrower or Lender Indemnitees in connection with the transactions contemplated herein. The provisions of this Section 11.21 shall survive the expiration and termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Debt. Section 11.22. Exculpation. Subject to the qualifications below, Lender shall not enforce the liability and obligation of any Borrower to perform and observe the obligations contained in the Note, this Agreement, the Mortgages or the other Loan Documents by any action or proceeding wherein a money judgment shall be sought against any Borrower, except that Lender may bring a foreclosure action, an action for specific performance or any other appropriate action or proceeding to enable Lender to enforce and realize upon its interest under the Note, this Agreement, the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents, or in the Properties, the Rents, or any other collateral given to Lender pursuant to the Loan Documents; provided, however, that, except as specifically provided herein, any judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be enforceable against Borrowers only to the extent of Borrowers' interest in the Properties, in the Rents and in any other collateral given to Lender, and Lender, by accepting the Note, this Agreement, the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents, shall not sue for, seek or demand any deficiency judgment against any Borrower in any such action or proceeding under or by reason of or under or in connection with the Note, this Agreement, the Mortgages or the other Loan Documents. The provisions of this Section shall not, however, (a) constitute a waiver, release or impairment of any obligation evidenced or secured by any of the Loan Documents; (b) impair the right of Lender to name any Borrower as a party defendant in any action or suit for foreclosure and sale under any of the Mortgages; (c) affect the validity or enforceability of any guaranty made in connection with the Loan, the Mezzanine Loan, the Sale/Leaseback Transaction or any of the rights and remedies of Lender thereunder; (d) impair the right of Lender to obtain the appointment of a receiver; (e) impair the enforcement of any of the Assignments of Leases; (f) constitute a prohibition against Lender to seek a deficiency judgment against any Borrower in order to fully realize the security granted by each of the Mortgages or to commence any other appropriate action or proceeding in order for Lender to exercise its remedies against all of the Properties; or (g) constitute a waiver of the right of Lender to enforce the liability and obligation of any Borrower, by money judgment or otherwise, to the extent of any loss, damage, cost, expense, liability, claim or other obligation incurred by Lender (including attorneys' fees and costs reasonably incurred) arising out of or in connection with the following: (i) fraud or intentional misrepresentation by any Borrower or any guarantor in connection with the Loan; (ii) the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any Borrower; (iii) the breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or indemnification provision in the Environmental Indemnity concerning environmental laws, hazardous substances and asbestos and any indemnification of Lender with respect thereto contained in the Environmental Indemnity; 90
(iv) the removal or disposal of any portion of the Properties after an Event of Default; (v) the misapplication or conversion by any Borrower of (A) any insurance proceeds paid by reason of any loss, damage or destruction to the Properties, (B) any Awards or other amounts received in connection with the Condemnation of all or a portion of the Properties, or (C) any Rents following an Event of Default; (vi) failure to pay charges for labor or materials or other charges that can create Liens on any portion of the Properties; (vii) any security deposits, advance deposits or any other deposits collected with respect to the Properties which are not delivered to Lender upon a foreclosure of the Properties or action in lieu thereof, except to the extent any such security deposits were applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of any of the Leases prior to the occurrence of the Event of Default that gave rise to such foreclosure or action in lieu thereof; (viii) each Borrower's indemnification of Lender set forth in Section 9.2 hereof; and (ix) the failure to deposit all Rents into the Cash Management Account in accordance with the provisions hereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Note or any of the Loan Documents, (A) Lender shall not be deemed to have waived any right which Lender may have under Section 506(a), 506(b), 1111(b) or any other provisions of the Bankruptcy Code to file a claim for the full amount of the Debt or to require that all collateral shall continue to secure all of the Debt owing to Lender in accordance with the Loan Documents, and (B) the Debt shall be fully recourse to each Borrower (1) prior to a Securitization and (2) in the event that: (i) any Borrower fails to permit on-site inspections of the Properties, fails to provide financial information, fails to maintain its status as a Single-Purpose Entity or fails to appoint a new property manager upon the request of Lender after an Event of Default or other event that would give rise to the right of Lender to request any Borrower to appoint a new property manager, each as required by, and in accordance with the terms and provisions of, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents; (iii) any Borrower fails to obtain Lender's prior consent to any subordinate financing, mezzanine financing or other voluntary Lien encumbering the Properties; (iv) any Borrower fails to obtain Lender's prior consent to any Transfer to the extent such consent is required herein or in the Mortgages; (v) any Borrower files a voluntary petition under the Bankruptcy Code or any other Federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency law; (vi) an Affiliate, officer, director, or representative which controls, directly or indirectly, any Borrower files, or joins in the filing of, an involuntary petition against any Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code or any other 91
Federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency law, or solicits or causes to be solicited petitioning creditors for any involuntary petition against any Borrower from any Person; (vii) any Borrower files an answer consenting to or otherwise acquiescing in or joining in any involuntary petition filed against it, by any other Person under the Bankruptcy Code or any other Federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency law, or solicits or causes to be solicited petitioning creditors for any involuntary petition from any Person; (viii) any Affiliate, officer, director, or representative which controls any Borrower consents to or acquiesces in or joins in an application for the appointment of a custodian, receiver, trustee, or examiner for any Borrower or any portion of the Properties; or (ix) any Borrower makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or admits, in writing or in any legal proceeding, its insolvency or inability to pay its debts as they become due. Section 11.23. Prior Agreements. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents contain the entire agreement of the parties hereto and thereto in respect of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, and all prior agreements among or between such parties, whether oral or written, including, without limitation, the loan commitment dated October 2, 2002, and all attachments thereto including, but not limited to, the term sheet between Borrowers and Lender, are superseded by the terms of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Section 11.24. Servicer. At the option of Lender, the Loan may be serviced by a servicer including, but not limited to any sub-servicers or master servicer (the "Servicer") selected by Lender and Lender may delegate all or any portion of its responsibilities under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to the Servicer pursuant to a servicing agreement (the "Servicing Agreement") between Lender and Servicer. Borrowers shall be responsible for any reasonable set-up fees or any other initial costs relating to or arising under the Servicing Agreement; provided, however, that Borrowers shall not be responsible for payment of the monthly servicing fee due to the Servicer under the Servicing Agreement. Section 11.25. Duplicate Originals; Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of duplicate originals and each such duplicate original shall be deemed to be an original. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which counterparts shall be deemed an original instrument and all of which together shall constitute a single Agreement. The failure of any party hereto to execute this Agreement, or any counterpart hereof, shall not relieve the other signatories from their obligations hereunder. Section 11.26. Cross Collateralization. Without limitation to any other right or remedy provided to Lender in this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that to the full extent permitted under applicable law, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (i) Lender shall have the right to pursue all of its rights and remedies in one proceeding, or separately and independently in separate proceedings which it, as Lender, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine from time to time, (ii) Lender is not required to either marshall assets, sell any of the collateral for the Loan in any inverse order of alienation, or be subjected to any "one action" or "election of remedies" law or rule, (iii) the exercise by Lender of any remedies against any of the collateral for the Loan will not impede Lender from subsequently or 92
simultaneously exercising remedies against other collateral for the Loan, (iv) all Liens and other rights, remedies and privileges provided to Lender in this Agreement and in the other Loan Documents or otherwise shall remain in full force and effect until Lender has exhausted all of its remedies against the collateral for the Loan and all of the collateral for the Loan has been foreclosed, sold and/or otherwise realized upon and (v) all of the Properties shall be security for the performance of all of each Borrower's obligations hereunder. Section 11.27. Joint and Several Liability. If more than one Person has executed this Agreement as "Borrower," the representations, covenants, warranties and obligations of all such Persons hereunder shall be joint and several. [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE] 93
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Loan Agreement to be duly executed by their duly authorized representatives, all as of the day and year first above written. LENDER: VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership By: Ventas, Inc. a Delaware corporation, its sole general partner By: /s/ T. RICHARD RINEY ----------------------------------------------- Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President/General Counsel [Signatures continue on following page]
BORROWER: THI OF OHIO REAL ESTATE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT COLUMBUS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT VALLEY VIEW, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT NORTHWESTERN, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT OAK GROVE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President
THI OF OHIO AT PARADISE OAKS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT SOMERSET, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT WILLARD, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT HILLCREST, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT MAPLE VIEW, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President
THI OF OHIO AT WINTERSONG VILLAGE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT WOODLAND, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT GREENBRIAR SOUTH, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT GOLDEN YEARS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER -------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND REAL ESTATE HOLDING CO., LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL -------------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President
THI OF MARYLAND AT BEL PRE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL -------------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT LIBERTY HEIGHTS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL -------------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT MARLEY NECK, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL -------------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT NORTHWEST, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL -------------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President

Exhibit 10.2.2 PROMISSORY NOTE $55,000,000 New York, New York November 1, 2002 FOR VALUE RECEIVED THOSE ENTITIES LISTED ON SCHEDULE I attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company and each having its principal place of business at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 (each, a "Borrower" and collectively, the "Borrowers"), hereby jointly and severally promise to pay to the order of VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207 (together with any subsequent holder of this Note, and their respective successors and assigns, "Lender"), or at such other place as the holder hereof may from time to time designate in writing, the maximum principal sum of FIFTY FIVE MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($55,000,000), or so much thereof as is advanced, in lawful money of the United States of America, with interest thereon to be computed from the date of this Note at the Interest Rate, and to be paid in accordance with the terms of this Note and that certain Loan Agreement dated the date hereof between the Borrowers and Lender (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Loan Agreement"). All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement. ARTICLE 1 - PAYMENT TERMS Each Borrower agrees to pay the principal sum of this Note and interest on the unpaid principal sum of this Note from time to time outstanding at the rates and at the times specified in Article II of the Loan Agreement and the outstanding balance of the principal sum of this Note and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon shall be due and payable on the Maturity Date. ARTICLE 2 - DEFAULT AND ACCELERATION The Debt shall without notice become immediately due and payable at the option of Lender if any payment required under this Note is not paid on or prior to the date when due or if not paid on the Maturity Date or on the happening of any other Event of Default. ARTICLE 3 - LOAN DOCUMENTS This Note is secured by the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents. All of the terms, covenants and conditions contained in the Loan Agreement, the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents are hereby made part of this Note to the same extent and with the same force as if they were fully set forth herein. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this Note and the Loan Agreement, the terms and provisions of the Loan Agreement shall govern.
ARTICLE 4 - SAVINGS CLAUSE Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, (a) all agreements and communications between any Borrower and Lender are hereby and shall automatically be limited so that, after taking into account all amounts deemed interest, the interest contracted for, charged or received by Lender shall never exceed the maximum lawful rate or amount, (b) in calculating whether any interest exceeds the lawful maximum, all such interest shall be amortized, prorated, allocated and spread over the full amount and term of all principal indebtedness of the Borrowers to Lender, and (c) if through any contingency or event, Lender receives or is deemed to receive interest in excess of the lawful maximum, any such excess shall be deemed to have been applied toward payment of the principal of any and all then outstanding indebtedness of the Borrowers to Lender, or if there is no such indebtedness, shall immediately be returned to the Borrowers. ARTICLE 5 - NO ORAL CHANGE No modification, amendment, extension, discharge, termination or waiver of any provision of this Note, nor consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in a writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance, and for the purpose, for which given. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, no notice to, or demand on any Borrower shall entitle such Borrower to any other or future notice of demand in the same, similar or other circumstances. ARTICLE 6 - WAIVERS Each Borrower and all others who may become liable for the payment of all or any part of the Debt do hereby severally waive presentment and demand for payment, notice of dishonor, notice of intention to accelerate, notice of acceleration, protest and notice of protest and non-payment and all other notices of any kind. No release of any security for the Debt or extension of time for payment of this Note or any installment hereof, and no alteration, amendment or waiver of any provision of this Note, the Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents made by agreement between Lender or any other Person shall release, modify, amend, waive, extend, change, discharge, terminate or affect the liability of any Borrower or any other Person who may become liable for the payment of all or any part of the Debt under this Note, the Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents. No notice to or demand on any Borrower shall be deemed to be a waiver of the obligation of such Borrower or of the right of Lender to take further action without further notice or demand as provided for in this Note, the Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents. If any Borrower is a partnership or limited liability company, the agreements herein contained shall remain in force and be applicable, notwithstanding any changes in the individuals comprising the partnership or limited liability company, and the term "Borrower," as used herein, shall include any alternate or successor partnership or limited liability company, but any predecessor partnership or limited liability company and their partners or members shall not thereby be released from any liability. If any Borrower is a corporation, the agreements contained herein shall remain in full force and be applicable notwithstanding any changes in the shareholders comprising, or the officers and directors relating to, the corporation, and the term "Borrower," as used herein, shall include any alternative or successor corporation, but any predecessor corporation shall not be relieved of -2-
liability hereunder. Nothing in the foregoing sentence shall be construed as a consent to, or a waiver of, any prohibition or restriction on transfers of interests in such partnership, limited liability company or corporation, which may be set forth in the Loan Agreement, the Mortgages or any other Loan Document. ARTICLE 7 - TRANSFER Upon the transfer of this Note in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement, each Borrower hereby waiving notice of any such transfer, Lender may deliver all the collateral mortgaged, granted, pledged or assigned pursuant to the Loan Documents, or any part thereof, to the transferee who shall thereupon become vested with all the rights herein or under applicable law given to Lender with respect thereto, and Lender shall thereafter forever be relieved and fully discharged from any liability or responsibility in the matter; but Lender shall retain all rights hereby given to it with respect to any liabilities and the collateral not so transferred. ARTICLE 8 - EXCULPATION The provisions of Section 11.22 of the Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference into this Note to the same extent and with the same force as if fully set forth herein. ARTICLE 9 - GOVERNING LAW (A) THIS NOTE WAS NEGOTIATED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND MADE BY EACH BORROWER AND ACCEPTED BY LENDER IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE PROCEEDS OF THIS NOTE WERE DISBURSED FROM THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WHICH STATE THE PARTIES AGREE HAS A SUBSTANTIAL RELATIONSHIP TO THE PARTIES AND TO THE UNDERLYING TRANSACTION EMBODIED HEREBY, AND IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, MATTERS OF CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE, THIS NOTE AND THE OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE (WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT LAWS) AND ANY APPLICABLE LAW OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH BORROWER HEREBY UNCONDITIONALLY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY CLAIM TO ASSERT THAT THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION GOVERNS THIS NOTE AND THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW. (B) ANY LEGAL SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST LENDER OR ANY BORROWER ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS NOTE MAY AT LENDER'S OPTION BE INSTITUTED IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF NEW YORK, PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1402 -3-
OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW, AND EACH BORROWER WAIVES ANY OBJECTIONS WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE BASED ON VENUE AND/OR FORUM NON CONVENIENCE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, AND EACH BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY SUCH COURT IN ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING. EACH BORROWER DOES HEREBY DESIGNATE AND APPOINT: CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 111 EIGHTH AVENUE NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10011 AS ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT TO ACCEPT AND ACKNOWLEDGE ON ITS BEHALF SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL PROCESS WHICH MAY BE SERVED IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK, AND AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SAID AGENT AT SAID ADDRESS AND WRITTEN NOTICE OF SAID SERVICE MAILED OR DELIVERED TO BORROWER IN THE MANNER PROVIDED HEREIN SHALL BE DEEMED IN EVERY RESPECT EFFECTIVE SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON BORROWER IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH BORROWER (I) SHALL GIVE PROMPT NOTICE TO LENDER OF ANY CHANGE IN ADDRESS OF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT HEREUNDER, (II) MAY AT ANY TIME AND FROM TIME TO TIME DESIGNATE A SUBSTITUTE AUTHORIZED AGENT WITH AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK (WHICH SUBSTITUTE AGENT AND OFFICE SHALL BE DESIGNATED AS THE PERSON AND ADDRESS FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS), AND (III) SHALL PROMPTLY DESIGNATE SUCH A SUBSTITUTE IF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT CEASES TO HAVE AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK OR IS DISSOLVED WITHOUT LEAVING A SUCCESSOR. ARTICLE 10 - NOTICES All notices or other written communications hereunder shall be delivered in accordance with Section 11.6 of the Loan Agreement. [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE] -4-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Borrower has duly executed this Note as of the day and year first above written. BORROWER: THI OF OHIO REAL ESTATE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT COLUMBUS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT VALLEY VIEW, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT NORTHWESTERN, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT OAK GROVE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President
THI OF OHIO AT PARADISE OAKS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT SOMERSET, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT WILLARD, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT HILLCREST, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT MAPLE VIEW, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President
THI OF OHIO AT WINTERSONG VILLAGE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT WOODLAND, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT GREENBRIAR SOUTH, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT GOLDEN YEARS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------------ Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND REAL ESTATE HOLDING CO., LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------------ Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President
THI OF MARYLAND AT BEL PRE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------------ Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT LIBERTY HEIGHTS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------------ Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT MARLEY NECK, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------------ Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT NORTHWEST, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------------ Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President
SCHEDULE I (BORROWERS) 1. THI of Ohio Real Estate Holding Company, LLC 2. THI of Ohio at Columbus, LLC 3. THI of Ohio at Valley View, LLC 4. THI of Ohio at Northwestern, LLC 5. THI of Ohio at Oak Grove, LLC 6. THI of Ohio at Paradise Oaks, LLC 7. THI of Ohio at Somerset, LLC 8. THI of Ohio at Willard, LLC 9. THI of Ohio at Hillcrest, LLC 10. THI of Ohio at Maple View, LLC 11. THI of Ohio at Wintersong Village, LLC 12. THI of Ohio at Woodland, LLC 13. THI of Ohio at Greenbriar South, LLC 14. THI of Ohio at Golden Years, LLC 15. THI of Maryland Real Estate Holding Co., LLC 16. THI of Maryland at Bel Pre, LLC 17. THI of Maryland at Liberty Heights, LLC 18. THI of Maryland at Marley Neck, LLC 19. THI of Maryland at Northwest, LLC

EXHIBIT 10.2.3 GUARANTY OF RECOURSE OBLIGATIONS THIS GUARANTY (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Guaranty") is executed as of November 1, 2002 by THOSE ENTITIES LISTED ON SCHEDULE II attached hereto (each, a "Guarantor" and collectively the, "Guarantors"), for the benefit of VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (together with its successors and assigns, "Lender"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Promissory Note, dated of even date herewith, executed by the entities listed on Schedule I attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company (each, a "Borrower" and collectively, the "Borrowers") and payable to the order of Lender in the maximum principal amount of Fifty Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($55,000,000) (together with all renewals, modifications, increases and extensions thereof, the "Note"), the Borrowers have become indebted, and may from time to time be further indebted, to Lender with respect to a loan (the "Loan") which is made pursuant to that certain Loan Agreement, dated of even date herewith, between the Borrowers and Lender (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Loan Agreement"); WHEREAS, Lender is not willing to make the Loan, or otherwise extend credit, to the Borrowers unless each Guarantor unconditionally guarantees payment and performance to Lender of the Guaranteed Obligations (as herein defined); and WHEREAS, the Guarantors are the owners of a direct or indirect interest in the Borrowers, and will directly benefit from Lender's making the Loan to the Borrowers. NOW, THEREFORE, as an inducement to Lender to make the Loan to the Borrowers and to extend such additional credit as Lender may from time to time agree to extend under the Loan Documents, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties do hereby agree as follows: ARTICLE I - NATURE AND SCOPE OF GUARANTY Section 1.1 Guaranty of Obligations. Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to Lender and its successors and assigns the payment and performance of the Guaranteed Obligations as and when the same shall be due and payable, whether by lapse of time, by acceleration of maturity or otherwise. Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally covenants and agrees that it is liable for the Guaranteed Obligations as a primary obligor. Section 1.2 Definition of Guaranteed Obligations. As used herein, the term "Guaranteed Obligations" means the obligations or liabilities of any Borrower to Lender for
any loss, damage, cost, expense, liability, claim or other obligation incurred by Lender (including attorneys' fees and costs reasonably incurred) arising out of or in connection with the following: (a) fraud or intentional misrepresentation by any Borrower or any Guarantor in connection with the Loan; (b) the gross negligence or willful misconduct by any Borrower; (c) the breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or indemnification provision in the Environmental Indemnity concerning environmental laws, hazardous substances and asbestos and any indemnification of Lender with respect thereto contained in the Environmental Indemnity; (d) the removal or disposal of any portion of the Properties after an Event of Default; (e) the misapplication or conversion by any Borrower of (i) any insurance proceeds paid by reason of any loss, damage or destruction to the Properties, (ii) any Awards or other amounts received in connection with the Condemnation of all or a portion of the Properties or (iii) any Rents; (f) failure to pay charges for labor or materials or other charges that can create Liens on any portion of the Properties; (g) any security deposits, advance deposits or other deposits collected with respect to the Properties which are not delivered to Lender upon a foreclosure of the Properties or action in lieu thereof, except to the extent any such security deposits were applied in accordance with the terms and conditions of any of the Leases prior to the occurrence of the Event of Default that gave rise to such foreclosure or action in lieu thereof; (h) the breach by any Borrower of its indemnification obligations set forth in Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement; and (i) the failure to deposit all Rents into the Cash Management Account as required by the Loan Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any of the Loan Documents, (i) Lender shall not be deemed to have waived any right which Lender may have under Section 506(a), 506(b), 1111(b) or any other provisions of the Bankruptcy Code to file a claim for the full amount of the Debt or to require that all collateral shall continue to secure all of the Debt owing to Lender in accordance with the Loan Documents and (ii) each Guarantor shall be liable for the full amount of the Debt (1) prior to a Securitization and (2) in the event that: (A) any Borrower fails to permit on-site inspections of any Property, fails to provide financial information, fails to maintain its status as a Single-Purpose Entity or fails to appoint a new property manager or new Operator upon the request of Lender after an Event of Default or other event that would give rise to the right of Lender to request such Borrower to appoint a new property manager or new Operator, each as required by, and in accordance with the terms and -2-
provisions of, the Loan Documents; (B) any Borrower fails to obtain Lender's prior written consent to any subordinate financing, mezzanine financing or other voluntary lien encumbering any Property; (C) any Borrower fails to obtain Lender's prior written consent to any Transfer to the extent such consent is required in the Loan Agreement or any Mortgage; (D) any Borrower files a voluntary petition under the Bankruptcy Code or any other Federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency law; (E) any Affiliate, officer, director, or representative which controls, directly or indirectly, any Borrower files, or joins in the filing of, an involuntary petition against such Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code or any other Federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency law, or solicits or causes to be solicited petitioning creditors for any involuntary petition against such Borrower from any Person; (F) any Borrower files an answer consenting to or otherwise acquiescing in or joining in any involuntary petition filed against it, by any other Person under the Bankruptcy Code or any other Federal or state bankruptcy or insolvency law, or solicits or causes to be solicited petitioning creditors for any involuntary petition from any Person; (G) any Affiliate, officer, director, or representative which controls any Borrower consents to or acquiesces in or joins in an application for the appointment of a custodian, receiver, trustee, or examiner for such Borrower or any portion of the Properties; or (H) any Borrower makes an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or admits, in writing or in any legal proceeding, its insolvency or inability to pay its debts as they become due. Section 1.3 Nature of Guaranty. This Guaranty is an irrevocable, absolute, continuing guaranty of payment and performance and not a guaranty of collection. This Guaranty may not be revoked by any Guarantor and shall continue to be effective with respect to any Guaranteed Obligations arising or created after any attempted revocation by any Guarantor and after (if a Guarantor is a natural person) such Guarantor's death (in which event this Guaranty shall be binding upon such Guarantor's estate and such Guarantor's legal representatives and heirs). The fact that at any time or from time to time the Guaranteed Obligations may be increased or reduced shall not release or discharge the obligation of any Guarantor to Lender with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations. This Guaranty may be enforced by Lender and any subsequent holder of the Note and shall not be discharged by the assignment or negotiation of all or part of the Note. Section 1.4 Guaranteed Obligations Not Reduced by Offset. The Guaranteed Obligations and the liabilities and obligations of each Guarantor to Lender hereunder shall not be reduced, discharged or released because or by reason of any existing or future offset, claim or defense of any Borrower or any other party against Lender or against payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, whether such offset, claim or defense arises in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations (or the transactions creating the Guaranteed Obligations) or otherwise. Section 1.5 Payment by Guarantor. If all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations shall not be punctually paid when due, whether at demand, maturity, acceleration or otherwise, each Guarantor shall, immediately upon demand by Lender and without presentment, protest, notice of protest, notice of non-payment, notice of intention to accelerate the maturity, notice of acceleration of the maturity or any other notice whatsoever, pay in lawful money of the United States of America, the amount due on the Guaranteed Obligations to Lender at Lender's address as set forth herein. Such demand(s) may be made at any time coincident with or after the time for payment of all or part of the Guaranteed Obligations and may be made from time to time -3-
with respect to the same or different items of Guaranteed Obligations. Such demand shall be deemed made, given and received in accordance with the notice provisions hereof. Section 1.6 No Duty to Pursue Others. It shall not be necessary for Lender (and each Guarantor hereby waives any rights which it may have to require Lender), in order to enforce the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder, first to (i) institute suit or exhaust its remedies against any Borrower or others liable on the Loan or the Guaranteed Obligations or any other person, (ii) enforce Lender's rights against any collateral which shall ever have been given to secure the Loan, (iii) enforce Lender's rights against any other guarantors of the Guaranteed Obligations, (iv) join any Borrower or any others liable on the Guaranteed Obligations in any action seeking to enforce this Guaranty, (v) exhaust any remedies available to Lender against any collateral which shall ever have been given to secure the Loan, or (vi) resort to any other means of obtaining payment of the Guaranteed Obligations. Lender shall not be required to mitigate damages or take any other action to reduce, collect or enforce the Guaranteed Obligations. Section 1.7 Waivers. Each Guarantor agrees to the provisions of the Loan Documents and hereby waives notice of (i) any loans or advances made by Lender to any Borrower, (ii) acceptance of this Guaranty, (iii) any amendment, modification, replacement or extension of the Note, the Mortgages, the Loan Agreement or of any other Loan Documents, (iv) the execution and delivery by any Borrower and Lender of any other loan or credit agreement or of any Borrower's execution and delivery of any promissory notes or other documents arising under the Loan Documents or in connection with any of the Properties, (v) the occurrence of any breach by any Borrower or an Event of Default, (vi) Lender's transfer or disposition of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any part thereof, (vii) sale or foreclosure (or posting or advertising for sale or foreclosure) of any collateral for the Guaranteed Obligations, (viii) protest, proof of non-payment or default by any Borrower, or (ix) any other action at any time taken or omitted by Lender and, generally, all demands and notices of every kind in connection with this Guaranty, the Loan Documents, any documents or agreements evidencing, securing or relating to any of the Guaranteed Obligations and the obligations hereby guaranteed. Section 1.8 Payment of Expenses. In the event that any Guarantor should breach or fail to timely perform any provisions of this Guaranty, each Guarantor shall, immediately upon demand by Lender, pay Lender all costs and expenses (including court costs and attorneys' fees) incurred by Lender in the enforcement hereof or the preservation of Lender's rights hereunder. The covenant contained in this Section shall survive the payment and performance of the Guaranteed Obligations. Section 1.9 Effect of Bankruptcy. In the event that pursuant to any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization, receivership or other debtor relief law or any judgment, order or decision thereunder, Lender must rescind or restore any payment or any part thereof received by Lender in satisfaction of the Guaranteed Obligations, as set forth herein, any prior release or discharge from the terms of this Guaranty given to any Guarantor by Lender shall be without effect and this Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect. It is the intention of each Borrower and each Guarantor that each Guarantor's obligations hereunder shall not be discharged except by performance of such obligations and then only to the extent of such performance. -4-
Section 1.10 Waiver of Subrogation, Reimbursement and Contribution. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Guaranty, unless and until the indefeasible payment and satisfaction in full of all of the Guaranteed Obligations, each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives, releases and abrogates any and all rights it may now or hereafter have under any agreement, at law or in equity (including, without limitation, any law subrogating such Guarantor to the rights of Lender), to assert any claim against or seek contribution, indemnification or any other form of reimbursement from any Borrower or any other party liable for payment of any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations for any payment made by such Guarantor under or in connection with this Guaranty or otherwise. Section 1.11 Borrower. The term "Borrower" as used herein shall include any new or successor corporation, association, partnership (general or limited), limited liability company joint venture, trust or other individual or organization formed as a result of any merger, reorganization, sale, transfer, devise, gift or bequest of any Borrower or any interest in any Borrower. ARTICLE II - EVENTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES NOT REDUCING OR DISCHARGING GUARANTOR'S OBLIGATIONS Section 2.1 Events and Circumstances Not Reducing or Discharging Guarantor's Obligations. Each Guarantor hereby consents and agrees to each of the following and agrees that its obligations under this Guaranty shall not be released, diminished, impaired, reduced or adversely affected by any of the following and waives any common law, equitable, statutory or other rights (including without limitation rights to notice) which it might otherwise have as a result of or in connection with any of the following: (a) Modifications. Any renewal, extension, increase, modification, alteration or rearrangement of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, the Note, the Mortgages, the Loan Agreement, the other Loan Documents or any other document, instrument, contract or understanding between any Borrower and Lender or any other parties pertaining to the Guaranteed Obligations or any failure of Lender to notify any Guarantor of any such action. (b) Adjustment. Any adjustment, indulgence, forbearance or compromise that might be granted or given by Lender to any Borrower or any Guarantor. (c) Condition of Borrower or Guarantor. The insolvency, bankruptcy, arrangement, adjustment, composition, liquidation, disability, dissolution or lack of power of any Borrower, any Guarantor or any other party at any time liable for the payment of all or part of the Guaranteed Obligations; or any dissolution of any Borrower or any Guarantor or any sale, lease or transfer of any or all of the assets of any Borrower or any Guarantor or any changes in the shareholders, partners or members of any Borrower or any Guarantor; or any reorganization of any Borrower or any Guarantor. (d) Invalidity of Guaranteed Obligations. The invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations or any document or agreement executed in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations for any reason -5-
whatsoever, including without limitation the fact that (i) the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof exceeds the amount permitted by law, (ii) the act of creating the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof is ultra vires, (iii) the officers or representatives executing the Note, the Mortgages, the Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents or otherwise creating the Guaranteed Obligations acted in excess of their authority, (iv) the Guaranteed Obligations violate applicable usury laws, (v) any Borrower has valid defenses, claims or offsets (whether at law, in equity or by agreement) which render the Guaranteed Obligations wholly or partially uncollectible from such Borrower, (vi) the creation, performance or repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations (or the execution, delivery and performance of any document or instrument representing part of the Guaranteed Obligations or executed in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations or given to secure the repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations) is illegal, uncollectible or unenforceable, or (vii) the Note, the Mortgages, the Loan Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents have been forged or otherwise are irregular or not genuine or authentic, it being agreed that each Guarantor shall remain liable hereon regardless of whether any Borrower or any other person be found not liable on the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof for any reason. (e) Release of Obligors. Any full or partial release of the liability of any Borrower on the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, or of any co-guarantors, or any other Person now or hereafter liable, whether directly or indirectly, jointly, severally, or jointly and severally, to pay, perform, guarantee or assure the payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any part thereof, it being recognized, acknowledged and agreed by each Guarantor that it may be required to pay the Guaranteed Obligations in full without assistance or support of any other party, and each Guarantor has not been induced to enter into this Guaranty on the basis of a contemplation, belief, understanding or agreement that other parties will be liable to pay or perform the Guaranteed Obligations, or that Lender will look to other parties to pay or perform the Guaranteed Obligations. (f) Other Collateral. The taking or accepting of any other security, collateral or guaranty, or other assurance of payment, for all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations. (g) Release of Collateral. Any release, surrender, exchange, subordination, deterioration, waste, loss or impairment (including without limitation negligent, willful, unreasonable or unjustifiable impairment) of any collateral, property or security at any time existing in connection with, or assuring or securing payment of, all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations. (h) Care and Diligence. The failure of Lender or any other party to exercise diligence or reasonable care in the preservation, protection, enforcement, sale or other handling or treatment of all or any part of any collateral, property or security, including but not limited to any neglect, delay, omission, failure or refusal of Lender (i) to take or prosecute any action for the collection of any of the Guaranteed Obligations or (ii) to foreclose, or initiate any action to foreclose, or, once commenced, prosecute to completion any action to foreclose upon any security therefor, or (iii) to take or prosecute -6-
any action in connection with any instrument or agreement evidencing or securing all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations. (i) Unenforceability. The fact that any collateral, security, security interest or lien contemplated or intended to be given, created or granted as security for the repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any part thereof, shall not be properly perfected or created, or shall prove to be unenforceable or subordinate to any other security interest or lien, it being recognized and agreed by each Guarantor that it is not entering into this Guaranty in reliance on, or in contemplation of the benefits of, the validity, enforceability, collectibility or value of any of the collateral for the Guaranteed Obligations. (j) Offset. The Note, the Guaranteed Obligations and the liabilities and obligations of each Guarantor to Lender hereunder shall not be reduced, discharged or released because of or by reason of any existing or future right of offset, claim or defense of any Borrower against Lender, or any other party, or against payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, whether such right of offset, claim or defense arises in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations (or the transactions creating the Guaranteed Obligations) or otherwise. (k) Merger. The reorganization, merger or consolidation of any Borrower into or with any other Person. (l) Preference. Any payment by any Borrower to Lender is held to constitute a preference under bankruptcy laws or for any reason Lender is required to refund such payment or pay such amount to any Borrower or someone else. (m) Other Actions Taken or Omitted. Any other action taken or omitted to be taken with respect to the Loan Documents, the Guaranteed Obligations, or the security and collateral therefor, whether or not such action or omission prejudices any Guarantor or increases the likelihood that any Guarantor will be required to pay the Guaranteed Obligations pursuant to the terms hereof, it is the unambiguous and unequivocal intention of each Guarantor that it shall be obligated to pay the Guaranteed Obligations when due, notwithstanding any occurrence, circumstance, event, action, or omission whatsoever, whether contemplated or uncontemplated, and whether or not otherwise or particularly described herein, which obligation shall be deemed satisfied only upon the full and final payment and satisfaction of the Guaranteed Obligations. ARTICLE III - REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES Section 3.1 Representations and Warranties. To induce Lender to enter into the Loan Documents and extend credit to the Borrowers, each Guarantor represents and warrants to Lender as follows: (a) Benefit. Guarantor is an Affiliate of the Borrowers, is the owner of a direct or indirect interest in the Borrowers, and has received, or will receive, direct or -7-
indirect benefit from the making of this Guaranty with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations. (b) Familiarity and Reliance. Guarantor is familiar with, and has independently reviewed books and records regarding, the financial condition of each Borrower and is familiar with the value of any and all collateral intended to be created as security for the payment of the Note or Guaranteed Obligations; however, Guarantor is not relying on such financial condition or the collateral as an inducement to enter into this Guaranty. (c) No Representation by Lender. Neither Lender nor any other party has made any representation, warranty or statement to Guarantor in order to induce Guarantor to execute this Guaranty. (d) Guarantor's Financial Condition. As of the date hereof, and after giving effect to this Guaranty and the contingent obligation evidenced hereby, Guarantor is and will be solvent and has and will have assets which, fairly valued, exceed its obligations, liabilities (including contingent liabilities) and debts, and has and will have property and assets sufficient to satisfy and repay its obligations and liabilities. (e) Legality. The execution, delivery and performance by Guarantor of this Guaranty and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereunder do not and will not contravene or conflict with any law, statute or regulation whatsoever to which Guarantor is subject or constitute a default (or an event which with notice or lapse of time or both would constitute a default) under, or result in the breach of, any indenture, mortgage, charge, lien, or any contract, agreement or other instrument to which Guarantor is a party or which may be applicable to Guarantor. This Guaranty is a legal and binding obligation of Guarantor and is enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or other laws of general application relating to the enforcement of creditors' rights. (f) Survival. All representations and warranties made by Guarantor herein shall survive the execution hereof. ARTICLE IV - SUBORDINATION OF CERTAIN INDEBTEDNESS Section 4.1 Subordination of All Guarantor Claims. As used herein, the term "Guarantor Claims" shall mean all debts and liabilities of any Borrower to any Guarantor, whether such debts and liabilities now exist or are hereafter incurred or arise, or whether the obligations of any Borrower thereon be direct, contingent, primary, secondary, several, joint and several, or otherwise, and irrespective of whether such debts or liabilities be evidenced by note, contract, open account, or otherwise, and irrespective of the person or persons in whose favor such debts or liabilities may, at their inception, have been, or may hereafter be created, or the manner in which they have been or may hereafter be acquired by any Guarantor. The Guarantor Claims shall include without limitation all rights and claims of any Guarantor against any Borrower (arising as a result of subrogation or otherwise) as a result of such Guarantor's payment of all or a portion of the Guaranteed Obligations. After the occurrence of an Event of -8-
Default or the occurrence of an event which would, with the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, constitute an Event of Default, no Guarantor shall receive or collect, directly nor indirectly, from any Borrower or any other party any amount upon the Guarantor Claims. Section 4.2 Claims in Bankruptcy. In the event of receivership, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, debtor's relief, or other insolvency proceedings involving any Guarantor as debtor, Lender shall have the right to prove its claim in any such proceeding so as to establish its rights hereunder and receive directly from the receiver, trustee or other court custodian dividends and payments which would otherwise be payable upon Guarantor Claims. Each Guarantor hereby assigns such dividends and payments to Lender. Should Lender receive, for application against the Guaranteed Obligations, any dividend or payment which is otherwise payable to any Guarantor and which, as between any Borrower and such Guarantor, shall constitute a credit against the Guarantor Claims, then, upon payment to Lender in full of the Guaranteed Obligations, such Guarantor shall become subrogated to the rights of Lender to the extent that such payments to Lender on the Guarantor Claims have contributed toward the liquidation of the Guaranteed Obligations, and such subrogation shall be with respect to that proportion of the Guaranteed Obligations which would have been unpaid if Lender had not received dividends or payments upon the Guarantor Claims. Section 4.3 Payments Held in Trust. In the event that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Guaranty, any Guarantor should receive any funds, payment, claim or distribution which is prohibited by this Guaranty, it agrees to hold in trust for Lender an amount equal to the amount of all funds, payments, claims or distributions so received, and agrees that it shall have absolutely no dominion over the amount of such funds, payments, claims or distributions so received except to pay them promptly to Lender, and it covenants promptly to pay the same to Lender. Section 4.4 Liens Subordinate. Each Guarantor agrees that any liens, security interests, judgment liens, charges or other encumbrances upon any Borrower's assets securing payment of the Guarantor Claims shall be and remain inferior and subordinate to any liens, security interests, judgment liens, charges or other encumbrances upon any Borrower's assets securing payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, regardless of whether such encumbrances in favor of any Guarantor or Lender presently exist or are hereafter created or attach. Without the prior written consent of Lender, no Guarantor shall (i) exercise or enforce any creditor's right it may have against any Borrower, or (ii) foreclose, repossess, sequester or otherwise take steps or institute any action or proceedings (judicial or otherwise, including without limitation the commencement of, or joinder in, any liquidation, bankruptcy, rearrangement, debtor's relief or insolvency proceeding) to enforce any liens, mortgage, deeds of trust, security interests, collateral rights, judgments or other encumbrances on assets of any Borrower held by it. ARTICLE V - MISCELLANEOUS Section 5.1 Waiver. No failure to exercise, and no delay in exercising, on the part of Lender, any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The rights of Lender hereunder shall be in addition to all other rights provided by law. No -9-
modification or waiver of any provision of this Guaranty, nor consent to departure therefrom, shall be effective unless in writing and no such consent or waiver shall extend beyond the particular case and purpose involved. No notice or demand given in any case shall constitute a waiver of the right to take other action in the same, similar or other instances without such notice or demand. Section 5.2 Notices. All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals or other communications (any of the foregoing, a "Notice") required, permitted, or desired to be given hereunder shall be in writing sent by telefax (with answer back acknowledged) or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or delivered by hand or reputable overnight courier addressed to the party to be so notified at its address hereinafter set forth, or to such other address as such party may hereafter specify in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.2. Any Notice to any Guarantor shall be deemed effective as to all Guarantors to the extent delivered to one Guarantor; it being understood that Notice to all Guarantors shall not be required if Notice is given to one Guarantor. Any Notice shall be deemed to have been received: (a) three (3) days after the date such Notice is mailed, (b) on the date of sending by telefax if sent during business hours on a Business Day (otherwise on the next Business Day), (c) on the date of delivery by hand if delivered during business hours on a Business Day (otherwise on the next Business Day), and (d) on the next Business Day if sent by an overnight commercial courier, in each case addressed to the parties as follows: If to Lender: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership c/o Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attention: Chief Financial Officer Facsimile No. (502) 357-9001 with a copy to: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership c/o Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile No. (502) 357-9001 with a copy to: Dechert 4000 Bell Atlantic Tower 1717 Arch Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 Attention: David W. Forti, Esquire Facsimile No: (215) 994-2222 If to Guarantor: c/o Trans Healthcare, Inc. 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103 Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 Attention: Anthony Misitano Facsimile No. (717) 730-8722 -10-
with a copy to: Latsha Davis & Yohe, P.C. 4720 Old Gettysburg Road, Suite 101 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17108 Attention: Douglas C. Yohe, Esquire Facsimile No. (717)761-2286 Section 5.3 Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction. (a) THIS AGREEMENT WAS NEGOTIATED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND MADE BY EACH GUARANTOR AND ACCEPTED BY LENDER IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE PROCEEDS OF THE LOAN WERE DISBURSED FROM THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WHICH STATE THE PARTIES AGREE HAS A SUBSTANTIAL RELATIONSHIP TO THE PARTIES AND TO THE UNDERLYING TRANSACTION EMBODIED HEREBY, AND IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, MATTERS OF CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE, THIS GUARANTY AND THE OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE (WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT LAWS) AND ANY APPLICABLE LAW OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY UNCONDITIONALLY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY CLAIM TO ASSERT THAT THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION GOVERNS THIS GUARANTY AND THE NOTE, AND THIS GUARANTY AND THE NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW. (b) ANY LEGAL SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST LENDER OR ANY GUARANTOR ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY MAY AT LENDER'S OPTION BE INSTITUTED IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF NEW YORK, PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW, AND EACH GUARANTOR WAIVES ANY OBJECTIONS WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE BASED ON VENUE AND/OR FORUM NON CONVENIENS OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, AND EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY SUCH COURT IN ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING. EACH GUARANTOR DOES HEREBY DESIGNATE AND APPOINT: CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 111 EIGHTH AVENUE NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10011 -11-
AS ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT TO ACCEPT AND ACKNOWLEDGE ON ITS BEHALF SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL PROCESS WHICH MAY BE SERVED IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK, AND AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SAID AGENT AT SAID ADDRESS AND WRITTEN NOTICE OF SAID SERVICE MAILED OR DELIVERED TO GUARANTOR IN THE MANNER PROVIDED HEREIN SHALL BE DEEMED IN EVERY RESPECT EFFECTIVE SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON GUARANTOR IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH GUARANTOR (I) SHALL GIVE PROMPT NOTICE TO LENDER OF ANY CHANGED ADDRESS OF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT HEREUNDER, (II) MAY AT ANY TIME AND FROM TIME TO TIME DESIGNATE A SUBSTITUTE AUTHORIZED AGENT WITH AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK (WHICH SUBSTITUTE AGENT AND OFFICE SHALL BE DESIGNATED AS THE PERSON AND ADDRESS FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS) AND (III) SHALL PROMPTLY DESIGNATE SUCH A SUBSTITUTE IF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT CEASES TO HAVE AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK OR IS DISSOLVED WITHOUT LEAVING A SUCCESSOR. Section 5.4 Invalid Provisions. If any provision of this Guaranty is held to be illegal, invalid, or unenforceable under present or future laws effective during the term of this Guaranty, such provision shall be fully severable and this Guaranty shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision had never comprised a part of this Guaranty, and the remaining provisions of this Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by the illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision or by its severance from this Guaranty, unless such continued effectiveness of this Guaranty, as modified, would be contrary to the basic understandings and intentions of the parties as expressed herein. Section 5.5 Amendments. This Guaranty may be amended only by an instrument in writing executed by the party or an authorized representative of the party against whom such amendment is sought to be enforced. Section 5.6 Number and Gender/Successors and Assigns. All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural as the identity of the person or persons referred to may require. Without limiting the effect of specific references in any provision of this Guaranty, the term "Guarantor" shall be deemed to refer to each and every person comprising a Guarantor from time to time, as the sense of a particular provision may require, and to include the heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns of such Guarantor, all of whom shall be bound by the provisions of this Guaranty, provided that no obligation of any Guarantor may be assigned except with the written consent of Lender. Without limiting the effect of specific references in any provision of this Guaranty, the term "Borrower" shall be deemed to refer to each and every person comprising a Borrower from time to time, as the sense of a particular provision may require, and to include the heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns of such Borrower. Each reference herein to Lender shall be deemed to include its successors and assigns. This Guaranty shall inure to the benefit of Lender and its respective successors and assigns forever. -12-
Section 5.7 Headings, Etc. The headings and captions of various paragraphs of this Guaranty are for the convenience of reference only and are not to be construed as defining or limiting, in any way, the scope or intent of the provisions hereof. Section 5.8 Recitals. The recital and introductory paragraphs hereof are a part hereof, form a basis for this Guaranty and shall be considered prima facie evidence of the facts and documents referred to therein. Section 5.9 Counterparts. To facilitate execution, this Guaranty may be executed in as many counterparts as may be convenient or required. It shall not be necessary that the signature of, or on behalf of, each party, or that the signature of all persons required to bind any party, appear on each counterpart. All counterparts shall collectively constitute a single instrument. It shall not be necessary in making proof of this Guaranty to produce or account for more than a single counterpart containing the respective signatures of, or on behalf of, each of the parties hereto. Any signature page to any counterpart may be detached from such counterpart without impairing the legal effect of the signatures thereon and thereafter attached to another counterpart identical thereto except having attached to it additional signature pages. Section 5.10 Rights and Remedies. If any Guarantor becomes liable for any indebtedness owing by any Borrower to Lender, by endorsement or otherwise, other than under this Guaranty, such liability shall not be in any manner impaired or affected hereby and the rights of Lender hereunder shall be cumulative of any and all other rights that Lender may ever have against such Guarantor. The exercise by Lender of any right or remedy hereunder or under any other instrument, or at law or in equity, shall not preclude the concurrent or subsequent exercise of any other right or remedy. Section 5.11 Other Defined Terms. Any capitalized term utilized herein shall have the meaning as specified in the Loan Agreement, unless such term is otherwise specifically defined herein. Section 5.12 Entirety. THIS GUARANTY EMBODIES THE FINAL, ENTIRE AGREEMENT OF EACH GUARANTOR AND LENDER WITH RESPECT TO EACH GUARANTOR'S GUARANTY OF THE GUARANTEED OBLIGATIONS AND SUPERSEDES ANY AND ALL PRIOR COMMITMENTS, AGREEMENTS, REPRESENTATIONS, AND UNDERSTANDINGS, WHETHER WRITTEN OR ORAL, RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF. THIS GUARANTY IS INTENDED BY EACH GUARANTOR AND LENDER AS A FINAL AND COMPLETE EXPRESSION OF THE TERMS OF THE GUARANTY, AND NO COURSE OF DEALING BETWEEN ANY GUARANTOR AND LENDER, NO COURSE OF PERFORMANCE, NO TRADE PRACTICES, AND NO EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OR DISCUSSIONS OR OTHER EXTRINSIC EVIDENCE OF ANY NATURE SHALL BE USED TO CONTRADICT, VARY, SUPPLEMENT OR MODIFY ANY TERM OF THIS GUARANTY AGREEMENT. THERE ARE NO ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN ANY GUARANTOR AND LENDER. Section 5.13 Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury. EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY AGREES NOT TO ELECT A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY ISSUE TRIABLE OF -13-
RIGHT BY JURY, AND WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY FULLY TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SUCH RIGHT SHALL NOW OR HEREAFTER EXIST WITH REGARD TO THIS GUARANTY, THE NOTE, THE MORTGAGES, THE LOAN AGREEMENT, OR THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, OR ANY CLAIM, COUNTERCLAIM OR OTHER ACTION ARISING IN CONNECTION THEREWITH. THIS WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IS GIVEN KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY BY EACH GUARANTOR, AND IS INTENDED TO ENCOMPASS INDIVIDUALLY EACH INSTANCE AND EACH ISSUE AS TO WHICH THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY WOULD OTHERWISE ACCRUE. LENDER IS HEREBY AUTHORIZED TO FILE A COPY OF THIS PARAGRAPH IN ANY PROCEEDING AS CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE OF THIS WAIVER BY EACH GUARANTOR. Section 5.14 Cooperation. Each Guarantor acknowledges that Lender and its successors and assigns may (i) sell this Guaranty, the Note and other Loan Documents to one or more investors as a whole loan, (ii) participate the Loan secured by this Guaranty to one or more investors, (iii) deposit this Guaranty, the Note and other Loan Documents with a trust, which trust may sell certificates to investors evidencing an ownership interest in the trust assets, or (iv) otherwise sell the Loan or interest therein to investors (the transactions referred to in clauses (i) through (iv) are hereinafter each referred to as "Secondary Market Transaction"). Each Guarantor shall cooperate with Lender in effecting any such Secondary Market Transaction and shall cooperate to implement all requirements imposed by any Rating involved in any Secondary Market Transaction. Each Guarantor shall provide such information and documents relating to any Guarantor, any Borrower, the Properties and any tenants of the Improvements as Lender may reasonably request in connection with such Secondary Market Transaction. In addition, each Guarantor shall make available to Lender all information concerning its business and operations that Lender may reasonably request. Lender shall be permitted to share all such information with the investment banking firms, Rating Agencies, accounting firms, law firms and other third-party advisory firms involved with the Loan and the Loan Documents or the applicable Secondary Market Transaction. It is understood that the information provided by any Guarantor to Lender may ultimately be incorporated into the offering documents for the Secondary Market Transaction and thus various investors may also see some or all of the information. Lender and all of the aforesaid third-party advisors and professional firms shall be entitled to rely on the information supplied by, or on behalf of, any Guarantor in the form as provided by such Guarantor. Lender may publicize the existence of the Loan in connection with its marketing for a Secondary Market Transaction or otherwise as part of its business development. Section 5.15 Reinstatement in Certain Circumstances. If at any time any payment of the principal of or interest under the Note or any other amount payable by any Borrower under the Loan Documents is rescinded or must be otherwise restored or returned upon the insolvency, bankruptcy or reorganization of any Borrower or otherwise, each Guarantor's obligations hereunder with respect to such payment shall be reinstated as though such payment has been due but not made at such time. Section 5.16 Joint and Several Liability. If more than one Person has executed this Agreement as "Guarantor," the representations, covenants, warranties and obligations of all such Persons hereunder shall be joint and several. -14-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Guaranty all as of the day and year first above written. GUARANTOR: TRANS HEALTHCARE, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President TRANS HEALTHCARE OF OHIO, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI OF OHIO ALFS, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI PROPERTIES, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President
THI SERVICES CORP., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI SPECIALTY HOSPITALS OF OHIO, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President TRANS HEALTH MANAGEMENT, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI OF MARYLAND, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President PHYSICAL THERAPY PLUS, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President
DALE J. CORDIAL, PT, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President DALE J. CORDIAL, PT, INC., NUMBER 4, a Pennsylvania corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THE PT GROUP OF PENN HILLS, a Pennsylvania general partnership By: Trans Healthcare, Inc., a Delaware corporation, its Partner By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO --------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THE PT GROUP PHYSICAL THERAPY FOR WOMEN, a Pennsylvania general partnership By: Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation, its Partner By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO --------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President
THE PT GROUP OF MOON TOWNSHIP, a Pennsylvania general partnership By: Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc., Number 4, a Pennsylvania corporation, its Partner By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO --------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI Therapy Concepts, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI SERVICES OF MARYLAND, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President
SCHEDULE I (BORROWERS) 1. THI of Ohio Real Estate Holding Company, LLC 2. THI of Ohio at Columbus, LLC 3. THI of Ohio at Valley View, LLC 4. THI of Ohio at Northwestern, LLC 5. THI of Ohio at Oak Grove, LLC 6. THI of Ohio at Paradise Oaks, LLC 7. THI of Ohio at Somerset, LLC 8. THI of Ohio at Willard, LLC 9. THI of Ohio at Hillcrest, LLC 10. THI of Ohio at Maple View, LLC 11. THI of Ohio at Wintersong Village, LLC 12. THI of Ohio at Woodland, LLC 13. THI of Ohio at Greenbriar South, LLC 14. THI of Ohio at Golden Years, LLC 15. THI of Maryland Real Estate Holding Co., LLC 16. THI of Maryland at Bel Pre, LLC 17. THI of Maryland at Liberty Heights, LLC 18. THI of Maryland at Marley Neck, LLC 19. THI of Maryland at Northwest, LLC
SCHEDULE II (GUARANTORS)

EXHIBIT 10.2.4 THIS INSTRUMENT PREPARED BY, RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: David W. Forti, Esquire Dechert 4000 Bell Atlantic Tower 1717 Arch Street Philadelphia, PA 19103 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Space Above This Line For Recorder's Use ASSIGNMENT OF LEASES, RENTS, AND CONTRACTS from THI OF OHIO REAL ESTATE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC and THI OF OHIO AT COLUMBUS, LLC, each a Delaware limited liability company, and each having an address at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103 Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 (collectively, as Borrowers) to Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 (Lender) Property: Columbus Quality Care 4301 Clime Road Columbus, OH
THIS ASSIGNMENT OF LEASES, RENTS AND CONTRACTS (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Assignment") made as of November 1, 2002, by THI OF OHIO REAL ESTATE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC, and THI OF OHIO AT COLUMBUS, LLC each a Delaware limited liability company, and each having its principal place of business at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011, collectively as assignor (each, a "Borrower" and collectively, the "Borrowers") to VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207, as assignee (together with its successors and assigns, "Lender"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, this Assignment is given in connection with a loan in the maximum principal sum of FIFTY FIVE MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($55,000,000) (the "Loan") made by Lender to the Borrowers and certain Affiliates of the Borrowers named therein (the "Other Borrowers") pursuant to that certain Loan Agreement dated as of the date hereof (as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Loan Agreement") and evidenced by that certain Promissory Note dated the date hereof made by the Borrowers and the Other Borrowers to Lender (as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Note"); WHEREAS, the Note is secured by that certain Open-Ended Fee and Leasehold Mortgage and Security Agreement dated the date hereof (as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Security Instrument") made by the Borrowers for the benefit of Lender; and WHEREAS, each Borrower desires to further secure the payment of the Debt (as defined in the Loan Agreement) and the performance of all of its obligations under the Note, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the making of the Loan by Lender and the covenants, agreements, representations and warranties set forth in this Assignment: ARTICLE 1 - ASSIGNMENT Section 1.1 Property Assigned. Each Borrower hereby absolutely and unconditionally assigns and grants to Lender the following property, rights, interests and estates, now owned, or hereafter acquired by such Borrower: (a) Leases. All existing and future "leases" and "lease provisions" (as described in Exhibit B annexedhereto and made a part hereof), including, without limitation, the Operating Lease (as defined in the Security Instrument), patient admission and resident care agreements, lettings, subleases, licenses, concessions, tenancies or other occupancy agreements covering or encumbering all or any portion of the Property, 1
affecting the use, enjoyment, or occupancy of all or any part of that certain lot or piece of land, more particularly described in Exhibit A annexed hereto and made a part hereof, or all or any part of the buildings, structures, fixtures, additions, enlargements, extensions, modifications, repairs, replacements and improvements now or hereafter located thereon (collectively, the "Property") and the right, title and interest of such Borrower, its successors and assigns, therein and thereunder. (b) Other Leases and Agreements. All other leases and other agreements, whether or not in writing affecting the use, enjoyment or occupancy of the Property or any portion thereof now or hereafter made, whether made before or after the filing by or against such Borrower of any petition for relief under 11 U.S.C. (S)101 et seq., as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Bankruptcy Code") together with any extension, renewal or replacement of the same, this Assignment of other present and future leases and present and future agreements being effective without further or supplemental assignment. The "leases" and the "lease provisions" described in Subsection 1.1(a) and the leases and other agreements described in this Subsection 1.1(b) are collectively referred to as the "Leases". (c) Rents. All "rents" (as described in Exhibit B annexed hereto and made a part hereof) including, without limitation, (i) rights to payment earned under the Leases for space in the Improvements for the operation of ongoing businesses, such as restaurants, news stands, barber shops, beauty shops and pharmacies and (ii) all other income, consideration, profits and benefits of any nature arising from the ownership, possession, use or operation of the Property, including, without limitation, all Patient Revenues and Self-Pay Receivables, whether paid or accruing before or after the filing by or against such Borrower of any petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code (collectively, the "Rents"); provided, however, "Rents" shall not include "patient trust accounts" or "patient needs funds". (d) Contracts. All contracts and agreements (in each case to the extent assignable without the consent of another person or where any such consents have been or will be obtained) to which such Borrower is a party executed in connection with the development, construction, repair, use, operation, maintenance, enjoyment, acquisition, ownership and management of the Property (including, without limitation, construction contracts, architects' agreements, engineers' contracts, licensing agreements, utility contracts, letters of credit, escrow agreements, maintenance agreements, management agreements, parking agreements, equipment leases, service and supply contracts, agreements for the sale, lease or exchange of goods or other property, and agreements for the performance of services), and, to the extent assignable, all licenses, permits, variances, entitlements and certificates used in connection with the development, construction, repair, use, occupancy, operation, maintenance, enjoyment, acquisition, ownership and management of the Property (including, without limitation, Regulatory Permits, business licenses, licenses to conduct business and all such other permits, licenses and rights, obtained from any Governmental Authority or private Person concerning ownership, operation, use or occupancy of the Property) and any and all modifications, renewals, extensions and substitutions of the foregoing (each a "Contract"; collectively, the "Contracts"; the parties with whom or to whom such contracts have been 2
or may hereafter be given are collectively, the "Contractors"). Without limiting the foregoing, the term "Contracts" shall include: (i) all rights of such Borrower to receive monies due and to become due under or pursuant to the Contracts; (ii) all claims of such Borrower for damages arising out of or for breach of or default under the Contracts; (iii) all rights of such Borrower to terminate, amend, supplement, modify or waive performance under the Contracts, to compel performance and otherwise to exercise all remedies thereunder; and (iv) to the extent not included in the foregoing, all cash and non-cash proceeds, products, rents, revenues, issues, profits, royalties, income, benefits, additions, substitutions, replacements and accessions of and to any and all of the foregoing. (e) Warranties. All of such Borrower's right, title and interest in and to all warranties, guarantees, and other rights of each Borrower or any manager under any management agreement, direct and indirect, against manufacturers, dealers, suppliers, Contractors, and others in connection with the work done or to be done and the materials supplied or to be supplied to or for the Property (collectively, the "Warranties"). (f) Bankruptcy Claims. All of such Borrower's claims and rights (the "Bankruptcy Claims") to the payment of damages arising from any rejection by a lessee of any Lease or Contract under the Bankruptcy Code. (g) Lease Guaranties. All of such Borrower's right, title and interest in and claims under any and all lease guaranties, letters of credit and any other credit support (individually, a "Lease Guaranty", collectively, the "Lease Guaranties") given by any guarantor in connection with any of the Leases or leasing commissions (individually, a "Lease Guarantor", collectively, the "Lease Guarantors") to such Borrower. (h) Proceeds. All proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the Leases, the Rents, the Contracts, the Warranties, the Lease Guaranties and the Bankruptcy Claims. (i) Other. All rights, powers, privileges, options and other benefits of such Borrower under the Leases, the Contracts and the Lease Guaranties, including without limitation the immediate and continuing right to make claim for, receive, collect and receipt for all Rents payable or receivable under the Leases and all sums payable under the Contracts, the Warranties, the Lease Guaranties or pursuant thereto (and to apply the same to the payment of the Debt or the Other Obligations), and to do all other things which such Borrower or any lessor is or may become entitled to do under the Leases, the Contracts, the Warranties, or the Lease Guaranties. 3
(j) Entry. The right, at Lender's option, upon revocation of the license granted herein, to enter upon the Property in person, by agent or by court-appointed receiver, to collect the Rents. (k) Power of Attorney. Such Borrower's irrevocable power of attorney, coupled with an interest, to take any and all of the actions set forth in Section 3.1 of this Assignment and any or all other actions designated by Lender for the proper management and preservation of the Property. (l) Other Rights and Agreements. Any and all other rights of such Borrower in and to the items set forth in subsections (a) through (k) above, and all amendments, modifications, replacements, renewals and substitutions thereof. ARTICLE 2 - TERMS OF ASSIGNMENT Section 2.1 Present Assignment and License Back. It is intended by each Borrower that this Assignment constitute a present, absolute assignment of the Leases, Rents, Contracts, Warranties, Lease Guaranties and Bankruptcy Claims, and not an assignment for additional security only. Nevertheless, subject to the terms of this Section 2.1, Section 7.1(h) of the Security Instrument, the Loan Agreement, the Collection Account Agreement and the Cash Management Agreement, Lender grants to the Borrowers a revocable license to collect, receive, use and enjoy the Rents, as well as other sums due under the Contracts, Warranties and Lease Guaranties. The Borrowers shall hold the Rents, as well as all sums received pursuant to any Contract, Warranty and Lease Guaranty, or a portion thereof sufficient to discharge all current sums due on the Debt, in trust for the benefit of Lender for use in the payment of such sums. Section 2.2 Notice to Lessees. To the extent not already being deposited into the Collection Account pursuant to the Collection Account Agreement, each Borrower hereby authorizes and directs the lessees named in the Leases or any other future lessees or occupants of the Property and all Contractors and Lease Guarantors to pay over to Lender or to such other party as Lender directs all Rents and all sums due under any Contracts, Warranties and Lease Guaranties upon receipt from Lender of written notice to the effect that Lender is then the holder of this Assignment and that an Event of Default (as defined in the Loan Agreement) exists, and to continue so to do until otherwise notified by Lender. Section 2.3 Incorporation by Reference. All representations, warranties, covenants, conditions and agreements contained in the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents as same may be modified, renewed, substituted or extended are hereby made a part of this Assignment to the same extent and with the same force as if fully set forth herein. ARTICLE 3 - REMEDIES Section 3.1 Remedies of Lender. Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default and during the continuation thereof, the license granted to the Borrowers in Section 2.1 of this Assignment shall automatically be revoked, and Lender shall immediately be entitled to possession of all Rents and sums due under any Contracts, Warranties and Lease Guaranties, whether or not Lender enters upon or takes control of the Property. In addition, Lender may, at 4
its option, without waiving such Event of Default and during the continuation thereof, without regard to the adequacy of the security for the Debt, either in person or by agent, nominee or attorney, with or without bringing any action or proceeding, or by a receiver appointed by a court, dispossess each Borrower and its agents and servants from the Property, without liability for trespass, damages or otherwise and exclude each Borrower and its agents or servants wholly therefrom, and take possession of the Property and all books, records and accounts relating thereto and have, hold, manage, lease and operate the Property on such terms and for such period of time as Lender may deem proper and either with or without taking possession of the Property in its own name, demand, sue for or otherwise collect and receive all Rents and sums due under all Contracts, Warranties and Lease Guaranties, including those past due and unpaid with full power to make from time to time all alterations, renovations, repairs or replacements thereto or thereof as Lender may deem proper and may apply the Rents and sums received pursuant to any Contracts, Warranties and Lease Guaranties to the payment of the following in such order and proportion as Lender in its sole discretion may determine, any law, custom or use to the contrary notwithstanding: (a) all expenses of managing and securing the Property, including, without being limited thereto, the salaries, fees and wages of a managing agent and such other employees or agents as Lender may deem necessary, and all expenses of operating and maintaining the Property, including, without being limited thereto, all taxes, charges, claims, assessments, water charges, sewer rents and any other liens, and premiums for all insurance which Lender may deem necessary, and the cost of all alterations, renovations, repairs or replacements, and all expenses incident to taking and retaining possession of the Property; and (b) the Debt, together with all costs and reasonable attorneys' fees. In addition, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default and during the continuation thereof, Lender, at its option, may (1) complete any construction on the Property in such manner and form as Lender deems advisable, (2) exercise all rights and powers of any Borrower under any Leases, Contracts, Warranties or Lease Guaranties, without any interference or objection from such Borrower, including, without limitation, the right to negotiate, execute, cancel, enforce or modify Leases, obtain and evict tenants, and demand, sue for, collect and receive all Rents from the Property and all sums due under any Contracts, Warranties and Lease Guaranties, (3) require each Borrower to pay monthly in advance to Lender, or any receiver appointed to collect the Rents, the fair and reasonable rental value for the use and occupancy of such part of the Property as may be in possession of such Borrower or (4) require each Borrower to vacate and surrender possession of the Property to Lender or to such receiver and, in default thereof, such Borrower may be evicted by summary proceedings or otherwise. Additionally, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default and during the continuation thereof, if and to the extent permitted by law and the terms of the Contracts and Warranties, Lender may, with or without entry upon the Property, at its sole option, take over and enjoy the benefits of the Contracts and Warranties, exercise any Borrower's rights under the Contracts and Warranties, and perform all acts in the same manner and to the same extent as such Borrower might do. Lender may also effect new Regulatory Permits, Contracts and Warranties, cancel or surrender existing Regulatory Permits, Contracts and Warranties, alter or amend the terms of and renew Contracts, Warranties and Regulatory Permits, and make concessions to the Governmental Authorities, the Contractors, warrantors and others. To the extent permitted by law, Lender hereby releases any and all claims which any Borrower has or might have against Lender arising out of any such actions by Lender unless arising from Lender's fraud or willful misconduct. 5
Section 3.2 Other Remedies. Nothing contained in this Assignment and no act done or omitted by Lender pursuant to the power and rights granted to Lender hereunder shall be deemed to be a waiver by Lender of its rights and remedies under the Loan Agreement, the Note, or the other Loan Documents and this Assignment is made and accepted without prejudice to any of the rights and remedies possessed by Lender under the terms thereof. The right of Lender to collect the Debt and to enforce any other security therefor held by it may be exercised by Lender either prior to, simultaneously with, or subsequent to any action taken by it hereunder. Each Borrower hereby absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably waives any and all rights to assert any setoff, counterclaim or crossclaim of any nature whatsoever with respect to its obligations under this Assignment, the Loan Agreement, the Note, the other Loan Documents or otherwise with respect to the Loan in any action or proceeding brought by Lender to collect same, or any portion thereof, or to enforce and realize upon the lien and security interest created by this Assignment, the Loan Agreement, the Note, or any of the other Loan Documents (provided, however, that the foregoing shall not be deemed a waiver of any Borrower's right to assert any compulsory counterclaim if such counterclaim is compelled under local law or rule of procedure, nor shall the foregoing be deemed a waiver of any Borrower's right to assert any claim which would constitute a defense, setoff, counterclaim or crossclaim of any nature whatsoever against Lender in any separate action or proceeding). Section 3.3 Other Security. Lender may take or release other security for the payment of the Debt, may release any party primarily or secondarily liable therefor and may apply any other security held by it to the reduction or satisfaction of the Debt without prejudice to any of its rights under this Assignment. Section 3.4 Non-waiver. The exercise by Lender of the option granted it in Section 3.1 of this Assignment and the collection of the Rents and sums due under the Contracts, Warranties and Lease Guaranties and the application thereof as herein provided shall not be considered a waiver of any default by any Borrower under the Note, the Loan Agreement, the Leases, this Assignment or the other Loan Documents. The failure of Lender to insist upon strict performance of any term hereof shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any term of this Assignment. Neither Borrower shall be relieved of its obligations hereunder by reason of (a) the failure of Lender to comply with any request of any Borrower or any other party to take any action to enforce any of the provisions hereof or of the Loan Agreement, the Note or the other Loan Documents, (b) the release regardless of consideration, of the whole or any part of the Property, or (c) any agreement or stipulation by Lender extending the time of payment or otherwise modifying or supplementing the terms of this Assignment, the Loan Agreement, the Note, or the other Loan Documents. Lender may resort for the payment of the Debt to any other security held by Lender in such order and manner as Lender, in its discretion, may elect. Lender may take any action to recover the Debt, or any portion thereof, or to enforce any covenant hereof without prejudice to the right of Lender thereafter to enforce its rights under this Assignment. The rights of Lender under this Assignment shall be separate, distinct and cumulative and none shall be given effect to the exclusion of the others. No act of Lender shall be construed as an election to proceed under any one provision herein to the exclusion of any other provision. 6
Section 3.5 Bankruptcy. (a) Upon or at any time after the occurrence of an Event of Default, Lender shall have the right to proceed in its own name or in the name of any Borrower in respect of any claim, suit, action or proceeding relating to the rejection of any Lease, including, without limitation, the right to file and prosecute, to the exclusion of such Borrower, any proofs of claim, complaints, motions, applications, notices and other documents, in any case in respect of the lessee under such Lease under the Bankruptcy Code. (b) If there shall be filed by or against any Borrower a petition under the Bankruptcy Code, and such Borrower, as lessor under any Lease, shall determine to reject such Lease pursuant to Section 365(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, then such Borrower shall give Lender not less than ten (10) days' prior notice of the date on which such Borrower shall apply to the bankruptcy court for authority to reject the Lease. Lender shall have the right, but not the obligation, to serve upon such Borrower within such ten-day period a notice stating that (i) Lender demands that such Borrower assume and assign the Lease to Lender pursuant to Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code and (ii) Lender covenants to cure or provide adequate assurance of future performance under the Lease. If Lender serves upon such Borrower the notice described in the preceding sentence, such Borrower shall not seek to reject the Lease and shall comply with the demand provided for in clause (i) of the preceding sentence within thirty (30) days after the notice shall have been given, subject to the performance by Lender of the covenant provided for in clause (ii) of the preceding sentence. ARTICLE 4 - NO LIABILITY,FURTHER ASSURANCES Section 4.1 No Liability of Lender. This Assignment shall not be construed to bind Lender to the performance of any of the covenants, conditions or provisions contained in any Lease Contract, Warranty or Lease Guaranty or otherwise impose any obligation upon Lender. Lender shall not be liable to the Governmental Authorities, the Contractors or others by reason of any default by any party under the Regulatory Permits, the Contracts or the Warranties. Lender shall not be liable for any loss sustained by any Borrower resulting from Lender's failure to let the Property after an Event of Default or from any other act or omission of Lender in managing the Property after an Event of Default unless such loss is caused by the willful misconduct or bad faith of Lender. Lender shall not be obligated to perform or discharge any obligation, duty or liability under the Leases, the Contracts, the Warranties or any Lease Guaranties or under or by reason of this Assignment and each Borrower shall indemnify Lender for, and hold Lender harmless from, any and all liability, loss or damage which may or might be incurred under the Leases, any Lease Guaranties or under or by reason of this Assignment and from any and all claims and demands whatsoever, including the defense of any such claims or demands which may be asserted against Lender by reason of any alleged obligations and undertakings on its part to perform or discharge any of the terms, covenants or agreements contained in the Leases or any Lease Guaranties. Should Lender incur any such liability, the amount thereof, including costs, expenses and reasonable attorneys' fees, shall be secured by this Assignment and by the Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents and each Borrower shall reimburse Lender therefor immediately upon demand and upon the failure of such Borrower to do so Lender may, at its option, declare all sums secured by this Assignment and by the Security Instrument and the other 7
Loan Documents immediately due and payable. This Assignment shall not operate to place any obligation or liability for the control, care, management or repair of the Property upon Lender, nor for the carrying out of any of the terms and conditions of the Leases or any Lease Guaranties; nor shall it operate to make Lender responsible or liable for any waste committed on the Property by the tenants or any other parties, or for any dangerous or defective condition of the Property including, without limitation, the presence of any Hazardous Substances (as defined in the Security Instrument), or for any negligence in the management, upkeep, repair or control of the Property resulting in loss or injury or death to any tenant, licensee, employee or stranger. Section 4.2 No Mortgagee in Possession. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as constituting Lender a "mortgagee in possession" in the absence of the taking of actual possession of the Property by Lender. In the exercise of the powers herein granted Lender, no liability shall be asserted or enforced against Lender, all such liability being expressly waived and released by each Borrower. Section 4.3 Further Assurances. Each Borrower will, at its cost, and without expense to Lender, do, execute, acknowledge and deliver all and every such further acts, conveyances, assignments, notices of assignments, transfers and assurances as Lender shall, from time to time, reasonably require for the better assuring, conveying, assigning, transferring and confirming unto Lender the property and rights hereby assigned or intended now or hereafter so to be, or which such Borrower may be or may hereafter become bound to convey or assign to Lender, or for carrying out the intention or facilitating the performance of the terms of this Assignment or for filing, registering or recording this Assignment and, on demand, will execute and deliver and hereby authorizes Lender to execute in the name of such Borrower to the extent Lender may lawfully do so, one or more financing statements, chattel mortgages or comparable security instruments, to evidence more effectively the lien and security interest hereof in and upon the Leases. Section 4.4 Copies Furnished. Each Borrower shall, upon the reasonable request of Lender, furnish Lender with a complete list of all Contracts and Warranties. Further, if requested, each Borrower shall deliver to Lender executed or certified copies of any management agreement, and all Regulatory Permits, Contracts and Warranties and other written agreements, correspondence and memoranda between such Borrower (and its predecessors in title) and any manager, the Contractors, the Governmental Authorities and others, setting forth the contractual or other arrangements between them. Such requests may be made at any reasonable time. Monthly requests, or more frequent requests if made after the occurrence of an Event of Default, shall be deemed reasonable. ARTICLE 5 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Section 5.1 Definitions. Capitalized terms used and not defined herein shall have the respective meaning ascribed thereto in the Loan Agreement. Section 5.2 Conflict of Terms. In case of any conflict between the terms of this Assignment and the terms of the Loan Agreement, the terms of the Loan Agreement shall prevail. 8
Section 5.3 No Oral Change. This Assignment and any provisions hereof may not be modified, amended, waived, extended, changed, discharged or terminated orally, or by any act or failure to act on the part of any Borrower or Lender, but only by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom the enforcement of any modification, amendment, waiver, extension, change, discharge or termination is sought. Section 5.4 General Definitions. All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement. Unless the context clearly indicates a contrary intent or unless otherwise specifically provided herein, words used in this Assignment may be used interchangeably in singular or plural form and the word "Borrower" shall mean "each Borrower and any subsequent owner or owners of the Property or any part thereof or interest therein," the word "Lender" shall mean "Lender and any subsequent holder of the Note, the word "Note" shall mean "the Note and any other evidence of indebtedness secured by the Loan Agreement," the word "Property" shall include any portion of the Property and any interest therein, the phrases "attorneys' fees," "legal fees" and "counsel fees" shall include any and all attorney's, paralegal and law clerk fees and disbursements, including, but not limited to, fees and disbursements at the pre-trial, trial and appellate levels incurred or paid by Lender in protecting its interest in the Property, the Leases and the Rents and enforcing its rights hereunder; whenever the context may require, any pronouns used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns and pronouns shall include the plural and vice versa. Section 5.5 Inapplicable Provisions. If any term, covenant or condition of this Assignment is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect,this Assignment shall be construed without such provision. Section 5.6 Governing Law. This Assignment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the state in which the Property is located. Section 5.7 Termination of Assignment. Upon payment in full of the Debt, this Assignment shall become and be void and of no effect. Section 5.8 Notices. All notices or other written communications hereunder shall be delivered in accordance with Section 11.6 of the Loan Agreement. Section 5.9 Waiver of Trial by Jury. EACH BORROWER HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, THE RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY ACTION, PROCEEDING OR COUNTERCLAIM, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, RELATING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY TO THE LOAN EVIDENCED BY THE NOTE, THE APPLICATION FOR THE LOAN EVIDENCED BY THE NOTE, THIS ASSIGNMENT, THE NOTE, OR THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS OR ANY ACTS OR OMISSIONS OF LENDER, ITS OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, DIRECTORS OR AGENTS IN CONNECTION THEREWITH. THIS WAVIER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IS GIVEN KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY BY EACH BORROWER, AND IS INTENDED TO ENCOMPASS INDIVIDUALLY EACH INSTANCE AND EACH ISSUE AS TO WHICH THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY WOULD OTHERWISE ACCRUE. LENDER IS EACH 9
HEREBY AUTHORIZED TO FILE A COPY OF THIS PARAGRAPH IN ANY PROCEEDING AS CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE OF THIS WAIVER. Section 5.10 Exculpation. The provisions of Section 11.22 of the Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference into this Assignment to the same extent and with the same force as if fully set forth herein. Section 5.11 Successors and Assigns. This Assignment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Borrower and Lender and their respective successors and assigns forever. Section 5.12 Headings, Etc. The headings and captions of various paragraphs of this Assignment are for convenience of reference only and are not to be construed as defining or limiting, in any way, the scope or intent of the provisions hereof. Section 5.13 Waiver of Notice. To the extent permitted by applicable law, neither Borrower shall be entitled to any notices of any nature whatsoever from Lender except with respect to matters for which this Assignment specifically and expressly provides for the giving of notice by Lender to such Borrower and except with respect to matters for which Lender is required by applicable law to give notice, and each Borrower hereby expressly waives the right to receive any notice from Lender with respect to any matter for which this Assignment does not specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Lender to such Borrower. Section 5.14 Entire Agreement. The Note, the Loan Agreement, the Security Instrument, this Assignment and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the Borrowers and Lender with respect to the transactions arising in connection with the Debt and supersede all prior written or oral understandings and agreements between the Borrowers and Lender with respect thereto. Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that, except as incorporated in writing in the Note, the Loan Agreement, the Security Instrument, this Assignment and the other Loan Documents, there are not, and were not, and no persons are or were authorized by Lender to make, any representations, understandings, stipulations, agreements or promises, oral or written, with respect to the transaction which is the subject of the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument, this Assignment and the other Loan Documents. Section 5.15 Secondary Market. Lender may sell, transfer and deliver the Note and assign the Security Instrument, this Assignment and the other Loan Documents to one or more investors in the secondary mortgage market ("Investors"). In connection with such sale, Lender may retain or assign responsibility for servicing the Loan, including the Note, the Security Instrument, this Assignment and the other Loan Documents, or may delegate some or all of such responsibility and/or obligations to a servicer including, but not limited to, any subservicer or master servicer, on behalf of the Investors. All references to Lender herein shall refer to and include any such servicer to the extent applicable. Section 5.16 Cross-Collateralization. Without limitation to any other right or remedy provided to Lender in this Assignment or any of the other Loan Documents, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that (i) upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, to the 10
fullest extent permitted by law, Lender shall have the right to pursue all of its rights and remedies in one proceeding, or separately and independently in separate proceedings which Lender, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine from time to time, (ii) Lender is not required to marshall assets, sell any collateral for the Loan in any inverse order of alienation, or be subjected to any "one action" or "election of remedies" law or rule, (iii) the exercise by Lender of any remedies against any collateral for the Loan will not impede Lender from subsequently or simultaneously exercising remedies against other collateral for the Loan; (iv) all Liens and other rights, remedies and privileges provided to Lender in the Loan Documents or otherwise shall remain in full force and effect until Lender has exhausted all of its remedies against the collateral for the Loan and all of the collateral for the Loan has been foreclosed, sold and/or otherwise realized upon in satisfaction of the Loan; and (v) all of the Properties shall remain security for the performance of all of the obligations of each Borrower hereunder, under the Note and under any of the other Loan Documents. Section 5.17 Joint and Several Liability. If more than one Person has executed this Assignment as "Borrower," the representations, covenants, warranties and obligations of all such Persons hereunder shall be joint and several. Each Borrower further acknowledges and agrees that it shall be jointly and severally liable for the obligations of all Other Borrowers under the Loan Documents. [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE] 11
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Borrower has executed under seal this Assignment the day and year first above written. THI OF OHIO REAL ESTATE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC, a Delware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER (SEAL) ----------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT COLUMBUS, LLC,a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER (SEAL) ----------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President
ACKNOWLEDGMENT STATE OF NEW YORK ) ) ss: COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On October 30, 2002, before me, a Notary Public in and for said state, personally appeared John E. Bauer, personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their capacity, and that by his/her/their signature on the instrument, the person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument. /s/ KATINA NASH ---------------------------- Notary Public: My commission expires: 6-30-03 ACKNOWLEDGMENT [Notary Seal] STATE OF NEW YORK ) ) ss: COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On October 30, 2002, before me, a Notary Public in and for said state, personally appeared John E. Bauer, personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their capacity, and that by his/her/their signature on the instrument, the person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument. /s/ KATINA NASH ---------------------------- Notary Public: My commission expires: 6-30-03 THIS INSTRUMENT PREPARED BY, RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND [Notary Seal] WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: David W. Forti, Esquire Dechert 4000 Bell Atlantic Tower 1717 Arch Street Philadelphia, PA 19103

EXHIBIT 10.2.5 THIS INSTRUMENT PREPARED BY, RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: David W. Forti, Esquire Dechert 4000 Bell Atlantic Tower 1717 Arch Street Philadelphia, PA 19103 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Space Above This Line For Recorder's Use OPEN-END FEE AND LEASEHOLD MORTGAGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT by THI OF OHIO REAL ESTATE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC and THI OF OHIO AT COLUMBUS, LLC, each a Delaware limited liability company, and each having an address at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103 Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 (collectively, as mortgagor) to VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 (as mortgagee) (THE MAXIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT NOT TO EXCEED $60,000,000) Property: Columbus Quality Care 4301 Clime Road Columbus, OH
OPEN-END FEE AND LEASEHOLD MORTGAGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT THIS OPEN-END FEE AND LEASEHOLD MORTGAGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Security Instrument") is made as of November 1, 2002, by THI OF OHIO REAL ESTATE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC (the "Fee Owner") and THI OF OHIO AT COLUMBUS, LLC (the "Operator"), each a Delaware limited liability company, and each having its principal place of business at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011, collectively as mortgagor (Fee Owner and Operator are referred to herein individually as, a "Borrower" and collectively as, the "Borrowers") for the benefit of VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207, as mortgagee (together with its successors and assigns, "Lender"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, this Security Instrument is given to secure a loan (the "Loan") in the maximum principal sum of FIFTY FIVE MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($55,000,000.00) or so much thereof as may be advanced pursuant to that certain Loan Agreement dated as of the date hereof among the Borrowers, certain Affiliates of the Borrowers named therein (collectively, the "Other Borrowers") and Lender (as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Loan Agreement") and evidenced by that certain Promissory Note dated the date hereof made by the Borrowers and the Other Borrowers to Lender (such Note, together with all extensions, renewals, replacements, components, restatements or modifications thereof being hereinafter referred to as the "Note"); WHEREAS, each Borrower desires to secure the payment of the Debt (as defined in the Loan Agreement) and the performance of all of its obligations under the Note, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents (as defined below); and WHEREAS, this Security Instrument is given pursuant to the Loan Agreement, and payment, fulfillment, and performance by each Borrower of its obligations thereunder and under the other Loan Documents are secured hereby, and each and every term and provision of the Loan Agreement and the Note, including the rights, remedies, obligations, covenants, conditions, agreements, indemnities, representations and warranties of the parties therein, are hereby incorporated by reference herein as though set forth in full and shall be considered a part of this Security Instrument (the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument, that certain Assignment of Leases, Rents and Contracts of even date herewith made by the Borrowers in favor of Lender (the "Assignment of Leases") and all other documents evidencing or securing the Debt or delivered in connection with the making of the Loan are hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Loan Documents"). NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the making of the Loan by Lender and the covenants, agreements, representations and warranties set forth in this Security Instrument:
ARTICLE 1 - GRANTS OF SECURITY Section 1.1 Property Mortgaged. Each Borrower does hereby irrevocably mortgage, grant, bargain, sell, pledge, assign, warrant, transfer and convey to Lender and its successors and assigns, with Power of Sale, all of its right, title and interest in the following property, rights, interests and estates now owned, or hereafter acquired by such Borrower (collectively, the "Property"). (a) Land. (i) The real property described in Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Land") including, without limitation, all As Extracted Collateral (as defined in Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code in the jurisdiction where the Land is located (as the same may be amended, modified or revised from time to time, the "Uniform Commercial Code")), all minerals, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances on, in or under the Land and (ii) Operator's leasehold interest created by that certain Lease of even date herewith by and between Fee Owner and Operator (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Operating Lease"), together with all right, title and interest in and to any right pursuant to Section 365(h) of the Bankruptcy Code (as defined below) or any successor to such Section (x) to possession of any statutory term of years derived from or incident to the Operating Lease or (y) to treat the Operating Lease as terminated; (b) Additional Land. All additional lands, estates and development rights hereafter acquired by such Borrower for use in connection with the Land and the development of the Land and all additional lands and estates therein which may, from time to time, by supplemental mortgage or otherwise be expressly made subject to the lien of this Security Instrument; (c) Improvements. The buildings, structures, fixtures, additions, enlargements, extensions, modifications, repairs, replacements and improvements now or hereafter erected or located on the Land (collectively, the "Improvements"); (d) Easements. All easements, rights-of-way or use, rights, strips and gores of land, streets, ways, alleys, passages, sewer rights, water, water courses, water rights and powers, air rights and development rights, and all estates, rights, titles, interests, privileges, liberties, servitudes, tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances of any nature whatsoever, in any way now or hereafter belonging, relating or pertaining to the Land and the Improvements and the reversion and reversions, remainder and remainders, and all land lying in the bed of any street, road or avenue, opened or proposed, in front of or adjoining the Land, to the center line thereof and all the estates, rights, titles, interests, dower and rights of dower, curtesy and rights of curtesy, property, possession, claim and demand whatsoever, both at law and in equity, of such Borrower of, in and to the Land and the Improvements and every part and parcel thereof, with the appurtenances thereto; (e) Equipment. All "equipment," as such term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code, now owned or hereafter acquired by such Borrower, which is used at or in connection with the Improvements or the Land or is located thereon or therein (including, but not limited to, all Software (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), 2
appliances, machinery, equipment, furniture, furnishings, and electronic data-processing and other office equipment now owned or hereafter acquired by such Borrower (including, without limitation, all beds, linens, radios, televisions, carpeting, telephones, cash registers, computers, lamps, glassware, restaurant and kitchen equipment, all medical, dental, rehabilitation, therapeutic and paramedic equipment and supplies), and any and all additions, substitutions and replacements of any of the foregoing), together with all attachments, components, parts, equipment, accessions and accessories installed thereon or affixed thereto (collectively, the "Equipment"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Equipment shall not include any property belonging to tenants under leases except to the extent that any Borrower shall have any right or interest therein; (f) Fixtures. All Equipment and Goods (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code) now owned, or the ownership of which is hereafter acquired, by such Borrower which is so related to the Land and Improvements forming part of the Property that it is deemed fixtures or real property under the law of the particular state in which the Land is located, including, without limitation, all building or construction materials intended for construction, reconstruction, alteration or repair of or installation on the Land and Improvements, construction equipment, appliances, machinery, plant equipment, fittings, apparatuses, fixtures and other items now or hereafter attached to, installed in or used in connection with (temporarily or permanently) any of the Improvements or the Land, including, but not limited to, engines, devices for the operation of pumps, pipes, plumbing, cleaning, call and sprinkler systems, fire extinguishing apparatuses and equipment, heating, ventilating, plumbing, laundry, incinerating, electrical, air conditioning and air cooling equipment and systems, gas and electric machinery, appurtenances and equipment, pollution control equipment, security systems, disposals, dishwashers, refrigerators and ranges, recreational equipment and facilities of all kinds, and water, gas, electrical, storm and sanitary sewer facilities, utility lines and equipment (whether owned individually or jointly with others, and, if owned jointly, to the extent of such Borrower's interest therein) and all other utilities whether or not situated in easements, all water tanks, water supply, water power sites, fuel stations, fuel tanks, fuel supply, and all other structures, together with all accessions, appurtenances, additions, replacements, betterments and substitutions for any of the foregoing and the proceeds thereof (collectively, the "Fixtures"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Fixtures" shall not include any property which tenants are entitled to remove pursuant to leases except to the extent that any Borrower shall have any right or interest therein; (g) Personal Property. All "accounts" (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), Chattel Paper (including Electronic Chattel Paper and Tangible Chattel Paper), Commercial Tort Claims, Commingled Goods, Deposit Accounts, Documents, General Intangibles, Goods, Instruments, Inventory, Investment Property, Letter of Credit Rights, Payment Intangibles, Supporting Obligations (as such terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code) , furniture, furnishings, objects of art, machinery, goods, tools, supplies, appliances, contract rights, accounts receivable, franchises, licenses, certificates and permits (including any Regulatory Permits), and all other personal property of any kind or character whatsoever other than Fixtures, which are now or hereafter owned by such Borrower and which are located within or about or otherwise relate or pertain to the 3
Land and the Improvements, together with all accessories, accessions, replacements and substitutions thereto or therefor and the proceeds thereof (collectively, together with the Equipment and the Proceeds, the "Personal Property"), and the right, title and interest of such Borrower in and to any of the Personal Property which may be subject to any security interests superior in lien to the lien of this Security Instrument and all proceeds and products of the above; (h) Leases and Rents. All leases and other agreements affecting the use, enjoyment or occupancy of the Land and the Improvements heretofore or hereafter entered into (including, without limitation, the Operating Lease, all patient admissions and resident care agreements, all lettings, subleases, licenses, concessions, tenancies and other occupancy agreements covering or encumbering all or any portion of the Property), whether before or after the filing by or against such Borrower of any petition for relief under 11 U.S.C. (S)101 et seq., as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Bankruptcy Code") (collectively, the "Leases") and all right, title and interest of such Borrower, its successors and assigns therein and thereunder, including, without limitation, cash or securities deposited thereunder to secure the performance by the lessees of their obligations thereunder and all rents, additional rents, revenues (including, without limitation, (i) rights to payment earned under the Leases for space in the Improvements for the operation of ongoing businesses, such as restaurants, news stands, barber shops, beauty shops and pharmacies and (ii) all other income, consideration, profits and benefits of any nature arising from the ownership, possession, use or operation of the Property, including, without limitation Patient Revenues and Self-Pay Receivables), issues and profits (including all oil and gas or other mineral royalties and bonuses) from the Land and the Improvements whether paid or accruing before or after the filing by or against such Borrower of any petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code (collectively, the "Rents") and all proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the Leases and the right to receive and apply the Rents to the payment of the Debt; (i) Condemnation Awards. All awards or payments, including interest thereon, which may heretofore and hereafter be made with respect to the Property, whether from the exercise of the right of eminent domain (including but not limited to any transfer made in lieu of or in anticipation of the exercise of the right), or for a change of grade, or for any other injury to or decrease in the value of the Property; (j) Insurance Proceeds. All proceeds in respect of the Property under any insurance policies covering the Property, including, without limitation, the right to receive and apply the proceeds of any insurance, judgments, or settlements made in lieu thereof, for damage to the Property; (k) Tax Certiorari. All refunds, rebates or credits in connection with reduction in real estate taxes and assessments charged against the Property as a result of tax certiorari or any applications or proceedings for reduction; (l) Rights. The right, in the name and on behalf of such Borrower, to appear in and defend any action or proceeding brought with respect to the Property and to commence any action or proceeding to protect the interest of Lender in the Property; 4
(m) Agreements. All agreements, contracts, certificates, instruments, franchises, permits, licenses, plans, specifications and other documents, now or hereafter entered into, and all rights therein and thereto, respecting or pertaining to the use, occupation, construction, management or operation of the Land and any part thereof and any Improvements or respecting any business or activity conducted on the Land and any part thereof and all right, title and interest of either Borrower therein and thereunder, including, without limitation, the right, upon the happening of any default hereunder, to receive and collect any sums payable to either Borrower thereunder; (n) Trademarks. All tradenames, trademarks, servicemarks, logos, copyrights, goodwill, books and records and all other general intangibles relating to or used in connection with the operation of the Property; (o) Proceeds. All proceeds (including, without limitation, all "proceeds" as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code) of any of the foregoing, including, without limitation, proceeds of insurance and condemnation awards, whether cash, liquidation or other claims or otherwise (collectively, the "Proceeds"); and (p) Other Rights. Any and all other rights of such Borrower in and to the items set forth in Subsections (a) through (o) above. AND without limiting any of the other provisions of this Security Instrument, to the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower expressly grants to Lender, as secured party, a security interest in the portion of the Property which is or may be subject to the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code which are applicable to secured transactions; it being understood and agreed that the Improvements and Fixtures are part and parcel of the Land (the Land, the Improvements and the Fixtures collectively referred to as the "Real Property") appropriated to the use thereof and, whether affixed or annexed to the Real Property or not, shall for the purposes of this Security Instrument be deemed conclusively to be real estate and mortgaged hereby. Section 1.2 Assignment of Rents. Each Borrower hereby absolutely and unconditionally assigns to Lender all of its right, title and interest in and to all current and future Leases and Rents; it being intended by each Borrower that this assignment constitutes a present, absolute assignment and not an assignment for additional security only. Nevertheless, subject to the terms of the Loan Agreement, Collection Account Agreement, Cash Management Agreement, the Assignment of Leases and Section 7.1(h) of this Security Instrument, Lender grants to the Borrowers a revocable license to collect, receive, use and enjoy the Rents. The Borrowers shall hold the Rents, or a portion thereof sufficient to discharge all current sums due on the Debt, for use in the payment of such sums. Section 1.3 Security Agreement. This Security Instrument is both a real property mortgage and a "security agreement" within the meaning of the Uniform Commercial Code. The Property includes both real and personal property and all other rights and interests, whether tangible or intangible in nature, of each Borrower in the Property. By executing and delivering this Security Instrument, each Borrower hereby grants to Lender, as security for the Obligations (hereinafter defined), a security interest in the Fixtures, the Equipment, the Personal Property and 5
other property constituting the Property to the fullest extent that security interests in such property may be granted under and subject to the Uniform Commercial Code (said portion of the Property so subject to the Uniform Commercial Code being called the "UCC Collateral"). If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, Lender, in addition to any other rights and remedies which it may have, shall have and may exercise immediately and without demand, any and all rights and remedies granted to a secured party upon default under the Uniform Commercial Code, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the right to take possession of the UCC Collateral or any part thereof, and to take such other measures as Lender may deem necessary for the care, protection and preservation of the UCC Collateral. Upon request or demand of Lender after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, each Borrower shall, at its expense, assemble the UCC Collateral and make it available to Lender at a convenient place (at the Land if tangible property) reasonably acceptable to Lender. Each Borrower shall pay to Lender on demand any and all expenses, including reasonable legal expenses and attorneys' fees, incurred or paid by Lender in protecting its interest in the UCC Collateral and in enforcing its rights hereunder with respect to the UCC Collateral after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default. Any notice of sale, disposition or other intended action by Lender with respect to the UCC Collateral sent to either Borrower in accordance with the provisions hereof at least ten (10) business days prior to such action, shall, except as otherwise provided by applicable law, constitute reasonable notice to such Borrower. The proceeds of any disposition of the UCC Collateral, or any part thereof, may, except as otherwise required by applicable law, be applied by Lender to the payment of the Debt in such priority and proportions as Lender in its discretion shall deem proper. The principal place of business of each Borrower (Debtor) is as set forth on page one hereof and the address of Lender (Secured Party) is as set forth on page one hereof. Each Borrower's location, for purposes of Section 9-307 of the Uniform Commercial Code, such Borrower's state of formation/incorporation/organization as set forth on page one hereof ("Borrower's Jurisdiction"). Section 1.4 Fixture Filing. Certain of the Property is or will become "fixtures" (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code) on the Land, described or referred to in this Security Instrument, and this Security Instrument, upon being filed for record in the real estate records of the county wherein such Land is situated, shall operate also as a financing statement filed as a fixture filing in accordance with the applicable provisions of said Uniform Commercial Code upon such of the Property that is or may become fixtures. Alternatively, and/or in addition to the foregoing, Lender may file a separate financing statement as a fixture filing to evidence the lien granted hereby. The name of the record owner of the real property described in Exhibit A is THI OF OHIO REAL ESTATE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC. Section 1.5 Pledges of Monies Held. Each Borrower hereby pledges to Lender any and all monies now or hereafter held by Lender or on behalf of Lender in connection with the Loan, including, without limitation, any sums deposited in the Accounts (as defined in the Cash Management Agreement) and Net Proceeds, as additional security for the Obligations until expended or applied as provided in this Security Instrument. 6
CONDITIONS TO GRANT TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the above granted and described Property, including, but not limited to, Operator's leasehold interest in the Property unto and to the use and benefit of Lender and its successors and assigns, forever; WITH POWER OF SALE, to secure payment to Lender of the Obligations at the time and in the manner provided for its payment in the Note and in this Security Instrument; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, these presents are upon the express condition that, if the Borrowers and the Other Borrowers shall well and truly pay to Lender the Debt at the time and in the manner provided in the Note, the Loan Agreement and this Security Instrument, shall well and truly perform the Other Obligations as set forth in this Security Instrument and shall well and truly abide by and comply with each and every covenant and condition set forth herein and in the Note, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents, these presents and the estate hereby granted shall cease, terminate and be void; provided, however, that each Borrower's obligation to indemnify and hold harmless Lender pursuant to the provisions hereof shall survive any such payment or release. ARTICLE 2 - DEBT AND OBLIGATIONS SECURED Section 2.1 Debt. This Security Instrument and the grants, assignments and transfers made in Article 1 are given for the purpose of securing the Debt which by its definition (as set forth in the Loan Agreement) includes, but is not limited to, the obligations of Borrower and the Other Borrowers to pay to Lender the principal and interest owing pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Note. Section 2.2 Other Obligations. This Security Instrument and the grants, assignments and transfers made in Article 1 are also given for the purpose of securing the following (the "Other Obligations"): (a) the performance of all other obligations of each Borrower contained herein; (b) the performance of each obligation of each Borrower and the Other Borrowers contained in the Loan Agreement and any other Loan Document; and (c) the performance of each obligation of each Borrower and the Other Borrowers contained in any renewal, extension, amendment, modification, consolidation, change of, or substitution or replacement for, all or any part of the Note, the Loan Agreement or any other Loan Document. Section 2.3 Debt and Other Obligations. Each Borrower's obligations for the payment of the Debt and the performance of the Other Obligations shall be referred to collectively herein as the "Obligations." 7
ARTICLE 3 - BORROWER COVENANTS Each Borrower covenants and agrees that: Section 3.1 Payment of Debt. Borrower will pay the Debt at the time and in the manner provided in the Loan Agreement, the Note and the Loan Documents. Section 3.2 Incorporation by Reference. All the covenants, conditions and agreements contained in (a) the Loan Agreement, (b) the Note and (c) all and any of the other Loan Documents, are hereby made a part of this Security Instrument to the same extent and with the same force as if fully set forth herein. Section 3.3 Insurance. Borrower shall obtain and maintain, or cause to be maintained, in full force and effect at all times insurance with respect to Borrower and the Property as required pursuant to the Loan Agreement. Section 3.4 Maintenance of Property. Borrower shall cause the Property to be maintained in a good and safe condition and repair. The Improvements, the Fixtures, the Equipment and the Personal Property shall not be removed, demolished or materially altered (except for normal replacement of the Fixtures, the Equipment or the Personal Property, tenant finish and refurbishment of the Improvements) without the reasonable consent of Lender, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Borrower shall promptly repair, replace or rebuild any part of the Property which may be destroyed by any Casualty or become damaged, worn or dilapidated or which may be affected by any Condemnation, and shall complete and pay for any structure at any time in the process of construction or repair on the Land. Section 3.5 Waste. Borrower shall not commit or suffer any material waste of the Property or make any change in the use of the Property which will in any way materially increase the risk of fire or other hazard arising out of the operation of the Property, or take any action that might invalidate or allow the cancellation of any Policy, or do or permit to be done thereon anything that may in any way materially impair the value of the Property or the security of this Security Instrument. Borrower will not, without the prior written consent of Lender, permit any drilling or exploration for or extraction, removal, or production of any minerals from the surface or the subsurface of the Land, regardless of the depth thereof or the method of mining or extraction thereof. 8
Section 3.6 Payment for Labor and Materials. (a) Borrower will promptly pay when due all bills and costs for labor, materials, and specifically fabricated materials ("Labor and Material Costs") incurred in connection with the Property and never permit to exist beyond the due date thereof in respect of the Property or any part thereof any lien or security interest, even though inferior to the liens and the security interests hereof, and in any event never permit to be created or exist in respect of the Property or any part thereof any other or additional lien or security interest other than the liens or security interests hereof except for the Permitted Encumbrances. (b) After prior written notice to Lender, Borrower, at its own expense, may contest by appropriate legal proceeding, promptly initiated and conducted in good faith and with due diligence, the amount or validity or application in whole or in part of any of the Labor and Material Costs, provided that (i) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument or any of the other Loan Documents, (ii) Borrower is permitted to do so under the provisions of any other mortgage, deed of trust or deed to secure debt affecting the Property, (iii) such proceeding shall suspend the collection of the Labor and Material Costs from Borrower and from the Property or Borrower shall have paid all of the Labor and Material Costs under protest, (iv) such proceeding shall be permitted under and be conducted in accordance with the provisions of any other instrument to which Borrower is subject and shall not constitute a default thereunder, (v) neither the Property nor any part thereof or interest therein will be in danger of being sold, forfeited, terminated, canceled or lost, and (vi) Borrower shall have furnished the security as may be required in the proceeding, or as may be reasonably requested by Lender to insure the payment of any contested Labor and Material Costs, together with all interest and penalties thereon. Section 3.7 Performance of Other Agreements. Borrower shall observe and perform each and every term, covenant and provision to be observed or performed by Borrower pursuant to the Loan Agreement, any other Loan Document and any other agreement or recorded instrument affecting or pertaining to the Property and any amendments, modifications or changes thereto. Section 3.8 Change of Name, Identity, Structure or Address. Borrower shall not change Borrower's name, identity (including its trade name or names), principal place of business, organization (from that on page one hereof), Borrower's Jurisdiction, or, if not an individual, Borrower's corporate, partnership or other structure without notifying Lender of such change in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of such change and, in the case of a change in Borrower's structure or Borrower's Jurisdiction, without first obtaining the prior written consent of Lender. Borrower shall execute and deliver to Lender, prior to or contemporaneously with the effective date of any such change, any financing statement or financing statement change required by Lender to establish or maintain the validity, perfection and priority of the security interest granted herein. At the request of Lender, Borrower shall execute a certificate in form satisfactory to Lender listing the trade names under which Borrower intends to operate the Property, and representing and warranting that Borrower does business under no other trade name with respect to the Property. 9
ARTICLE 4 - OBLIGATIONS AND RELIANCES Section 4.1 Relationship of Borrower and Lender. The relationship between any Borrower and Lender is solely that of debtor and creditor, and Lender has no fiduciary or other special relationship with any Borrower, and no term or condition of any of the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents shall be construed so as to deem the relationship between any Borrower and Lender to be other than that of debtor and creditor. Section 4.2 No Reliance On Lender. The general partners, members, principals and (if any Borrower is a trust) beneficial owners of each Borrower are experienced in the ownership and operation of properties similar to the Property, and each Borrower and Lender are relying solely upon such expertise and business plan in connection with the ownership and operation of the Property. No Borrower is relying on Lender's expertise, business acumen or advice in connection with the Property. Section 4.3 No Lender Obligations. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsections 1.1(h) and (m) or Section 1.2 hereof, Lender is not undertaking the performance of (i) any obligations under the Leases; or (ii) any obligations with respect to such agreements, contracts, certificates, instruments, franchises, permits, trademarks, licenses and other documents. (b) By accepting or approving anything required to be observed, performed or fulfilled or to be given to Lender pursuant to this Security Instrument, the Loan Agreement, the Note or the other Loan Documents, including, without limitation, any officer's certificate, balance sheet, statement of profit and loss or other financial statement, survey, appraisal, or insurance policy, Lender shall not be deemed to have warranted, consented to, or affirmed the sufficiency, the legality or effectiveness of same, and such acceptance or approval thereof shall not constitute any warranty or affirmation with respect thereto by Lender. Section 4.4 Reliance. Each Borrower recognizes and acknowledges that in accepting the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents, Lender is expressly and primarily relying on the truth and accuracy of the warranties and representations set forth in Article III of the Loan Agreement without any obligation to investigate the Property and notwithstanding any investigation of the Property by Lender; that such reliance existed on the part of Lender prior to the date hereof, that the warranties and representations are a material inducement to Lender in making the Loan; and that Lender would not be willing to make the Loan and accept this Security Instrument in the absence of the warranties and representations as set forth in Article III of the Loan Agreement. ARTICLE 5 - FURTHER ASSURANCES Section 5.1 Recording of Security Instrument, Etc. Each Borrower forthwith upon the execution and delivery of this Security Instrument and thereafter, from time to time, will cause this Security Instrument and any of the other Loan Documents creating a lien or 10
security interest or evidencing the lien hereof upon the Property and each instrument of further assurance to be filed, registered or recorded in such manner and in such places as may be required by Lender for any present or future law in order to publish notice of and fully to protect and perfect the lien or security interest hereof upon, and the interest of Lender in, the Property. Each Borrower will pay all taxes, filing, registration or recording fees, and all expenses incident to the preparation, execution, acknowledgment and/or recording of the Note, this Security Instrument, the other Loan Documents, any financing statements evidencing Lender's lien in the Property, any note, deed of trust or mortgage supplemental hereto, any security instrument with respect to the Property and any instrument of further assurance, and any modification, continuation, or amendment of the foregoing documents, and all federal, state, county and municipal taxes, duties, imposts, assessments and charges arising out of or in connection with the execution and delivery of this Security Instrument, any deed of trust or mortgage supplemental hereto, any security instrument with respect to the Property or any instrument of further assurance, and any modification or amendment of the foregoing documents, except where prohibited by law so to do. Section 5.2 Further Acts, Etc. Each Borrower will, at its cost, and without expense to Lender, do, execute, acknowledge and deliver all and every such further acts, deeds, conveyances, deeds of trust, mortgages, assignments, notices of assignments, transfers and assurances as Lender shall, from time to time, reasonably require, for the better assuring, conveying, assigning, transferring, and confirming unto Lender the property and rights hereby mortgaged, deeded, granted, bargained, sold, conveyed, confirmed, pledged, assigned, warranted and transferred or intended now or hereafter so to be, or which any Borrower may be or may hereafter become bound to convey or assign to Lender, or for carrying out the intention or facilitating the performance of the terms of this Security Instrument or for filing, registering or recording this Security Instrument (or evidencing the lien created hereby), or for complying with all Legal Requirements. Pursuant to its signature hereunder, and in connection with Lender's filing initial financing statements (and/or fixture filings), amendments, continuations and terminations in all such jurisdictions and with all such governmental authorities as Lender deems desirable (to evidence the lien granted Lender hereunder), each Borrower hereby confirms that the Lender is a person entitled to file a record, and each Borrower has authorized all such filings, within the meaning of Section 9-509 of the Uniform Commercial Code. Each Borrower grants to Lender an irrevocable power of attorney coupled with an interest for the purpose of exercising and perfecting any and all rights and remedies available to Lender at law and in equity, including without limitation such rights and remedies available to Lender pursuant to this Section 5.2. Section 5.3 Changes in Tax, Debt, Credit and Documentary Stamp Laws. (a) If any law is enacted or adopted or amended after the date of this Security Instrument which deducts the Debt from the value of the Property for the purpose of taxation or which imposes a tax, either directly or indirectly, on the Debt or Lender's interest in the Property, each Borrower will pay the tax, with interest and penalties thereon, if any. If Lender is advised by counsel chosen by it that the payment of tax by such Borrower would be unlawful or taxable to Lender or unenforceable or provide the basis for a defense of usury then Lender shall have the option by written notice of not less than one hundred twenty (120) days to declare the Debt immediately due and payable. 11
(b) Neither Borrower will claim or demand or be entitled to any credit or credits on account of the Debt for any part of the Taxes or Other Charges assessed against the Property, or any part thereof, and no deduction shall otherwise be made or claimed from the assessed value of the Property, or any part thereof, for real estate tax purposes by reason of this Security Instrument or the Debt. If such claim, credit or deduction shall be required by law, Lender shall have the option, by written notice of not less than one hundred twenty (120) days, to declare the Debt immediately due and payable. (c) If at any time the United States of America, any State thereof or any subdivision of any such State shall require revenue or other stamps to be affixed to the Note, this Security Instrument, or any of the other Loan Documents or impose any other tax or charge on the same, each Borrower will pay for the same, with interest and penalties thereon, if any. Section 5.4 Splitting of Mortgage. This Security Instrument and the Note shall, at any time until the same shall be fully paid and satisfied, at the sole election of Lender, be split or divided into two or more notes and two or more security instruments, each of which shall cover all or a portion of the Property to be more particularly described therein. To that end, each Borrower, upon written request of Lender, shall execute, acknowledge and deliver, or cause to be executed, acknowledged and delivered by the then owner of the Property, to Lender and/or its designee or designees substitute notes and security instruments in such principal amounts, aggregating not more than the then unpaid principal amount of the Note, and containing terms, provisions and clauses similar to those contained herein and in the Note, and such other documents and instruments as may be reasonably required by Lender. Section 5.5 Replacement Documents. Upon receipt of an affidavit of an officer of Lender as to the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of the Note or any other Loan Document which is not of public record, and, in the case of any such mutilation, upon surrender and cancellation of such Note or other Loan Document, each Borrower will issue, in lieu thereof, a replacement Note or other Loan Document, dated the date of such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note or other Loan Document in the same principal amount thereof and otherwise of like tenor. ARTICLE 6 - DUE ON SALE/ENCUMBRANCE Section 6.1 Lender Reliance. Each Borrower acknowledges that Lender has examined and relied on the experience of each Borrower and its general partners, members, principals and (if such Borrower is a trust) beneficial owners in owning and operating properties such as the Property in agreeing to make the Loan, and will continue to rely on Borrower's ownership of the Property as a means of maintaining the value of the Property as security for repayment of the Debt and the performance of the Other Obligations. Each Borrower acknowledges that Lender has a valid interest in maintaining the value of the Property so as to ensure that, should Borrower default in the repayment of the Debt or the performance of the Other Obligations, Lender can recover the Debt by a sale of the Property. 12
Section 6.2 No Transfer. Neither Borrower shall not permit or suffer any Transfer to occur, unless permitted by the Loan Agreement or unless Lender shall consent thereto in writing. Section 6.3 Transfer Defined. As used in this Article 6 "Transfer" shall mean any voluntary or involuntary sale, conveyance, mortgage, grant, bargain, encumbrance, pledge, assignment, or transfer of: (a) all or any part of the Property or any estate or interest therein including, but not be limited to, (i) an installment sales agreement wherein any Borrower agrees to sell the Property or any part thereof for a price to be paid in installments, (ii) an agreement by any Borrower leasing all or a substantial part of the Property for other than actual occupancy by a space tenant thereunder and its affiliates or (iii) a sale, assignment or other transfer of, or the grant of a security interest in, any Borrower's right, title and interest in and to any Leases or any Rents; or (b) any ownership interest in (i) any Borrower, (ii) SPE Equity Owner or (iii) any indemnitor or guarantor of any Obligations or (iv) any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity owning, directly or indirectly, any interest in any Borrower or any indemnitor or guarantor of any Obligations. Section 6.4 Lender's Rights. Without obligating Lender to grant any consent under Section 6.2 hereof which Lender may grant or withhold in its sole discretion, Lender reserves the right to condition the consent required hereunder upon (a) a modification of the terms hereof and of the Loan Agreement, the Note or the other Loan Documents; (b) an assumption of the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents; (c) payment of all of Lender's expenses incurred in connection with such transfer; (d) receipt of Rating Agency Confirmation; (e) the delivery of a nonconsolidation opinion reflecting the proposed transfer satisfactory in form and substance to Lender; (f) the proposed transferee's continued compliance with the representations and covenants set forth in the Loan Agreement; (g) the delivery of evidence satisfactory to Lender that the single purpose nature and bankruptcy remoteness of each Borrower, its shareholders, partners or members, as the case may be, following such transfers are in accordance with the standards of the Rating Agencies; (h) the proposed transferee's ability to satisfy Lender's then-current underwriting standards; or (i) such other conditions as Lender shall determine in its reasonable discretion to be in the interest of Lender, including, without limitation, the creditworthiness, reputation and qualifications of the transferee with respect to the Loan and the Property. Lender shall not be required to demonstrate any actual impairment of its security or any increased risk of default hereunder in order to declare the Debt immediately due and payable upon a Transfer without Lender's consent. This provision shall apply to every Transfer, other than any Transfer permitted pursuant to the Loan Agreement, regardless of whether voluntary or not, or whether or not Lender has consented to any previous Transfer. ARTICLE 7 - RIGHTS AND REMEDIES UPON DEFAULT Section 7.1 Remedies. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, each Borrower agrees that Lender may take such action, without notice or demand, as it deems advisable to protect and enforce its rights against such Borrower and in and to the Property, including, but not limited to, the following actions, each of which may be pursued concurrently or otherwise, at such time and in such order as Lender may determine, in its sole discretion, without impairing or otherwise affecting the other rights and remedies of Lender: 13
(a) declare the entire unpaid Debt to be immediately due and payable; (b) institute proceedings, judicial or otherwise, for the complete foreclosure of this Security Instrument under any applicable provision of law, in which case the Property or any interest therein may be sold for cash or upon credit in one or more parcels or in several interests or portions and in any order or manner; (c) with or without entry, to the extent permitted and pursuant to the procedures provided by applicable law, institute proceedings for the partial foreclosure of this Security Instrument for the portion of the Debt then due and payable, subject to the continuing lien and security interest of this Security Instrument for the balance of the Debt not then due, unimpaired and without loss of priority; (d) sell for cash or upon credit the Property or any part thereof and all estate, claim, demand, right, title and interest of any Borrower therein and rights of redemption thereof, pursuant to power of sale or otherwise, at one or more sales, as an entirety or in parcels, at such time and place, upon such terms and after such notice thereof as may be required or permitted by law, and, without limiting the foregoing: (i) In connection with any sale or sales hereunder, Lender shall be entitled to elect to treat any of the Property which consists of a right in action or which is property that can be severed from the Real Property covered hereby or any improvements without causing structural damage thereto as if the same were personal property, and dispose of the same in accordance with applicable law, separate and apart from the sale of Real Property. Where the Property consists of Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment or Fixtures, whether or not such Personal Property or Equipment is located on or within the Real Property, Lender shall be entitled to elect to exercise its rights and remedies against any or all of the Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment and Fixtures and the fee and/or leasehold interest therein in such order and manner as is now or hereafter permitted by applicable law; (ii) Lender shall be entitled to elect to proceed against any or all of the Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment and Fixtures and the fee and/or leasehold interest therein in any manner permitted under applicable law; and if Lender so elects pursuant to applicable law, the power of sale herein granted shall be exercisable with respect to all or any of the Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment and Fixtures and the fee and/or leasehold interest therein covered hereby, as designated by Lender and Lender is hereby authorized and empowered to conduct any such sale of any Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment and Fixtures and the fee and/or leasehold interest therein in accordance with the procedures applicable to Real Property; (iii) Should Lender elect to sell any portion of the Property which is Real Property or which is Personal Property, Equipment or Fixtures that the Lender has elected under applicable law to sell together with Real Property in accordance with the laws governing a sale of Real Property, Lender shall give such notice of Event of Default, if any, and election to sell as may then be required by law. Thereafter, upon the expiration of such time and the giving of such notice of sale as may then be required by 14
law, and without the necessity of any demand on any Borrower, Lender at the time and place specified in the notice of sale, shall sell such Real Property or part thereof at public auction to the highest bidder for cash in lawful money of the United States. Lender may from time to time postpone any sale hereunder by public announcement thereof at the time and place noticed therefor; (iv) If the Property consists of several lots, parcels or items of property, Lender shall, subject to applicable law, (A) designate the order in which such lots, parcels or items shall be offered for sale or sold, or (B) elect to sell such lots, parcels or items through a single sale, or through two or more successive sales, or in any other manner Lender designates. Any Person, including any Borrower or Lender, may purchase at any sale hereunder. Should Lender desire that more than one sale or other disposition of the Property be conducted, Lender shall, subject to applicable law, cause such sales or dispositions to be conducted simultaneously, or successively, on the same day, or at such different days or times and in such order as Lender may designate, and no such sale shall terminate or otherwise affect the lien of this Security Instrument on any part of the Property not sold until all the Debt has been paid in full. In the event Lender elects to dispose of the Property through more than one sale, except as otherwise provided by applicable law, each Borrower agrees to pay the costs and expenses of each such sale and of any judicial proceedings wherein such sale may be made; (e) institute an action, suit or proceeding in equity for the specific performance of any covenant, condition or agreement contained herein, in the Note, the Loan Agreement or in the other Loan Documents; (f) recover judgment on the Note either before, during or after any proceedings for the enforcement of this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents; (g) apply for the appointment of a receiver, trustee, liquidator or conservator of the Property, without notice and without regard for the adequacy of the security for the Debt and without regard for the solvency of any Borrower, any guarantor, indemnitor with respect to the Loan or of any Person liable for the payment of the Debt; (h) the license granted to the Borrowers under Section 1.2 hereof shall automatically be revoked and Lender may enter into or upon the Property, either personally or by its agents, nominees or attorneys and dispossess each Borrower and its agents and servants therefrom, without liability for trespass, damages or otherwise and exclude each Borrower and its agents or servants wholly therefrom, and take possession of all books, records and accounts relating thereto and each Borrower agrees to surrender possession of the Property and of such books, records and accounts to Lender upon demand, and thereupon Lender may (i) use, operate, manage, control, insure, maintain, repair, restore and otherwise deal with all and every part of the Property and conduct the business thereat; (ii) complete any construction on the Property in such manner and form as Lender deems advisable; (iii) make alterations, additions, renewals, replacements and improvements to or on the Property; (iv) exercise all rights and powers of any Borrower with respect to the Property, whether in the name of such Borrower or otherwise, 15
including, without limitation, the right to make, cancel, enforce or modify Leases, obtain and evict tenants, and demand, sue for, collect and receive all Rents of the Property and every part thereof; (v) require each Borrower to pay monthly in advance to Lender, or any receiver appointed to collect the Rents, the fair and reasonable rental value for the use and occupation of such part of the Property as may be occupied by such Borrower; (vi) require each Borrower to vacate and surrender possession of the Property to Lender or to such receiver and, in default thereof, such Borrower may be evicted by summary proceedings or otherwise; and (vii) apply the receipts from the Property to the payment of the Debt, in such order, priority and proportions as Lender shall deem appropriate in its sole discretion after deducting therefrom all expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred in connection with the aforesaid operations and all amounts necessary to pay the Taxes, Other Charges, insurance and other expenses in connection with the Property, as well as just and reasonable compensation for the services of Lender, its counsel, agents and employees; (i) exercise any and all rights and remedies granted to a secured party upon default under the Uniform Commercial Code, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing: (i) the right to take possession of the Fixtures, the Equipment and the Personal Property, or any part thereof, and to take such other measures as Lender may deem necessary for the care, protection and preservation of the Fixtures, the Equipment and the Personal Property, and (ii) request each Borrower at its expense to assemble the Fixtures, the Equipment and the Personal Property and make it available to Lender at a convenient place acceptable to Lender. Any notice of sale, disposition or other intended action by Lender with respect to the Fixtures, the Equipment and/or the Personal Property sent to any Borrower in accordance with the provisions hereof at least five (5) days prior to such action, shall constitute commercially reasonable notice to such Borrower; (j) apply any sums then deposited or held in escrow or otherwise by or on behalf of Lender in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument or any other Loan Document to the payment of the following items in any order in its uncontrolled discretion: (i) Taxes and Other Charges; (ii) Insurance Premiums; (iii) Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the Note; (iv) Amortization of the unpaid principal balance of the Note; (v) All other sums payable pursuant to the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents, including without limitation advances made by Lender pursuant to the terms of this Security Instrument; (k) pursue such other remedies as Lender may have under applicable law; 16
(l) apply the undisbursed balance of any Net Proceeds Deficiency deposit, together with interest thereon, to the payment of the Debt in such order, priority and proportions as Lender shall deem to be appropriate in its discretion; or (m) institute proceedings, judicial or otherwise, for the complete foreclosure of this Security Instrument as it relates to Fee Owner's fee interest in the Property without foreclosing on that portion of the Property which constitutes Operator's leasehold interest therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Operator agrees that Lender may, in its sole discretion, terminate any and all operating leases to which either Fee Owner or Operator is now or hereafter may be a party. In the event of a sale, by foreclosure, power of sale or otherwise, of less than all of Property, this Security Instrument shall continue as a lien and security interest on the remaining portion of the Property unimpaired and without loss of priority. Section 7.2 Application of Proceeds. The purchase money, proceeds and avails of any disposition of the Property, and or any part thereof, or any other sums collected by Lender pursuant to the Note, this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents, may be applied by Lender to the payment of the Debt in such priority and proportions as Lender in its discretion shall deem proper, to the extent consistent with law. Section 7.3 Right to Cure Defaults. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default or if any Borrower fails to make any payment or to do any act as herein provided, Lender may, but without any obligation to do so and without notice to or demand on any Borrower and without releasing any Borrower from any obligation hereunder, make or do the same in such manner and to such extent as Lender may deem necessary to protect the security hereof. Lender is authorized to enter upon the Property for such purposes, or appear in, defend, or bring any action or proceeding to protect its interest in the Property or to foreclose this Security Instrument or collect the Debt, and the cost and expense thereof (including reasonable attorneys' fees to the extent permitted by law), with interest as provided in this Section 7.3, shall constitute a portion of the Debt and shall be due and payable to Lender upon demand. All such costs and expenses incurred by Lender in remedying such Event of Default or such failed payment or act or in appearing in, defending, or bringing any such action or proceeding shall bear interest at the Default Rate, for the period after notice from Lender that such cost or expense was incurred to the date of payment to Lender. All such costs and expenses incurred by Lender together with interest thereon calculated at the Default Rate shall be deemed to constitute a portion of the Debt and be secured by this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents and shall be immediately due and payable upon demand by Lender therefor. Section 7.4 Actions and Proceedings. Lender has the right to appear in and defend any action or proceeding brought with respect to the Property and to bring any action or proceeding, in the name and on behalf of any Borrower, which Lender, in its discretion, decides should be brought to protect its interest in the Property. Section 7.5 Recovery of Sums Required to be Paid. Lender shall have the right from time to time to take action to recover any sum or sums which constitute a part of the Debt as the same become due, without regard to whether or not the balance of the Debt shall be due, 17
and without prejudice to the right of Lender thereafter to bring an action of foreclosure, or any other action, for a default or defaults by any Borrower existing at the time such earlier action was commenced. Section 7.6 Examination of Books and Records. At reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, Lender, its agents, accountants and attorneys shall have the right to examine the records, books, management and other papers of any Borrower which reflect upon its financial condition, at the Property or at any office regularly maintained by such Borrower where the books and records are located. Lender and its agents shall have the right to make copies and extracts from the foregoing records and other papers. In addition, at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, Lender, its agents, accountants and attorneys shall have the right to examine and audit the books and records of any Borrower pertaining to the income, expenses and operation of the Property during reasonable business hours at any office of such Borrower where the books and records are located. This Section 7.6 shall apply throughout the term of the Note and without regard to whether an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. Section 7.7 Other Rights, Etc. (a) The failure of Lender to insist upon strict performance of any term hereof shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any term of this Security Instrument. Neither Borrower shall be relieved of its obligations hereunder by reason of (i) the failure of Lender to comply with any request of any Borrower or any guarantor or indemnitor with respect to the Loan to take any action to foreclose this Security Instrument or otherwise enforce any of the provisions hereof or of the Note or the other Loan Documents, (ii) the release, regardless of consideration, of the whole or any part of the Property, or of any person liable for the Debt or any portion thereof, or (iii) any agreement or stipulation by Lender extending the time of payment or otherwise modifying or supplementing the terms of the Note, this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents. (b) It is agreed that the risk of loss or damage to the Property is on each Borrower, and Lender shall have no liability whatsoever for decline in value of the Property, for failure to maintain the Policies, or for failure to determine whether insurance in force is adequate as to the amount of risks insured. Possession by Lender shall not be deemed an election of judicial relief, if any such possession is requested or obtained, with respect to any Property or collateral not in Lender's possession. (c) Lender may resort for the payment of the Debt to any other security held by Lender in such order and manner as Lender, in its discretion, may elect. Lender may take action to recover the Debt, or any portion thereof, or to enforce any covenant hereof without prejudice to the right of Lender thereafter to foreclose this Security Instrument. The rights of Lender under this Security Instrument shall be separate, distinct and cumulative and none shall be given effect to the exclusion of the others. No act of Lender shall be construed as an election to proceed under any one provision herein to the exclusion of any other provision. Lender shall not be limited exclusively to the rights and remedies herein stated but shall be entitled to every right and remedy now or hereafter afforded at law or in equity. 18
Section 7.8 Right to Release Any Portion of the Property. Lender may release any portion of the Property for such consideration as Lender may require without, as to the remainder of the Property, in any way impairing or affecting the lien or priority of this Security Instrument, or improving the position of any subordinate lienholder with respect thereto, except to the extent that the obligations hereunder shall have been reduced by the actual monetary consideration, if any, received by Lender for such release, and may accept by assignment, pledge or otherwise any other property in place thereof as Lender may require without being accountable for so doing to any other lienholder. This Security Instrument shall continue as a lien and security interest in the remaining portion of the Property. Notwithstanding the forgoing, upon full payment of all Debt, at the time and manner provided in the Loan Documents, this conveyance or lien shall be null and void and upon demand therefor following such payment, a release of this Security Instrument shall be promptly provided by Lender to the Borrowers, at the sole cost and expense of the Borrowers. Section 7.9 Violation of Laws. If the Property is not in material compliance with Legal Requirements, Lender may impose additional requirements upon each Borrower in connection herewith including, without limitation, monetary reserves or financial equivalents. Section 7.10 Recourse and Choice of Remedies. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Security Instrument or the Loan Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 11.22 of the Loan Agreement, Lender and other Indemnified Parties (as hereinafter defined) are entitled to enforce the obligations of any Borrower and any guarantor and indemnitor contained in Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement without first resorting to or exhausting any security or collateral and without first having recourse to the Note or any of the Property, through foreclosure, exercise of a power of sale or acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise, and in the event Lender commences a foreclosure action against the Property, or otherwise exercises the power of sale pursuant to this Security Instrument, Lender is entitled to pursue a deficiency judgment with respect to such obligations against any Borrower and any guarantor or indemnitor with respect to the Loan. The provisions of Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement are exceptions to any non-recourse or exculpation provisions in the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents, and any Borrower and any guarantor or indemnitor with respect to the Loan are fully and personally liable for the obligations pursuant to Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement. The liability of any Borrower and any guarantor or indemnitor with respect to the Loan pursuant to Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement is not limited to the original principal amount of the Note. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall inhibit or prevent Lender from foreclosing or exercising a power of sale pursuant to this Security Instrument or exercising any other rights and remedies pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents, whether simultaneously with foreclosure proceedings or in any other sequence. A separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against any Borrower pursuant to Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement, whether or not action is brought against any other Person or whether or not any other Person is joined in the action or actions. In addition, Lender shall have the right but not the obligation to join and participate in, as a party if it so elects, any administrative or judicial proceedings or actions initiated in connection with any matter addressed in the Environmental Indemnity. 19
Section 7.11 Right of Entry. Upon reasonable notice to the Borrowers, Lender and its agents shall have the right to enter and inspect the Property at all reasonable times. ARTICLE 8 - LEASEHOLD PROVISIONS Section 8.1 Operator shall pay or cause to be paid all rents, additional rents and other sums required to be paid by Operator as tenant under and pursuant to the provisions of the Operating Lease on or before the date on which such rent or other charge is payable. Fee Owner and Operator shall (i) diligently perform and observe all of the terms, covenants and conditions of the Operating Lease, as landlord and tenant, respectively, thereunder, to be performed and observed prior to the expiration of any applicable grace period therein provided, (ii) promptly notify the Lender of the giving of any notice to the Fee Owner or Operator, as applicable, of any default by such party as landlord or tenant thereunder, and promptly deliver to the Lender a true copy of each such notice except, in the case of clauses (i) through (ii) above, for any such defaults or breaches as would not be reasonably expected to have a material adverse effect. Section 8.2 Neither Borrower shall (i) surrender the leasehold estate created by the Operating Lease or terminate or cancel the Operating Lease, (ii) modify, change, supplement, alter or amend the Operating Lease, in any respect, either orally or in writing, in any manner that materially impairs the collateral value of the leasehold created by the Operating Lease or in any manner that would be materially adverse to the Lender. Each Borrower hereby assigns to the Lender, as further security for the payment and performance of the Obligations and observance of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Security Instrument, all of the rights, privileges and prerogatives of such Borrower, as landlord and tenant under the Operating Lease following the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, to surrender the leasehold estate created by the Operating Lease or to terminate, cancel, modify, change, supplement, alter or amend the Operating Lease, and any such surrender of the leasehold estate created by the Operating Lease or termination, cancellation, modification, change, supplement, alteration or amendment of the Operating Lease not permitted pursuant to the foregoing terms of this Section 6.21(b) shall be void and of no force or effect. Section 8.3 If at any time after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, any Borrower shall default in the performance or observance of any term, covenant or condition of the Operating Lease to be performed or observed by it, then, without limiting the generality of the other provisions of this Security Instrument, and without waiving or releasing such Borrower from any of its Obligations, the Lender shall have the right, but shall be under no obligation, to pay any sums and to perform any act or take any action as may be appropriate to cause all of the terms, covenants and conditions of the Operating Lease on the part of such Borrower to be performed or observed or to be promptly performed or observed on behalf of such Borrower, to the end that the rights of such Borrower in, to and under the Operating Lease shall be kept unimpaired and free from default. If the Lender shall make any payment or perform any act or take action in accordance with the preceding sentence, the Lender will notify the Borrowers thereof. In any such event, upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default and subject to the rights of tenants, subtenants and other occupants under the Leases, the Lender and any person designated by the Lender shall have, and are hereby granted, the right to enter upon the Land at any time and from time to time for the purpose of taking any such action. If Fee Owner shall deliver to the Lender a copy of any notice of default sent to 20
Operator, such notice shall constitute full protection to the Lender for any action taken or omitted to be taken by the Lender, in good faith, in reliance thereon. Section 8.4 In the event of the bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency of any Borrower, any attempt by such Borrower to surrender its estate, or any portion thereof, under the Operating Lease, or any attempt under such circumstances by such Borrower to terminate, cancel or acquiesce in the rejection of the Operating Lease without the consent of the Lender shall be null and void. Each Borrower hereby expressly releases, assigns, relinquishes and surrenders unto the Lender all of its right, power and authority to terminate, cancel, acquiesce in the rejection of, modify, change, supplement, alter or amend the Operating Lease in any respect, either orally or in writing, in the event of the bankruptcy, reorganization or insolvency of such Borrower, and any attempt on the part of such Borrower to exercise any such right without the consent of the Lender shall be null and void. Each Borrower hereby irrevocably appoints the Lender as its true and lawful attorney-in-fact which power of attorney shall be coupled with an interest, for the purpose of exercising its rights pursuant to Section 365(h) of the Bankruptcy Code or any successor to such Section (i) to obtain for the benefit of such Borrower or the Lender a right to possession or statutory term of years derived from or incident to the Operating Lease, or (ii) to treat the Operating Lease as terminated. Section 8.5 Notwithstanding the rejection of the Operating Lease by the Fee Owner, as debtor in possession, or by a trustee for the Fee Owner, pursuant to Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code, neither the lien of this Security Instrument nor the Lender's rights with respect to the Operating Lease shall be affected or impaired by reason thereof. In the event that Operator shall remain in possession of the Property following a rejection of the Operating Lease by the Fee Owner, as debtor in possession, or by a trustee for the Fee Owner, Operator agrees that it shall not exercise any right of offset against the rent payable under the Operating Lease, pursuant to Section 365(h)(2) of the Bankruptcy Code, or otherwise, without the prior consent of the Lender thereto. ARTICLE 9 - INDEMNIFICATION Section 9.1 General Indemnification. Each Borrower shall, at its sole cost and expense, protect, defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless the Indemnified Parties from and against any and all claims, suits, liabilities (including, without limitation, strict liabilities), actions, proceedings, obligations, debts, damages, losses, costs, expenses, diminutions in value, fines, penalties, charges, fees, expenses, judgments, awards, amounts paid in settlement, punitive damages, foreseeable and unforeseeable consequential damages, of whatever kind or nature (including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees and other costs of defense) (collectively, the "Losses") imposed upon or incurred by or asserted against any Indemnified Parties and directly or indirectly arising out of or in any way relating to any one or more of the following: (a) ownership of this Security Instrument, the Property or any interest therein or receipt of any Rents; (b) any amendment to, or restructuring of, the Debt, and the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument, or any other Loan Documents; (c) any and all lawful action that may be taken by Lender in connection with the enforcement of the provisions of this Security Instrument or the Loan Agreement or the Note or any of the other Loan Documents, whether or not suit is filed in connection with same, or in connection with any Borrower, any guarantor or indemnitor and/or any partner, joint venturer or shareholder thereof becoming a party to a voluntary or 21
involuntary federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding; (d) any accident, injury to or death of persons or loss of or damage to property occurring in, on or about the Property or any part thereof or on the adjoining sidewalks, curbs, adjacent property or adjacent parking areas, streets or ways; (e) any use, nonuse or condition in, on or about the Property or any part thereof or on the adjoining sidewalks, curbs, adjacent property or adjacent parking areas, streets or ways; (f) any failure on the part of any Borrower to perform or be in compliance with any of the terms of this Security Instrument; (g) performance of any labor or services or the furnishing of any materials or other property in respect of the Property or any part thereof; (h) the failure of any person to file timely with the Internal Revenue Service an accurate Form 1099-B, Statement for Recipients of Proceeds from Real Estate, Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions, which may be required in connection with this Security Instrument, or to supply a copy thereof in a timely fashion to the recipient of the proceeds of the transaction in connection with which this Security Instrument is made; (i) any failure of the Property to be in compliance with any Legal Requirements; (j) the enforcement by any Indemnified Party of the provisions of this Article 9; (k) any and all claims and demands whatsoever which may be asserted against Lender by reason of any alleged obligations or undertakings on its part to perform or discharge any of the terms, covenants, or agreements contained in any Lease; (1) the payment of any commission, charge or brokerage fee to anyone claiming through any Borrower which may be payable in connection with the funding of the Loan; or (m) any misrepresentation made by any Borrower in this Security Instrument or any other Loan Document. Any amounts payable to Lender by reason of the application of this Section 9.1 shall become immediately due and payable and shall bear interest at the Default Rate from the date loss or damage is sustained by Lender until paid. For purposes of this Article 9, the term "Indemnified Parties" means Lender and any Person who is or will have been involved in the origination of the Loan, any Person who is or will have been involved in the servicing of the Loan secured hereby, any Person in whose name the encumbrance created by this Security Instrument is or will have been recorded, persons and entities who may hold or acquire or will have held a full or partial interest in the Loan secured hereby (including, but not limited to, investors or prospective investors in the Securities, as well as custodians, trustees and other fiduciaries who hold or have held a full or partial interest in the Loan secured hereby for the benefit of third parties) as well as the respective directors, officers, shareholders, partners, employees, agents, servants, representatives, contractors, subcontractors, affiliates, subsidiaries, participants, successors and assigns of any and all of the foregoing (including but not limited to any other Person who holds or acquires or will have held a participation or other full or partial interest in the Loan, whether during the term of the Loan or as a part of or following a foreclosure of the Loan and including, but not limited to, any successors by merger, consolidation or acquisition of all or a substantial portion of Lender's assets and business). Section 9.2 Mortgage And/or Intangible Tax. Each Borrower shall, at its sole cost and expense, protect, defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless the Indemnified Parties from and against any and all Losses imposed upon or incurred by or asserted against any Indemnified Parties and directly or indirectly arising out of or in any way relating to any tax on the making and/or recording of this Security Instrument, the Note or any of the other Loan Documents, but excluding any income, franchise or other similar taxes. Section 9.3 Erisa Indemnification. Each Borrower shall, at its sole cost and expense, protect, defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless the Indemnified Parties from and 22
against any and all Losses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in the investigation, defense, and settlement of Losses incurred in correcting any prohibited transaction or in the sale of a prohibited loan, and in obtaining any individual prohibited transaction exemption under ERISA that may be required, in Lender's sole discretion) that Lender may incur, directly or indirectly, as a result of a default under Sections 3.1.8 or 4.2.11 of the Loan Agreement. Section 9.4 Intentionally Omitted. Section 9.5 Duty to Defend; Attorneys' Fees and Other Fees and Expenses. Upon written request by any Indemnified Party, each Borrower shall defend such Indemnified Party (if requested by any Indemnified Party, in the name of the Indemnified Party) by attorneys and other professionals approved by the Indemnified Parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the defendants in any such claim or proceeding include any Borrower and any Indemnified Party and such Borrower and such Indemnified Party shall have reasonably concluded that there are any legal defenses available to it and/or other Indemnified Parties that are different from or additional to those available to such Borrower, such Indemnified Party shall have the right to select separate counsel to assert such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such Indemnified Party, provided that no compromise or settlement shall be entered without such Borrower's consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Upon demand, such Borrower shall pay or, in the sole and absolute discretion of the Indemnified Parties, reimburse, the Indemnified Parties for the payment of reasonable fees and disbursements of attorneys, engineers, environmental consultants, laboratories and other professionals in connection therewith. ARTICLE 10 - WAIVERS Section 10.1 Waiver of Counterclaim. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower hereby waives the right to assert a counterclaim, other than a mandatory or compulsory counterclaim, in any action or proceeding brought against it by Lender arising out of or in any way connected with this Security Instrument, the Loan Agreement, the Note, any of the other Loan Documents, or the Obligations. Section 10.2 Marshalling and Other Matters. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower, for itself and its successors and assigns, hereby waives the benefit of all appraisement, valuation, stay, extension, reinstatement and redemption laws now or hereafter in force and all rights of marshalling in the event of any sale hereunder of the Property or any part thereof or any interest therein. Further, each Borrower hereby expressly waives any and all rights of redemption from sale under any order or decree of foreclosure of this Security Instrument on behalf of such Borrower, and on behalf of each and every person acquiring any interest in or title to the Property subsequent to the date of this Security Instrument and on behalf of all persons to the extent permitted by applicable law. Section 10.3 Waiver of Notice. To the extent permitted by applicable law, neither Borrower shall be entitled to any notices of any nature whatsoever from Lender except with respect to matters for which this Security Instrument specifically and expressly provides for the giving of notice by Lender to such Borrower and except with respect to matters for which Lender 23
is required by applicable law to give notice, and each Borrower hereby expressly waives the right to receive any notice from Lender with respect to any matter for which this Security Instrument does not specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Lender to such Borrower. Section 10.4 Waiver of Statute of Limitations. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower hereby expressly waives and releases to the fullest extent permitted by law, the pleading of any statute of limitations as a defense to payment of the Debt or performance of its Other Obligations. Section 10.5 Survival. The indemnifications made pursuant to Sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 herein and the representations and warranties, covenants, and other obligations arising under the Environmental Indemnity, shall continue indefinitely in full force and effect and shall survive and shall in no way be impaired by: any satisfaction, release or other termination of this Security Instrument, any assignment or other transfer of all or any portion of this Security Instrument or Lender's interest in the Property (but, in such case, shall benefit both Indemnified Parties and any assignee or transferee), any exercise of Lender's rights and remedies pursuant hereto including but not limited to foreclosure or acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure, any exercise of any rights and remedies pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Note or any of the other Loan Documents, any transfer of all or any portion of the Property (whether by any Borrower or by Lender following foreclosure or acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or at any other time), any amendment to this Security Instrument, the Loan Agreement, the Note or the other Loan Documents, and any act or omission that might otherwise be construed as a release or discharge of any Borrower from the obligations pursuant hereto. ARTICLE 11 - EXCULPATION The provisions of Section 11.22 of the Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference into this Security Instrument to the same extent and with the same force as if fully set forth herein. ARTICLE 12 - NOTICES All notices or other written communications hereunder shall be delivered in accordance with Section 11.6 of the Loan Agreement. ARTICLE 13 - APPLICABLE LAW Section 13.1 Governing Law. This Security Instrument shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State in which the Land is located. Section 13.2 Usury Laws. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, (a) all agreements and communications between any Borrower and Lender are hereby and shall automatically be limited so that, after taking into account all amounts deemed interest, the interest contracted for, charged or received by Lender shall never exceed the maximum lawful rate or amount, (b) in calculating whether any interest exceeds the lawful maximum, all such 24
interest shall be amortized, prorated, allocated and spread over the full amount and term of all principal indebtedness of the Borrowers to Lender, and (c) if through any contingency or event, Lender receives or is deemed to receive interest in excess of the lawful maximum, any such excess shall be deemed to have been applied toward payment of the principal of any and all then outstanding indebtedness of the Borrowers to Lender, or if there is no such indebtedness, shall immediately be returned to the Borrowers. Section 13.3 Provisions Subject to Applicable Law. All rights, powers and remedies provided in this Security Instrument may be exercised only to the extent that the exercise thereof does not violate any applicable provisions of law and are intended to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Security Instrument invalid, unenforceable or not entitled to be recorded, registered or filed under the provisions of any applicable law. ARTICLE 14 - DEFINITIONS All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement. Unless the context clearly indicates a contrary intent or unless otherwise specifically provided herein, words used in this Security Instrument may be used interchangeably in singular or plural form and the word "Borrower" shall mean "each Borrower and any subsequent owner or owners of the Property or any part thereof or any interest therein," the word "Lender" shall mean "Lender and any subsequent holder of the Note," the word "Note" shall mean "the Note and any other evidence of indebtedness secured by this Security Instrument," the word "Property" shall include any portion of the Property and any interest therein, and the phrases "attorneys' fees", "legal fees" and "counsel fees" shall include any and all attorneys', paralegal and law clerk fees and disbursements, including, but not limited to, fees and disbursements at the pre-trial, trial and appellate levels incurred or paid by Lender in protecting its interest in the Property, the Leases and the Rents and enforcing its rights hereunder. ARTICLE 15 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Section 15.1 No Oral Change. This Security Instrument, and any provisions hereof, may not be modified, amended, waived, extended, changed, discharged or terminated orally or by any act or failure to act on the part of any Borrower or Lender, but only by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any modification, amendment, waiver, extension, change, discharge or termination is sought. Section 15.2 Successors and Assigns. This Security Instrument shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Borrower and Lender and their respective successors and assigns forever. Section 15.3 Inapplicable Provisions. If any term, covenant or condition of the Loan Agreement, the Note or this Security Instrument is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the Loan Agreement, the Note and this Security Instrument shall be construed without such provision. 25
Section 15.4 Headings, Etc. The headings and captions of various Sections of this Security Instrument are for convenience of reference only and are not to be construed as defining or limiting, in any way, the scope or intent of the provisions hereof. Section 15.5 Intentionally Omitted. Section 15.6 Subrogation. If any or all of the proceeds of the Note have been used to extinguish, extend or renew any indebtedness heretofore existing against the Property, then, to the extent of the funds so used, Lender shall be subrogated to all of the rights, claims, liens, titles, and interests existing against the Property heretofore held by, or in favor of, the holder of such indebtedness and such former rights, claims, liens, titles, and interests, if any, are not waived but rather are continued in full force and effect in favor of Lender and are merged with the lien and security interest created herein as cumulative security for the repayment of the Debt, the performance and discharge of any Borrower's obligations hereunder, under the Loan Agreement, the Note and the other Loan Documents and the performance and discharge of the Other Obligations. Section 15.7 Entire Agreement. The Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the Borrowers and Lender with respect to the transactions arising in connection with the Debt and supersede all prior written or oral understandings and agreements between the Borrowers and Lender with respect thereto. Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that, except as incorporated in writing in the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents, there are not, and were not, and no persons are or were authorized by Lender to make, any representations, understandings, stipulations, agreements or promises, oral or written, with respect to the transaction which is the subject of the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents. Section 15.8 Limitation On Lender's Responsibility. No provision of this Security Instrument shall operate to place any obligation or liability for the control, care, management or repair of the Property upon Lender, nor shall it operate to make Lender responsible or liable for any waste committed on the Property by the tenants or any other Person, or for any dangerous or defective condition of the Property, or for any negligence in the management, upkeep, repair or control of the Property resulting in loss or injury or death to any tenant, licensee, employee or stranger. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as constituting Lender a "mortgagee in possession." Section 15.9 Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury. EACH BORROWER HEREBY AGREES NOT TO ELECT A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY ISSUE TRIABLE OF RIGHT BY JURY, AND WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY FULLY TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SUCH RIGHT SHALL NOW OR HEREAFTER EXIST WITH REGARD TO THIS SECURITY INSTRUMENT OR THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, OR ANY CLAIM, COUNTERCLAIM OR OTHER ACTION ARISING IN CONNECTION THEREWITH. THIS WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IS GIVEN KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY BY EACH BORROWER, AND IS INTENDED TO ENCOMPASS INDIVIDUALLY EACH INSTANCE AND EACH ISSUE AS 26
TO WHICH THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY WOULD OTHERWISE ACCRUE. LENDER IS EACH HEREBY AUTHORIZED TO FILE A COPY OF THIS PARAGRAPH IN ANY PROCEEDING AS CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE OF THIS WAIVER. Section 15.10 Secondary Market. Lender may sell, transfer and deliver the Note and assign this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents to one or more investors in the secondary mortgage market ("Investors"). In connection with such sale, Lender may retain or assign responsibility for servicing the Loan, including the Note, this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents, or may delegate some or all of such responsibility and/or obligations to a servicer including, but not limited to, any subservicer or master servicer, on behalf of the Investors. All references to Lender herein shall refer to and include any such servicer to the extent applicable. Section 15.11 Cross-collateralization. Without limitation to any other right or remedy provided to Lender in this Security Instrument or any of the other Loan Documents, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that (i) upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, to the fullest extent permitted by law, Lender shall have the right to pursue all of its rights and remedies in one proceeding, or separately and independently in separate proceedings which Lender, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine from time to time, (ii) Lender is not required to either marshall assets, sell any collateral for the Loan in any inverse order of alienation, or be subjected to any "one action" or "election of remedies" law or rule, (iii) the exercise by Lender of any remedies against any of the collateral for the Loan will not impede Lender from subsequently or simultaneously exercising remedies against other collateral for the Loan; (iv) all Liens and other rights, remedies and privileges provided to Lender in the Loan Documents or otherwise shall remain in full force and effect until Lender has exhausted all of its remedies against the collateral for the Loan and all of the collateral for the Loan has been foreclosed, sold and/or otherwise realized upon in satisfaction of the Loan; and (v) all of the Properties shall remain security for the performance of all of the obligations of each Borrower hereunder, under the Note and under any of the other Loan Documents. Section 15.12 Joint and Several Liability. If more than one Person has executed this Security Instrument as "Borrower," the representations, covenants, warranties and obligations of all such Persons hereunder shall be joint and several. Each Borrower further acknowledges and agrees that it shall be jointly and severally liable for the obligations of all the Other Borrowers under the Loan Documents. ARTICLE 16 - STATE-SPECIFIC PROVISIONS Section 16.1 Principles of Construction. In the event of any inconsistencies between the terms and conditions of this Article 16 and the other terms and conditions of this Security Instrument, the terms and conditions of this Article 16 shall control and be binding. Section 16.2 Mortgagee-in-possession. No action taken by Lender pursuant to this Security Instrument shall be construed so as to constitute Lender a "mortgagee in possession" in the absence of the taking of actual possession of the Property by Lender. In the exercise of the powers herein granted to Lender, no liability shall be asserted or enforced against Lender, all such liability being expressly waived and released by each Borrower. 27
Section 16.3 Property Not a "Reporting Facility." Each Borrower represents and warrants to Lender that neither the Property nor any part thereof has ever been or is now classified as a "reporting facility" within the meaning of Ohio Revised Code Section 3752.01. Neither Borrower shall cause or permit the Property or any part thereof to become so classified. Section 16.4 Mechanics' Lien Law. Lender shall be and is hereby authorized and empowered to do as mortgagee all things provided in the mechanic's lien laws of Ohio, including, without limitation, Section 1311.14 of the Ohio Revised Code, and all amendments and supplements thereto. Section 16.5 Appointment of Receiver. Lender shall be entitled to the appointment of a receiver of Lender's choice for the Property as a matter of right and without notice, which is hereby expressly waived, with power to collect the rents due and to become due, without regard to the value of the Property and regardless of whether Lender may have an adequate remedy at law or in equity. Each Borrower, for itself and its successors and assigns, hereby waives any and all defenses to the application for a receiver as set forth above, and hereby specifically consents to such appointment of a receiver of Lender's choice in any event in ex parte proceedings and without notice. Nothing herein contained is to be construed to deprive Lender of any other right, remedy or privilege it may now have, or may hereafter obtain, to have a receiver appointed. From such rents collected by the receiver or by Lender prior to a foreclosure sale, there shall be deducted the cost of collection thereof, including, without limitation, real estate commissions, if any, for new or extended or renewed leases, if any, receiver's fees, attorneys' fees and expenses to the fullest extent not prohibited by applicable law, and any court costs and other expenses; the remainder shall be disbursed by the receiver or otherwise applied at Lender's discretion against the Debt. Section 16.6 Advances Secured. Each Borrower and Lender intend that this Security Instrument shall secure the unpaid balance of loan advances made by the holder hereof after this Security Instrument is delivered to the County Recorder in the county listed on the cover page of this Security Instrument for record to the fullest extent and with the highest priority contemplated by Section 5301.232 of the Ohio Revised Code. The maximum amount of all loan advances, in the aggregate and exclusive of interest accrued thereon and protective advances made as contemplated by this Section 16.6 and by any other provision of this Security Instrument, which may be outstanding at any time, is $1.00. If and to the extent applicable, each Borrower hereby waives any right it may have under Section 5301.232(c) of the Ohio Revised Code. In addition to the loan advances referred to hereinabove in this Section 16.6, Lender shall have the right, but not the obligation, to make protective advances with respect to the Property for the payment of taxes, assessments, insurance premiums, repairs, maintenance costs, costs and expenses, if any, incurred by reason of all or any part of the Property being classified as a "reporting facility" within the meaning of Ohio Revised Code Section 3752.01, and other costs incurred in the protection of the Property as contemplated by Section 5301.233 of the Ohio Revised Code, and such protective advances, together with interest thereon at the Default Rate (as defined in the Loan Agreement) from the date of each such advance until it is repaid in full, shall be secured by this Security Instrument to the fullest extent and with the highest priority contemplated by said Section 5301.233. 28
Section 16.7 Tax Payor I.D. Lender's federal taxpayer identification number is 61-1324573. Section 16.8 Attorney Fees. As provided in Ohio Revised Code 1301.21, this is a Contract of Indebtedness and each Borrower has committed to pay attorneys' fees. [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE] 29
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THIS SECURITY INSTRUMENT has been executed by each Borrower as of the day and year first above written. THI OF OHIO REAL ESTATE HOLDING COMPANY, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT COLUMBUS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President
ACKNOWLEDGMENT STATE OF NEW YORK ) ) ss: COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On October 30, 2002, before me, a Notary Public in and for said state, personally appeared John E. Bauer, personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their capacity, and that by his/her/their signature on the instrument, the person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument. /s/ KATINA NASH ---------------------------- Notary Public: My commission expires: 6-30-03 [Notary Seal] ACKNOWLEDGMENT STATE OF NEW YORK ) ) ss: COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On October 30, 2002, before me, a Notary Public in and for said state, personally appeared John E. Bauer, personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their capacity, and that by his/her/their signature on the instrument, the person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument. /s/ KATINA NASH ---------------------------- Notary Public: My commission expires: 6-30-03 THIS INSTRUMENT PREPARED BY, RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND [Notary Seal] WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: David W. Forti, Esquire Dechert 4000 Bell Atlantic Tower 1717 Arch Street Philadelphia, PA 19103

EXHIBIT 10.2.6 RECORDING REQUESTED BY AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: David W. Forti, Esquire Dechert 4000 Bell Atlantic Tower 1717 Arch Street Philadelphia PA 19103 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Space Above This Line For Recorder's Use DEED OF TRUST AND SECURITY AGREEMENT by THI OF MARYLAND REAL ESTATE HOLDING CO., LLC and THI OF MARYLAND AT BEL PRE, LLC each a Delaware limited liability company, and each having an address at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103 Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 (collectively, as grantor) to BRIAN LOBUTS, an Individual, having an address at 1025 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Suite 709 Washington, D.C. 20036 (as trustee) for the benefit of VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 (as beneficiary) Property: Bel Pre 2601 Bel Pre Road, Silver Spring, MD NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING CONTAINED HEREIN TO THE CONTRARY, THE MAXIMUM PRINCIPAL AMOUNT SECURED BY THIS SECURITY AGREEMENT IS $5,425,500.00, WHICH REPRESENTS ONE HUNDRED FIFTY PERCENT (150%) OF THE ALLOCATED LOAN AMOUNT FOR THE PROPERTY.
DEED OF TRUST AND SECURITY AGREEMENT THIS DEED OF TRUST AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Security Instrument") is made as of November 1, 2002, by THI OF MARYLAND REAL ESTATE HOLDING CO., LLC (the "Fee Owner") and THI OF MARYLAND AT BEL PRE, LLC (the "Operator"), each a Delaware limited liability company, and each having its principal place of business at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011, collectively as grantor (Fee Owner and Operator are referred to herein individually as, a "Borrower" and collectively as, the "Borrowers")to BRIAN LOBUTS, an individual, having an address at c/o First American Title Insurance Company, 1025 Connecticut Avenue, N.W., Suite 709, Washington, DC 20036 as trustee ("Trustee"), for the benefit of VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207, as beneficiary (together with its successors and assigns, "Lender"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, this Security Instrument is given to secure a loan (the "Loan") in the maximum principal sum of FIFTY FIVE MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($55,000,000.00) or so much thereof as may be advanced pursuant to that certain Loan Agreement dated as of the date hereof among the Borrowers, certain Affiliates of the Borrowers named therein (collectively, the "Other Borrowers") and Lender (as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Loan Agreement") and evidenced by that certain Promissory Note dated the date hereof made by the Borrowers and the Other Borrowers to Lender (such Note, together with all extensions, renewals, replacements, components, restatements or modifications thereof being hereinafter referred to as the "Note"); WHEREAS, each Borrower desires to secure the payment of the Debt (as defined in the Loan Agreement) and the performance of all of its obligations under the Note, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents (as defined below); and WHEREAS, this Security Instrument is given pursuant to the Loan Agreement, and payment, fulfillment, and performance by each Borrower of its obligations thereunder and under the other Loan Documents are secured hereby, and each and every term and provision of the Loan Agreement and the Note, including the rights, remedies, obligations, covenants, conditions, agreements, indemnities, representations and warranties of the parties therein, are hereby incorporated by reference herein as though set forth in full and shall be considered a part of this Security Instrument (the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument, that certain Assignment of Leases, Rents and Contracts of even date herewith made by the Borrowers in favor of Lender (the "Assignment of Leases") and all other documents evidencing or securing the Debt or delivered in connection with the making of the Loan are hereinafter referred to collectively as the "Loan Documents"). NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the making of the Loan by Lender and the covenants, agreements, representations and warranties set forth in this Security Instrument: 1
ARTICLE 1 - GRANTS OF SECURITY Section 1.1. Property Conveyed. Each Borrower does hereby irrevocably grant, bargain, sell, pledge, assign, warrant, transfer and convey to Trustee and its successors and assigns, in trust, with Power of Sale and Right of Entry and Possession, for the benefit of Lender as beneficiary in trust, all of its right, title and interest in the following property, rights, interests and estates now owned, or hereafter acquired by such Borrower (collectively, the "Property"). (a) Land. (i) The real property described in Exhibit A attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "Land") including, without limitation, all As Extracted Collateral (as defined in Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code in the jurisdiction where the Land is located (as the same may be amended, modified or revised from time to time, the "Uniform Commercial Code")), all minerals, oil, gas and other hydrocarbon substances on, in or under the Land and (ii) Operator's leasehold interest created by any and all operating leases to which either Fee Owner or Operator is now or hereafter a party (collectively, the "Operating Lease"), together with all right, title and interest in and to any right pursuant to Section 365(h) of the Bankruptcy Code (as defined below) or any successor to such Section (x) to possession of any statutory term of years derived from or incident to the Operating Lease or (y) to treat the Operating Lease as terminated; (b) Additional Land. All additional lands, estates and development rights hereafter acquired by such Borrower for use in connection with the Land and the development of the Land and all additional lands and estates therein which may, from time to time, by supplemental mortgage or otherwise be expressly made subject to the lien of this Security Instrument; (c) Improvements. The buildings, structures, fixtures, additions, enlargements, extensions, modifications, repairs, replacements and improvements now or hereafter erected or located on the Land (collectively, the "Improvements"); (d) Easements. All easements, rights-of-way or use, rights, strips and gores of land, streets, ways, alleys, passages, sewer rights, water, water courses, water rights and powers, air rights and development rights, and all estates, rights, titles, interests, privileges, liberties, servitudes, tenements, hereditaments and appurtenances of any nature whatsoever, in any way now or hereafter belonging, relating or pertaining to the Land and the Improvements and the reversion and reversions, remainder and remainders, and all land lying in the bed of any street, road or avenue, opened or proposed, in front of or adjoining the Land, to the center line thereof and all the estates, rights, titles, interests, dower and rights of dower, curtesy and rights of curtesy, property, possession, claim and demand whatsoever, both at law and in equity, of such Borrower of, in and to the Land and the Improvements and every part and parcel thereof, with the appurtenances thereto; 2
(e) Equipment. All "equipment," as such term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code, now owned or hereafter acquired by such Borrower, which is used at or in connection with the Improvements or the Land or is located thereon or therein (including, but not limited to, all Software (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), appliances, machinery, equipment, furniture, furnishings, and electronic data-processing and other office equipment now owned or hereafter acquired by such Borrower (including, without limitation, all beds, linens, radios, televisions, carpeting, telephones, cash registers, computers, lamps, glassware, restaurant and kitchen equipment, all medical, dental, rehabilitation, therapeutic and paramedic equipment and supplies), and any and all additions, substitutions and replacements of any of the foregoing), together with all attachments, components, parts, equipment, accessions and accessories installed thereon or affixed thereto (collectively, the "Equipment"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Equipment shall not include any property belonging to tenants under leases except to the extent that any Borrower shall have any right or interest therein; (f) Fixtures. All Equipment and Goods (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code) now owned, or the ownership of which is hereafter acquired, by such Borrower which is so related to the Land and Improvements forming part of the Property that it is deemed fixtures or real property under the law of the particular state in which the Land is located, including, without limitation, all building or construction materials intended for construction, reconstruction, alteration or repair of or installation on the Land and Improvements, construction equipment, appliances, machinery, plant equipment, fittings, apparatuses, fixtures and other items now or hereafter attached to, installed in or used in connection with (temporarily or permanently) any of the Improvements or the Land, including, but not limited to, engines, devices for the operation of pumps, pipes, plumbing, cleaning, call and sprinkler systems, fire extinguishing apparatuses and equipment, heating, ventilating, plumbing, laundry, incinerating, electrical, air conditioning and air cooling equipment and systems, gas and electric machinery, appurtenances and equipment, pollution control equipment, security systems, disposals, dishwashers, refrigerators and ranges, recreational equipment and facilities of all kinds, and water, gas, electrical, storm and sanitary sewer facilities, utility lines and equipment (whether owned individually or jointly with others, and, if owned jointly, to the extent of such Borrower's interest therein) and all other utilities whether or not situated in easements, all water tanks, water supply, water power sites, fuel stations, fuel tanks, fuel supply, and all other structures, together with all accessions, appurtenances, additions, replacements, betterments and substitutions for any of the foregoing and the proceeds thereof (collectively, the "Fixtures"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, "Fixtures" shall not include any property which tenants are entitled to remove pursuant to leases except to the extent that any Borrower shall have any right or interest therein; (g) Personal Property. All "accounts" (as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), Chattel Paper (including Electronic Chattel Paper and Tangible Chattel Paper), Commercial Tort Claims, Commingled Goods, Deposit 3
Accounts, Documents, General Intangibles, Goods, Instruments, Inventory, Investment Property, Letter of Credit Rights, Payment Intangibles, Supporting Obligations (as such terms are defined in the Uniform Commercial Code), furniture, furnishings, objects of art, machinery, goods, tools, supplies, appliances, contract rights, accounts receivable, franchises, licenses, certificates and permits (including any Regulatory Permits), and all other personal property of any kind or character whatsoever other than Fixtures, which are now or hereafter owned by such Borrower and which are located within or about or otherwise relate or pertain to the Land and the Improvements, together with all accessories, accessions, replacements and substitutions thereto or therefor and the proceeds thereof (collectively, together with the Equipment and the Proceeds, the "Personal Property"), and the right, title and interest of such Borrower in and to any of the Personal Property which may be subject to any security interests superior in lien to the lien of this Security Instrument and all proceeds and products of the above; (h) Leases and Rents. All leases and other agreements affecting the use, enjoyment or occupancy of the Land and the Improvements heretofore or hereafter entered into (including, without limitation, the Operating Lease, all patient admissions and resident care agreements, all lettings, subleases, licenses, concessions, tenancies and other occupancy agreements covering or encumbering all or any portion of the Property), whether before or after the filing by or against such Borrower of any petition for relief under 11 U.S.C.ss.101 et seq., as the same may be amended from time to time (the "Bankruptcy Code") (collectively, the "Leases") and all right, title and interest of such Borrower, its successors and assigns therein and thereunder, including, without limitation, cash or securities deposited thereunder to secure the performance by the lessees of their obligations thereunder and all rents, additional rents, revenues (including, without limitation, (i) rights to payment earned under the Leases for space in the Improvements for the operation of ongoing businesses, such as restaurants, news stands, barber shops, beauty shops and pharmacies and (ii) all other income, consideration, profits and benefits of any nature arising from the ownership, possession, use or operation of the Property, including, without limitation Patient Revenues and Self-Pay Receivables), issues and profits (including all oil and gas or other mineral royalties and bonuses) from the Land and the Improvements whether paid or accruing before or after the filing by or against such Borrower of any petition for relief under the Bankruptcy Code (collectively, the "Rents") and all proceeds from the sale or other disposition of the Leases and the right to receive and apply the Rents to the payment of the Debt; (i) Condemnation Awards. All awards or payments, including interest thereon, which may heretofore and hereafter be made with respect to the Property, whether from the exercise of the right of eminent domain (including but not limited to any transfer made in lieu of or in anticipation of the exercise of the right), or for a change of grade, or for any other injury to or decrease in the value of the Property; 4
(j) Insurance Proceeds. All proceeds in respect of the Property under any insurance policies covering the Property, including, without limitation, the right to receive and apply the proceeds of any insurance, judgments, or settlements made in lieu thereof, for damage to the Property; (k) Tax Certiorari. All refunds, rebates or credits in connection with reduction in real estate taxes and assessments charged against the Property as a result of tax certiorari or any applications or proceedings for reduction; (l) Rights. The right, in the name and on behalf of either Borrower, to appear in and defend any action or proceeding brought with respect to the Property and to commence any action or proceeding to protect the interest of Lender in the Property; (m) Agreements. All agreements, contracts, certificates, instruments, franchises, permits, licenses, plans, specifications and other documents, now or hereafter entered into, and all rights therein and thereto, respecting or pertaining to the use, occupation, construction, management or operation of the Land and any part thereof and any Improvements or respecting any business or activity conducted on the Land and any part thereof and all right, title and interest of such Borrower therein and thereunder, including, without limitation, the right, upon the happening of any default hereunder, to receive and collect any sums payable to such Borrower thereunder; (n) Trademarks. All tradenames, trademarks, servicemarks, logos, copyrights, goodwill, books and records and all other general intangibles relating to or used in connection with the operation of the Property; (o) Proceeds. All proceeds (including, without limitation, all "proceeds" as defined in the Uniform Commercial Code) of any of the foregoing, including, without limitation, proceeds of insurance and condemnation awards, whether cash, liquidation or other claims or otherwise (collectively, the "Proceeds"); and (p) Other Rights. Any and all other rights of such Borrower in and to the items set forth in Subsections (a) through (o) above. AND without limiting any of the other provisions of this Security Instrument, to the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower expressly grants to Trustee, as secured party, a security interest in the portion of the Property which is or may be subject to the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code which are applicable to secured transactions; it being understood and agreed that the Improvements and Fixtures are part and parcel of the Land (the Land, the Improvements and the Fixtures collectively referred to as the "Real Property") appropriated to the use thereof and, whether affixed or annexed to the Real Property or not, shall for the purposes of this Security Instrument be deemed conclusively to be real estate and conveyed hereby. 5
Section 1.2. Assignment of Rents. Each Borrower hereby absolutely and unconditionally assigns to Lender and Trustee all of its right, title and interest in and to all current and future Leases and Rents; it being intended by each Borrower that this assignment constitutes a present, absolute assignment and not an assignment for additional security only. Nevertheless, subject to the terms of the Loan Agreement, Collection Account Agreement, Cash Management Agreement, the Assignment of Leases and Section 7.1(h) of this Security Instrument, Lender grants to the Borrowers a revocable license to collect, receive, use and enjoy the Rents. The Borrowers shall hold the Rents, or a portion thereof sufficient to discharge all current sums due on the Debt, for use in the payment of such sums. Section 1.3. Security Agreement. This Security Instrument is both a real property deed of trust and a "security agreement" within the meaning of the Uniform Commercial Code. The Property includes both real and personal property and all other rights and interests, whether tangible or intangible in nature, of each Borrower in the Property. By executing and delivering this Security Instrument, each Borrower hereby grants to Lender, as security for the Obligations (hereinafter defined), a security interest in the Fixtures, the Equipment, the Personal Property and other property constituting the Property to the fullest extent that security interests in such property may be granted under and subject to the Uniform Commercial Code (said portion of the Property so subject to the Uniform Commercial Code being called the "UCC Collateral"). If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, Lender, in addition to any other rights and remedies which it may have, shall have and may exercise immediately and without demand, any and all rights and remedies granted to a secured party upon default under the Uniform Commercial Code, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the right to take possession of the UCC Collateral or any part thereof, and to take such other measures as Lender may deem necessary for the care, protection and preservation of the UCC Collateral. Upon request or demand of Lender after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, each Borrower shall, at its expense, assemble the UCC Collateral and make it available to Lender at a convenient place (at the Land if tangible property) reasonably acceptable to Lender. Each Borrower shall pay to Lender on demand any and all expenses, including reasonable legal expenses and attorneys' fees, incurred or paid by Lender in protecting its interest in the UCC Collateral and in enforcing its rights hereunder with respect to the UCC Collateral after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default. Any notice of sale, disposition or other intended action by Lender with respect to the UCC Collateral sent to either Borrower in accordance with the provisions hereof at least ten (10) business days prior to such action, shall, except as otherwise provided by applicable law, constitute reasonable notice to such Borrower. The proceeds of any disposition of the UCC Collateral, or any part thereof, may, except as otherwise required by applicable law, be applied by Lender to the payment of the Debt in such priority and proportions as Lender in its discretion shall deem proper. The principal place of business of each Borrower (Debtor) is as set forth on page one hereof and the address of Lender (Secured Party) is as set forth on page one hereof. Each Borrower's location, for purposes of Section 9-307 of the Uniform Commercial Code, is such Borrower's state of formation/incorporation/organization as set forth on page one hereof ("Borrower's Jurisdiction"). Section 1.4. Fixture Filing. Certain of the Property is or will become "fixtures" (as that term is defined in the Uniform Commercial Code) on the Land, described or referred to in this Security Instrument, and this Security Instrument, upon being filed for record in the real estate records of the city or county wherein such Land is situated, shall operate also as a 6
financing statement filed as a fixture filing in accordance with the applicable provisions of said Uniform Commercial Code upon such of the Property that is or may become fixtures. Alternatively, and/or in addition to the foregoing, Lender may file a separate financing statement as a fixture filing to evidence the lien granted hereby. Section 1.5. Pledges of Monies Held. Each Borrower hereby pledges to Lender any and all monies now or hereafter held by Lender or on behalf of Lender in connection with the Loan, including, without limitation, any sums deposited in the Accounts (as defined in the Cash Management Agreement) and Net Proceeds, as additional security for the Obligations until expended or applied as provided in this Security Instrument. CONDITIONS TO GRANT TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the above granted and described Property, including but not limited to, Operator's leasehold interest in the Property unto and to the use and benefit of Trustee and its successors and assigns, forever; IN TRUST, WITH POWER OF SALE AND RIGHT OF ENTRY AND POSSESSION, to secure payment to Lender of the Obligations at the time and in the manner provided for its payment in the Note and in this Security Instrument; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, these presents are upon the express condition that, if the Borrowers and the Other Borrowers shall well and truly pay to Lender the Debt at the time and in the manner provided in the Note, the Loan Agreement and this Security Instrument, shall well and truly perform the Other Obligations as set forth in this Security Instrument and shall well and truly abide by and comply with each and every covenant and condition set forth herein and in the Note, the Loan Agreement and the other Loan Documents, these presents and the estate hereby granted shall cease, terminate and be void; provided, however, that each Borrower's obligation to indemnify and hold harmless Lender pursuant to the provisions hereof shall survive any such payment or release. ARTICLE 2 - DEBT AND OBLIGATIONS SECURED Section 2.1. Debt. This Security Instrument and the grants, assignments and transfers made in Article 1 are given for the purpose of securing the Debt which by its definition (as set forth in the Loan Agreement) includes, but is not limited to, the obligations of each Borrower and the Other Borrowers to pay to Lender the principal and interest owing pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Note. Section 2.2. Other Obligations. This Security Instrument and the grants, assignments and transfers made in Article 1 are also given for the purpose of securing the following (the "Other Obligations"): (a) the performance of all other obligations of each Borrower contained herein; (b) the performance of each obligation of each Borrower and the Other Borrowers contained in the Loan Agreement and any other Loan Document; and 7
(c) the performance of each obligation of each Borrower and the Other Borrowers contained in any renewal, extension, amendment, modification, consolidation, change of, or substitution or replacement for, all or any part of the Note, the Loan Agreement or any other Loan Document. Section 2.3. Debt and Other Obligations. Each Borrower's obligations for the payment of the Debt and the performance of the Other Obligations shall be referred to collectively herein as the "Obligations." ARTICLE 3 - BORROWER COVENANTS Each Borrower covenants and agrees that: Section 3.1. Payment of Debt. Borrower will pay the Debt at the time and in the manner provided in the Loan Agreement, the Note and the Loan Documents. Section 3.2. Incorporation by Reference. All the covenants, conditions and agreements contained in (a) the Loan Agreement, (b) the Note and (c) all and any of the other Loan Documents, are hereby made a part of this Security Instrument to the same extent and with the same force as if fully set forth herein. Section 3.3. Insurance. Borrower shall obtain and maintain, or cause to be maintained, in full force and effect at all times insurance with respect to Borrower and the Property as required pursuant to the Loan Agreement. Section 3.4. Maintenance of Property. Borrower shall cause the Property to be maintained in a good and safe condition and repair. The Improvements, the Fixtures, the Equipment and the Personal Property shall not be removed, demolished or materially altered (except for normal replacement of the Fixtures, the Equipment or the Personal Property, tenant finish and refurbishment of the Improvements) without the reasonable consent of Lender, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Borrower shall promptly repair, replace or rebuild any part of the Property which may be destroyed by any Casualty, or become damaged, worn or dilapidated or which may be affected by any Condemnation, and shall complete and pay for any structure at any time in the process of construction or repair on the Land. Section 3.5. Waste. Borrower shall not commit or suffer any material waste of the Property or make any change in the use of the Property which will in any way materially increase the risk of fire or other hazard arising out of the operation of the Property, or take any action that might invalidate or allow the cancellation of any Policy, or do or permit to be done thereon anything that may in any way materially impair the value of the Property or the security of this Security Instrument. Borrower will not, without the prior written consent of Lender, permit any drilling or exploration for or extraction, removal, or production of any minerals from the surface or the subsurface of the Land, regardless of the depth thereof or the method of mining or extraction thereof. Section 3.6. Payment for Labor and Materials. 8
(a) Borrower will promptly pay when due all bills and costs for labor, materials, and specifically fabricated materials ("Labor and Material Costs") incurred in connection with the Property and never permit to exist beyond the due date thereof in respect of the Property or any part thereof any lien or security interest, even though inferior to the liens and the security interests hereof, and in any event never permit to be created or exist in respect of the Property or any part thereof any other or additional lien or security interest other than the liens or security interests hereof except for the Permitted Encumbrances. (b) After prior written notice to Lender, Borrower, at its own expense, may contest by appropriate legal proceeding, promptly initiated and conducted in good faith and with due diligence, the amount or validity or application in whole or in part of any of the Labor and Material Costs, provided that (i) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument or any of the other Loan Documents, (ii) Borrower is permitted to do so under the provisions of any other mortgage, deed of trust or deed to secure debt affecting the Property, (iii) such proceeding shall suspend the collection of the Labor and Material Costs from Borrower and from the Property or Borrower shall have paid all of the Labor and Material Costs under protest, (iv) such proceeding shall be permitted under and be conducted in accordance with the provisions of any other instrument to which Borrower is subject and shall not constitute a default thereunder, (v) neither the Property nor any part thereof or interest therein will be in danger of being sold, forfeited, terminated, canceled or lost, and (vi) Borrower shall have furnished the security as may be required in the proceeding, or as may be reasonably requested by Lender to insure the payment of any contested Labor and Material Costs, together with all interest and penalties thereon. Section 3.7. Performance of Other Agreements. Borrower shall observe and perform each and every term, covenant and provision to be observed or performed by Borrower pursuant to the Loan Agreement, any other Loan Document and any other agreement or recorded instrument affecting or pertaining to the Property and any amendments, modifications or changes thereto. Section 3.8. Change of Name, Identity, Structure or Address. Borrower shall not change Borrower's name, identity (including its trade name or names), principal place of business, organization (from that on page one hereof), Borrower's Jurisdiction, or, if not an individual, Borrower's corporate, partnership or other structure without notifying Lender of such change in writing at least thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of such change and, in the case of a change in Borrower's structure or Borrower's Jurisdiction, without first obtaining the prior written consent of Lender. Borrower shall execute and deliver to Lender, prior to or contemporaneously with the effective date of any such change, any financing statement or financing statement change required by Lender to establish or maintain the validity, perfection and priority of the security interest granted herein. At the request of Lender, Borrower shall execute a certificate in form satisfactory to Lender listing the trade names under which Borrower intends to operate the Property, and representing and warranting that Borrower does business under no other trade name with respect to the Property. 9
ARTICLE 4 - OBLIGATIONS AND RELIANCES Section 4.1. Relationship of Borrower and Lender. The relationship between any Borrower and Lender is solely that of debtor and creditor, and Lender has no fiduciary or other special relationship with any Borrower, and no term or condition of any of the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents shall be construed so as to deem the relationship between any Borrower and Lender to be other than that of debtor and creditor. Section 4.2. No Reliance on Lender. The general partners, members, principals and (if any Borrower is a trust) beneficial owners of each Borrower are experienced in the ownership and operation of properties similar to the Property, and each Borrower and Lender are relying solely upon such expertise and business plan in connection with the ownership and operation of the Property. No Borrower is relying on Lender's expertise, business acumen or advice in connection with the Property. Section 4.3. No Lender Obligations. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsections 1.1(h) and (m) or Section 1.2 hereof, Lender is not undertaking the performance of (i) any obligations under the Leases; or (ii) any obligations with respect to such agreements, contracts, certificates, instruments, franchises, permits, trademarks, licenses and other documents. (b) By accepting or approving anything required to be observed, performed or fulfilled or to be given to Lender pursuant to this Security Instrument, the Loan Agreement, the Note or the other Loan Documents, including, without limitation, any officer's certificate, balance sheet, statement of profit and loss or other financial statement, survey, appraisal, or insurance policy, Lender shall not be deemed to have warranted, consented to, or affirmed the sufficiency, the legality or effectiveness of same, and such acceptance or approval thereof shall not constitute any warranty or affirmation with respect thereto by Lender. Section 4.4. Reliance. Each Borrower recognizes and acknowledges that in accepting the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents, Lender is expressly and primarily relying on the truth and accuracy of the warranties and representations set forth in Article III of the Loan Agreement without any obligation to investigate the Property and notwithstanding any investigation of the Property by Lender; that such reliance existed on the part of Lender prior to the date hereof, that the warranties and representations are a material inducement to Lender in making the Loan; and that Lender would not be willing to make the Loan and accept this Security Instrument in the absence of the warranties and representations as set forth in Article III of the Loan Agreement. ARTICLE 5 - FURTHER ASSURANCES Section 5.1. Recording of Security Instrument, etc. Each Borrower forthwith upon the execution and delivery of this Security Instrument and thereafter, from time to time, will cause this Security Instrument and any of the other Loan Documents creating a lien or security interest or evidencing the lien hereof upon the Property and each instrument of further assurance to be filed, registered or recorded in such manner and in such places as may be 10
required by Lender for any present or future law in order to publish notice of and fully to protect and perfect the lien or security interest hereof upon, and the interest of Lender in, the Property. Each Borrower will pay all taxes, filing, registration or recording fees, and all expenses incident to the preparation, execution, acknowledgment and/or recording of the Note, this Security Instrument, the other Loan Documents, any financing statements evidencing Lender's lien in the Property, any note, deed of trust or mortgage supplemental hereto, any security instrument with respect to the Property and any instrument of further assurance, and any modification, continuation, or amendment of the foregoing documents, and all federal, state, county and municipal taxes, duties, imposts, assessments and charges arising out of or in connection with the execution and delivery of this Security Instrument, any deed of trust or mortgage supplemental hereto, any security instrument with respect to the Property or any instrument of further assurance, and any modification or amendment of the foregoing documents, except where prohibited by law so to do. Section 5.2. Further Acts, etc. Each Borrower will, at its own cost, and without expense to Lender, do, execute, acknowledge and deliver all and every such further acts, deeds, conveyances, deeds of trust, assignments, notices of assignments, transfers and assurances as Lender shall, from time to time, reasonably require, for the better assuring, conveying, assigning, transferring, and confirming unto Lender and Trustee the property and rights hereby deeded, granted, bargained, sold, conveyed, confirmed, pledged, assigned, warranted and transferred or intended now or hereafter so to be, or which any Borrower may be or may hereafter become bound to convey or assign to Trustee or Lender, or for carrying out the intention or facilitating the performance of the terms of this Security Instrument or for filing, registering or recording this Security Instrument (or evidencing the lien created hereby), or for complying with all Legal Requirements. Pursuant to its signature hereunder, and in connection with Lender's filing initial financing statements (and/or fixture filings), amendments, continuations, and terminations in all such jurisdictions and with all such governmental authorities as Lender deems desirable (to evidence the lien granted Lender hereunder), each Borrower hereby confirms that the Lender is a person entitled to file a record, and each Borrower has authorized all such filings, within the meaning of Section 9-509 of the Uniform Commercial Code. Each Borrower grants to Lender an irrevocable power of attorney coupled with an interest for the purpose of exercising and perfecting any and all rights and remedies available to Lender at law and in equity, including without limitation such rights and remedies available to Lender pursuant to this Section 5.2. Section 5.3. Changes in Tax, Debt, Credit and Documentary Stamp Laws. (a) If any law is enacted or adopted or amended after the date of this Security Instrument which deducts the Debt from the value of the Property for the purpose of taxation or which imposes a tax, either directly or indirectly, on the Debt or Lender's interest in the Property, each Borrower will pay the tax, with interest and penalties thereon, if any. If Lender is advised by counsel chosen by it that the payment of tax by such Borrower would be unlawful or taxable to Lender or unenforceable or provide the basis for a defense of usury then Lender shall have the option by written notice of not less than one hundred twenty (120) days to declare the Debt immediately due and payable. (b) Neither Borrower will claim or demand or be entitled to any credit or credits on account of the Debt for any part of the Taxes or Other Charges assessed against the 11
Property, or any part thereof, and no deduction shall otherwise be made or claimed from the assessed value of the Property, or any part thereof, for real estate tax purposes by reason of this Security Instrument or the Debt. If such claim, credit or deduction shall be required by law, Lender shall have the option, by written notice of not less than one hundred twenty (120) days, to declare the Debt immediately due and payable. (c) If at any time the United States of America, any State thereof or any subdivision of any such State shall require revenue or other stamps to be affixed to the Note, this Security Instrument, or any of the other Loan Documents or impose any other tax or charge on the same, each Borrower will pay for the same, with interest and penalties thereon, if any. Section 5.4. Splitting of Deed of Trust. This Security Instrument and the Note shall, at any time until the same shall be fully paid and satisfied, at the sole election of Lender, be split or divided into two or more notes and two or more security instruments, each of which shall cover all or a portion of the Property to be more particularly described therein. To that end, each Borrower, upon written request of Lender, shall execute, acknowledge and deliver, or cause to be executed, acknowledged and delivered by the then owner of the Property, to Lender and/or its designee or designees substitute notes and security instruments in such principal amounts, aggregating not more than the then unpaid principal amount of the Note, and containing terms, provisions and clauses similar to those contained herein and in the Note, and such other documents and instruments as may be reasonably required by Lender. Section 5.5. Replacement Documents. Upon receipt of an affidavit of an officer of Lender as to the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of the Note or any other Loan Document which is not of public record, and, in the case of any such mutilation, upon surrender and cancellation of such Note or other Loan Document, each Borrower will issue, in lieu thereof, a replacement Note or other Loan Document, dated the date of such lost, stolen, destroyed or mutilated Note or other Loan Document in the same principal amount thereof and otherwise of like tenor. ARTICLE 6 - DUE ON SALE/ENCUMBRANCE Section 6.1. Lender Reliance. Each Borrower acknowledges that Lender has examined and relied on the experience of each Borrower and its general partners, members, principals and (if such Borrower is a trust) beneficial owners in owning and operating properties such as the Property in agreeing to make the Loan, and will continue to rely on Borrower's ownership of the Property as a means of maintaining the value of the Property as security for repayment of the Debt and the performance of the Other Obligations. Each Borrower acknowledges that Lender has a valid interest in maintaining the value of the Property so as to ensure that, should Borrower default in the repayment of the Debt or the performance of the Other Obligations, Lender can recover the Debt by a sale of the Property. Section 6.2. No Transfer. Neither Borrower shall permit or suffer any Transfer to occur, unless permitted by the Loan Agreement or unless Lender shall consent thereto in writing. Section 6.3. Transfer Defined. As used in this Article 6 "Transfer" shall mean any voluntary or involuntary sale, conveyance, mortgage, grant, bargain, encumbrance, pledge, 12
assignment, or transfer of: (a) all or any part of the Property or any estate or interest therein including, but not be limited to, (i) an installment sales agreement wherein any Borrower agrees to sell the Property or any part thereof for a price to be paid in installments, (ii) an agreement by any Borrower leasing all or a substantial part of the Property for other than actual occupancy by a space tenant thereunder and its affiliates or (iii) a sale, assignment or other transfer of, or the grant of a security interest in, any Borrower's right, title and interest in and to any Leases or any Rents; or (b) any ownership interest in (i) any Borrower, (ii) SPE Equity Owner or (iii) any indemnitor or guarantor of any Obligations or (iv) any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other entity owning, directly or indirectly, any interest in any Borrower or any indemnitor or guarantor of any Obligations. Section 6.4. Lender's Rights. Without obligating Lender to grant any consent under Section 6.2 hereof which Lender may grant or withhold in its sole discretion, Lender reserves the right to condition the consent required hereunder upon (a) a modification of the terms hereof and of the Loan Agreement, the Note or the other Loan Documents; (b) an assumption of the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents; (c) payment of all of Lender's expenses incurred in connection with such transfer; (d) receipt of Rating Agency Confirmation; (e) the delivery of a nonconsolidation opinion reflecting the proposed transfer satisfactory in form and substance to Lender; (f) the proposed transferee's continued compliance with the representations and covenants set forth in the Loan Agreement; (g) the delivery of evidence satisfactory to Lender that the single purpose nature and bankruptcy remoteness of each Borrower, its shareholders, partners or members, as the case may be, following such transfers are in accordance with the standards of the Rating Agencies; (h) the proposed transferee's ability to satisfy Lender's then-current underwriting standards; or (i) such other conditions as Lender shall determine in its reasonable discretion to be in the interest of Lender, including, without limitation, the creditworthiness, reputation and qualifications of the transferee with respect to the Loan and the Property. Lender shall not be required to demonstrate any actual impairment of its security or any increased risk of default hereunder in order to declare the Debt immediately due and payable upon a Transfer without Lender's consent. This provision shall apply to every Transfer, other than any Transfer permitted pursuant to the Loan Agreement, regardless of whether voluntary or not, or whether or not Lender has consented to any previous Transfer. ARTICLE 7 - RIGHTS AND REMEDIES UPON DEFAULT Section 7.1. Remedies. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default, each Borrower agrees that Lender or Trustee, or both, may take such action, without notice or demand, as it deems advisable to protect and enforce its rights against such Borrower and in and to the Property, including, but not limited to, the following actions, each of which may be pursued concurrently or otherwise, at such time and in such order as Lender or Trustee may determine, in their sole discretion, without impairing or otherwise affecting the other rights and remedies of Lender or Trustee: (a) declare the entire unpaid Debt to be immediately due and payable; (b) institute proceedings, judicial or otherwise, for the complete foreclosure of this Security Instrument under any applicable provision of law, in which case the 13
Property or any interest therein may be sold for cash or upon credit in one or more parcels or in several interests or portions and in any order or manner; (c) with or without entry, to the extent permitted and pursuant to the procedures provided by applicable law, institute proceedings for the partial foreclosure of this Security Instrument for the portion of the Debt then due and payable, subject to the continuing lien and security interest of this Security Instrument for the balance of the Debt not then due, unimpaired and without loss of priority; (d) sell for cash or upon credit the Property or any part thereof and all estate, claim, demand, right, title and interest of any Borrower therein and rights of redemption thereof, pursuant to power of sale or otherwise, at one or more sales, as an entirety or in parcels, at such time and place, upon such terms and after such notice thereof, all as may be required or permitted by law; and, without limiting the foregoing: (i) In connection with any sale or sales hereunder, Lender or the Trustee shall be entitled to elect to treat any of the Property which consists of a right in action or which is property that can be severed from the Real Property covered hereby or any improvements without causing structural damage thereto as if the same were personal property, and dispose of the same in accordance with applicable law, separate and apart from the sale of Real Property. Where the Property consists of Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment or Fixtures, whether or not such Personal Property or Equipment is located on or within the Real Property, Lender and/or the Trustee shall be entitled to elect to exercise its rights and remedies against any or all of the Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment and Fixtures and the fee and/or leasehold interest therein in such order and manner as is now or hereafter permitted by applicable law; (ii) Lender and/or the Trustee shall be entitled to elect to proceed against any or all of the Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment and Fixtures and the fee and/or leasehold interest therein in any manner permitted under applicable law; and if Lender and/or the Trustee so elects pursuant to applicable law, the power of sale herein granted shall be exercisable with respect to all or any of the Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment and Fixtures and the fee and/or leasehold interest therein covered hereby, as designated by Lender and/or the Trustee and Trustee is hereby authorized and empowered to conduct any such sale of any Real Property, Personal Property, Equipment and Fixtures and the fee and/or leasehold interest therein in accordance with the procedures applicable to Real Property; (iii) Should Lender and/or the Trustee elect to sell any portion of the Property which is Real Property or which is Personal Property, Equipment or Fixtures that the Lender and/or the Trustee has elected under applicable law to sell together with Real Property in accordance with the laws governing a sale of Real Property, Lender and/or the Trustee shall give such notice of Event of Default, if any, and election to sell as may then be required by law. Thereafter, upon the expiration of such time and the giving of such notice of sale as may then 14
be required by law, and without the necessity of any demand on any Borrower, Lender and/or the Trustee at the time and place specified in the notice of sale, shall sell such Real Property or part thereof at public auction to the highest bidder for cash in lawful money of the United States. Lender or the Trustee may from time to time postpone any sale hereunder by public announcement thereof at the time and place noticed therefor; (iv) If the Property consists of several lots, parcels or items of property, Lender or the Trustee shall, subject to applicable law, (A) designate the order in which such lots, parcels or items shall be offered for sale or sold, or (B) elect to sell such lots, parcels or items through a single sale, or through two or more successive sales, or in any other manner Lender or the Trustee designates. Any Person, other than the Trustee, including any Borrower or Lender, may purchase at any sale hereunder. Should Lender or the Trustee desire that more than one sale or other disposition of the Property be conducted, Lender or the Trustee shall, subject to applicable law, cause such sales or dispositions to be conducted simultaneously, or successively, on the same day, or at such different days or times and in such order as Lender or the Trustee may designate, and no such sale shall terminate or otherwise affect the lien of this Security Instrument on any part of the Property not sold until all the Debt has been paid in full. In the event Lender or the Trustee elects to dispose of the Property through more than one sale, except as otherwise provided by applicable law, each Borrower agrees to pay the costs and expenses of each such sale and of any judicial proceedings wherein such sale may be made; (e) institute an action, suit or proceeding in equity for the specific performance of any covenant, condition or agreement contained herein, in the Note, the Loan Agreement or in the other Loan Documents; (f) recover judgment on the Note either before, during or after any proceedings for the enforcement of this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents; (g) apply for the appointment of a receiver, trustee, liquidator or conservator of the Property, without notice and without regard for the adequacy of the security for the Debt and without regard for the solvency of any Borrower, any guarantor, indemnitor with respect to the Loan or of any Person, liable for the payment of the Debt; (h) the license granted to the Borrowers under Section 1.2 hereof shall automatically be revoked and Lender may enter into or upon the Property, either personally or by its agents, nominees or attorneys and dispossess each Borrower and its agents and servants therefrom, without liability for trespass, damages or otherwise and exclude each Borrower and its agents or servants wholly therefrom, and take possession of all books, records and accounts relating thereto and each Borrower agrees to surrender possession of the Property and of such books, records and accounts to Lender upon demand, and thereupon Lender may (i) use, operate, manage, control, insure, maintain, repair, restore and otherwise deal with all and every part of the Property and conduct the 15
business thereat; (ii) complete any construction on the Property in such manner and form as Lender deems advisable; (iii) make alterations, additions, renewals, replacements and improvements to or on the Property; (iv) exercise all rights and powers of any Borrower with respect to the Property, whether in the name of such Borrower or otherwise, including, without limitation, the right to make, cancel, enforce or modify Leases, obtain and evict tenants, and demand, sue for, collect and receive all Rents of the Property and every part thereof; (v) require each Borrower to pay monthly in advance to Lender, or any receiver appointed to collect the Rents, the fair and reasonable rental value for the use and occupation of such part of the Property as may be occupied by such Borrower; (vi) require each Borrower to vacate and surrender possession of the Property to Lender or to such receiver and, in default thereof, such Borrower may be evicted by summary proceedings or otherwise; and (vii) apply the receipts from the Property to the payment of the Debt, in such order, priority and proportions as Lender shall deem appropriate in its sole discretion after deducting therefrom all expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred in connection with the aforesaid operations and all amounts necessary to pay the Taxes, Other Charges, insurance and other expenses in connection with the Property, as well as just and reasonable compensation for the services of Lender, its counsel, agents and employees; (i) exercise any and all rights and remedies granted to a secured party upon default under the Uniform Commercial Code, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing: (i) the right to take possession of the Fixtures, the Equipment and the Personal Property, or any part thereof, and to take such other measures as Lender may deem necessary for the care, protection and preservation of the Fixtures, the Equipment and the Personal Property, and (ii) request each Borrower at its expense to assemble the Fixtures, the Equipment and the Personal Property and make it available to Lender at a convenient place acceptable to Lender. Any notice of sale, disposition or other intended action by Lender with respect to the Fixtures, the Equipment and/or the Personal Property sent to any Borrower in accordance with the provisions hereof at least five (5) days prior to such action, shall constitute commercially reasonable notice to such Borrower; (j) apply any sums then deposited or held in escrow or otherwise by or on behalf of Lender in accordance with the terms of the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument or any other Loan Document to the payment of the following items in any order in its uncontrolled discretion: (i) Taxes and Other Charges; (ii) Insurance Premiums; (iii) Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the Note; (iv) Amortization of the unpaid principal balance of the Note; (v) All other sums payable pursuant to the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents, including without 16
limitation advances made by Lender pursuant to the terms of this Security Instrument; (k) pursue such other remedies as Lender may have under applicable law; (l) apply the undisbursed balance of any Net Proceeds Deficiency deposit, together with interest thereon, to the payment of the Debt in such order, priority and proportions as Lender shall deem to be appropriate in its discretion; or (m) institute proceedings, judicial or otherwise, for the complete foreclosure of this Security Instrument as it relates to Fee Owner's fee interest in the Property without foreclosing on that portion of the Property which constitutes Operator's leasehold interest therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Operator agrees that Lender may, in its sole discretion, terminate any and all operating leases to which either Fee Owner or Operator is now or hereafter may be a party. In the event of a sale, by foreclosure, power of sale or otherwise, of less than all of Property, this Security Instrument shall continue as a lien and security interest on the remaining portion of the Property unimpaired and without loss of priority. Section 7.2. Application of Proceeds. The purchase money, proceeds and avails of any disposition of the Property, and or any part thereof, or any other sums collected by Lender pursuant to the Note, this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents, may be applied by Lender to the payment of the Debt in such priority and proportions as Lender in its discretion shall deem proper, to the extent consistent with law. Section 7.3. Right to Cure Defaults. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Event of Default or if any Borrower fails to make any payment or to do any act as herein provided, Lender may, but without any obligation to do so and without notice to or demand on any Borrower and without releasing any Borrower from any obligation hereunder, make or do the same in such manner and to such extent as Lender may deem necessary to protect the security hereof. Lender is authorized to enter upon the Property for such purposes, or appear in, defend, or bring any action or proceeding to protect its interest in the Property or to foreclose this Security Instrument or collect the Debt, and the cost and expense thereof (including reasonable attorneys' fees to the extent permitted by law), with interest as provided in this Section 7.3, shall constitute a portion of the Debt and shall be due and payable to Lender upon demand. All such costs and expenses incurred by Lender in remedying such Event of Default or such failed payment or act or in appearing in, defending, or bringing any such action or proceeding shall bear interest at the Default Rate, for the period after notice from Lender that such cost or expense was incurred to the date of payment to Lender. All such costs and expenses incurred by Lender together with interest thereon calculated at the Default Rate shall be deemed to constitute a portion of the Debt and be secured by this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents and shall be immediately due and payable upon demand by Lender therefor. Section 7.4. Actions and Proceedings. Lender or Trustee has the right to appear in and defend any action or proceeding brought with respect to the Property and to bring any action 17
or proceeding, in the name and on behalf of any Borrower, which Lender, in its discretion, decides should be brought to protect its interest in the Property. Section 7.5. Recovery of Sums Required To be Paid. Lender shall have the right from time to time to take action to recover any sum or sums which constitute a part of the Debt as the same become due, without regard to whether or not the balance of the Debt shall be due, and without prejudice to the right of Lender or Trustee thereafter to bring an action of foreclosure, or any other action, for a default or defaults by any Borrower existing at the time such earlier action was commenced. Section 7.6. Examination of Books and Records. At reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, Lender, its agents, accountants and attorneys shall have the right to examine the records, books, management and other papers of any Borrower which reflect upon its financial condition, at the Property or at any office regularly maintained by such Borrower where the books and records are located. Lender and its agents shall have the right to make copies and extracts from the foregoing records and other papers. In addition, at reasonable times and upon reasonable notice, Lender, its agents, accountants and attorneys shall have the right to examine and audit the books and records of any Borrower pertaining to the income, expenses and operation of the Property during reasonable business hours at any office of such Borrower where the books and records are located. This Section 7.6 shall apply throughout the term of the Note and without regard to whether an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing. Section 7.7. Other Rights, Etc. (a) The failure of Lender or Trustee to insist upon strict performance of any term hereof shall not be deemed to be a waiver of any term of this Security Instrument. Neither Borrower shall be relieved of its obligations hereunder by reason of (i) the failure of Lender or Trustee to comply with any request of any Borrower or any guarantor or indemnitor with respect to the Loan to take any action to foreclose this Security Instrument or otherwise enforce any of the provisions hereof or of the Note or the other Loan Documents, (ii) the release, regardless of consideration, of the whole or any part of the Property, or of any person liable for the Debt or any portion thereof, or (iii) any agreement or stipulation by Lender extending the time of payment or otherwise modifying or supplementing the terms of the Note, this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents. (b) It is agreed that the risk of loss or damage to the Property is on each Borrower, and Lender shall have no liability whatsoever for decline in value of the Property, for failure to maintain the Policies, or for failure to determine whether insurance in force is adequate as to the amount of risks insured. Possession by Lender shall not be deemed an election of judicial relief, if any such possession is requested or obtained, with respect to any Property or collateral not in Lender's possession. (c) Lender may resort for the payment of the Debt to any other security held by Lender in such order and manner as Lender, in its discretion, may elect. Lender or Trustee may take action to recover the Debt, or any portion thereof, or to enforce any covenant hereof without prejudice to the right of Lender or Trustee thereafter to foreclose this Security Instrument. The rights of Lender or Trustee under this Security Instrument shall be separate, 18
distinct and cumulative and none shall be given effect to the exclusion of the others. No act of Lender or Trustee shall be construed as an election to proceed under any one provision herein to the exclusion of any other provision. Neither Lender nor Trustee shall be limited exclusively to the rights and remedies herein stated but shall be entitled to every right and remedy now or hereafter afforded at law or in equity. Section 7.8. Right to Release Any Portion of the Property. Lender may release any portion of the Property for such consideration as Lender may require without, as to the remainder of the Property, in any way impairing or affecting the lien or priority of this Security Instrument, or improving the position of any subordinate lienholder with respect thereto, except to the extent that the obligations hereunder shall have been reduced by the actual monetary consideration, if any, received by Lender for such release, and may accept by assignment, pledge or otherwise any other property in place thereof as Lender may require without being accountable for so doing to any other lienholder. This Security Instrument shall continue as a lien and security interest in the remaining portion of the Property. Notwithstanding the forgoing, upon full payment of all Debt, at the time and manner provided in the Loan Documents, this conveyance or lien shall be null and void and upon demand therefor following such payment, a release of this Security Instrument shall be promptly provided by Lender to the Borrowers, at the sole cost and expense of the Borrowers. Section 7.9. Violation of Laws. If the Property is not in material compliance with Legal Requirements, Lender may impose additional requirements upon each Borrower in connection herewith including, without limitation, monetary reserves or financial equivalents. Section 7.10. Recourse and Choice of Remedies. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Security Instrument or the Loan Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 11.22 of the Loan Agreement, Lender and other Indemnified Parties (as hereinafter defined) are entitled to enforce the obligations of any Borrower and any guarantor and indemnitor contained in Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement without first resorting to or exhausting any security or collateral and without first having recourse to the Note or any of the Property, through foreclosure, exercise of a power of sale or acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise, and in the event Lender commences a foreclosure action against the Property, or otherwise causes Trustee to exercise the power of sale pursuant to this Security Instrument, Lender is entitled to pursue a deficiency judgment with respect to such obligations against any Borrower and any guarantor or indemnitor with respect to the Loan. The provisions of Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement are exceptions to any non-recourse or exculpation provisions in the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents, and any Borrower and any guarantor or indemnitor with respect to the Loan are fully and personally liable for the obligations pursuant to Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement. The liability of any Borrower and any guarantor or indemnitor with respect to the Loan pursuant to Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement is not limited to the original principal amount of the Note. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall inhibit or prevent Lender or Trustee from foreclosing or exercising a power of sale pursuant to this Security Instrument or exercising any other rights and remedies pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents, whether simultaneously with foreclosure proceedings or in any other sequence. A separate action or actions may be brought and prosecuted against 19
any Borrower pursuant to Sections 9.2 and 9.3 herein and Section 9.2 of the Loan Agreement, whether or not action is brought against any other Person or whether or not any other Person is joined in the action or actions. In addition, Lender shall have the right but not the obligation to join and participate in, as a party if it so elects, any administrative or judicial proceedings or actions initiated in connection with any matter addressed in the Environmental Indemnity. Section 7.11. Right of Entry. Upon reasonable notice to the Borrowers, Lender and its agents shall have the right to enter and inspect the Property at all reasonable times. ARTICLE 8 INTENTIONALLY OMITTED ARTICLE 9 - INDEMNIFICATION Section 9.1. General Indemnification. Each Borrower shall, at its sole cost and expense, protect, defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless the Indemnified Parties from and against any and all claims, suits, liabilities (including, without limitation, strict liabilities), actions, proceedings, obligations, debts, damages, losses, costs, expenses, diminutions in value, fines, penalties, charges, fees, expenses, judgments, awards, amounts paid in settlement, punitive damages, foreseeable and unforeseeable consequential damages, of whatever kind or nature (including but not limited to reasonable attorneys' fees and other costs of defense) (collectively, the "Losses") imposed upon or incurred by or asserted against any Indemnified Parties and directly or indirectly arising out of or in any way relating to any one or more of the following: (a) ownership of this Security Instrument, the Property or any interest therein or receipt of any Rents; (b) any amendment to, or restructuring of, the Debt, and the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument, or any other Loan Documents; (c) any and all lawful action that may be taken by Lender in connection with the enforcement of the provisions of this Security Instrument or the Loan Agreement or the Note or any of the other Loan Documents, whether or not suit is filed in connection with same, or in connection with any Borrower, any guarantor or indemnitor and/or any partner, joint venturer or shareholder thereof becoming a party to a voluntary or involuntary federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding; (d) any accident, injury to or death of persons or loss of or damage to property occurring in, on or about the Property or any part thereof or on the adjoining sidewalks, curbs, adjacent property or adjacent parking areas, streets or ways; (e) any use, nonuse or condition in, on or about the Property or any part thereof or on the adjoining sidewalks, curbs, adjacent property or adjacent parking areas, streets or ways; (f) any failure on the part of any Borrower to perform or be in compliance with any of the terms of this Security Instrument; (g) performance of any labor or services or the furnishing of any materials or other property in respect of the Property or any part thereof; (h) the failure of any person to file timely with the Internal Revenue Service an accurate Form 1099-B, Statement for Recipients of Proceeds from Real Estate, Broker and Barter Exchange Transactions, which may be required in connection with this Security Instrument, or to supply a copy thereof in a timely fashion to the recipient of the proceeds of the transaction in connection with which this Security Instrument is made; (i) any failure of the Property to be in compliance with any Legal Requirements; (j) the enforcement by any Indemnified Party of the provisions of this Article 9; (k) any and all claims and demands whatsoever which may be asserted against Lender by reason of any alleged obligations or undertakings on its part to perform or discharge any of the terms, covenants, or agreements contained in any Lease; (1) the payment of any commission, charge or brokerage fee to anyone claiming through any Borrower which may be 20
payable in connection with the funding of the Loan; or (m) any misrepresentation made by any Borrower in this Security Instrument or any other Loan Document. Any amounts payable to Lender by reason of the application of this Section 9.1 shall become immediately due and payable and shall bear interest at the Default Rate from the date loss or damage is sustained by Lender until paid. For purposes of this Article 9, the term "Indemnified Parties" means Lender and any Person who is or will have been involved in the origination of the Loan, any Person who is or will have been involved in the servicing of the Loan secured hereby, any Person in whose name the encumbrance created by this Security Instrument is or will have been recorded, persons and entities who may hold or acquire or will have held a full or partial interest in the Loan secured hereby (including, but not limited to, investors or prospective investors in the Securities, as well as custodians, trustees and other fiduciaries who hold or have held a full or partial interest in the Loan secured hereby for the benefit of third parties) as well as the respective directors, officers, shareholders, partners, employees, agents, servants, representatives, contractors, subcontractors, affiliates, subsidiaries, participants, successors and assigns of any and all of the foregoing (including but not limited to any other Person who holds or acquires or will have held a participation or other full or partial interest in the Loan, whether during the term of the Loan or as a part of or following a foreclosure of the Loan and including, but not limited to, any successors by merger, consolidation or acquisition of all or a substantial portion of Lender's assets and business). Section 9.2. Mortgage and/or Intangible Tax. Each Borrower shall, at its sole cost and expense, protect, defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless the Indemnified Parties from and against any and all Losses imposed upon or incurred by or asserted against any Indemnified Parties and directly or indirectly arising out of or in any way relating to any tax on the making and/or recording of this Security Instrument, the Note or any of the other Loan Documents, but excluding any income, franchise or other similar taxes. Section 9.3. ERISA Indemnification. Each Borrower shall, at its sole cost and expense, protect, defend, indemnify, release and hold harmless the Indemnified Parties from and against any and all Losses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in the investigation, defense, and settlement of Losses incurred in correcting any prohibited transaction or in the sale of a prohibited loan, and in obtaining any individual prohibited transaction exemption under ERISA that may be required, in Lender's sole discretion) that Lender may incur, directly or indirectly, as a result of a default under Sections 3.1.8 or 4.2.11 of the Loan Agreement. Section 9.4. Intentionally Omitted. Section 9.5. Duty to Defend; Attorneys' Fees and Other Fees and Expenses. Upon written request by any Indemnified Party, each Borrower shall defend such Indemnified Party (if requested by any Indemnified Party, in the name of the Indemnified Party) by attorneys and other professionals approved by the Indemnified Parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the defendants in any such claim or proceeding include any Borrower and any Indemnified Party and such Borrower and Indemnified Party shall have reasonably concluded that there are any legal defenses available to it and/or other Indemnified Parties that are different from or additional to those available to such Borrower, such Indemnified Party shall have the right to select separate counsel to assert such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on 21
behalf of such Indemnified Party, provided that no compromise or settlement shall be entered without such Borrower's consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Upon demand, such Borrower shall pay or, in the sole and absolute discretion of the Indemnified Parties, reimburse, the Indemnified Parties for the payment of reasonable fees and disbursements of attorneys, engineers, environmental consultants, laboratories and other professionals in connection therewith. ARTICLE 10 - WAIVERS Section 10.1. Waiver of Counterclaim. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower hereby waives the right to assert a counterclaim, other than a mandatory or compulsory counterclaim, in any action or proceeding brought against it by Lender arising out of or in any way connected with this Security Instrument, the Loan Agreement, the Note, any of the other Loan Documents, or the Obligations. Section 10.2. Marshalling and Other Matters. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower, for itself and its successors and assigns, hereby waives the benefit of all appraisement, valuation, stay, extension, reinstatement and redemption laws now or hereafter in force and all rights of marshalling in the event of any sale hereunder of the Property or any part thereof or any interest therein. Further, each Borrower hereby expressly waives any and all rights of redemption from sale under any order or decree of foreclosure of this Security Instrument on behalf of such Borrower, and on behalf of each and every person acquiring any interest in or title to the Property subsequent to the date of this Security Instrument and on behalf of all persons to the extent permitted by applicable law. Section 10.3. Waiver of Notice. To the extent permitted by applicable law, neither Borrower shall be entitled to any notices of any nature whatsoever from Lender or Trustee except with respect to matters for which this Security Instrument specifically and expressly provides for the giving of notice by Lender or Trustee to such Borrower and except with respect to matters for which Lender or Trustee is required by applicable law to give notice, and each Borrower hereby expressly waives the right to receive any notice from Lender or Trustee with respect to any matter for which this Security Instrument does not specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Lender or Trustee to such Borrower. Section 10.4. Waiver of Statute of Limitations. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower hereby expressly waives and releases to the fullest extent permitted by law, the pleading of any statute of limitations as a defense to payment of the Debt or performance of its Other Obligations. Section 10.5. Survival. The indemnifications made pursuant to Sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 herein and the representations and warranties, covenants, and other obligations arising under the Environmental Indemnity, shall continue indefinitely in full force and effect and shall survive and shall in no way be impaired by: any satisfaction, release or other termination of this Security Instrument, any assignment or other transfer of all or any portion of this Security Instrument or Lender's interest in the Property (but, in such case, shall benefit both Indemnified Parties and any assignee or transferee), any exercise of Lender's rights and remedies pursuant hereto including but not limited to foreclosure or acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure, any 22
exercise of any rights and remedies pursuant to the Loan Agreement, the Note or any of the other Loan Documents, any transfer of all or any portion of the Property (whether by any Borrower or by Lender following foreclosure or acceptance of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or at any other time), any amendment to this Security Instrument, the Loan Agreement, the Note or the other Loan Documents, and any act or omission that might otherwise be construed as a release or discharge of any Borrower from the obligations pursuant hereto. ARTICLE 11 - EXCULPATION The provisions of Section 11.22 of the Loan Agreement are hereby incorporated by reference into this Security Instrument to the same extent and with the same force as if fully set forth herein. ARTICLE 12 - NOTICES All notices or other written communications hereunder shall be delivered in accordance with Section 11.6 of the Loan Agreement. ARTICLE 13 - APPLICABLE LAW Section 13.1. Governing Law. This Security Instrument shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State in which the Land is located. Section 13.2. Usury Laws. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, (a) all agreements and communications between any Borrower and Lender are hereby and shall automatically be limited so that, after taking into account all amounts deemed interest, the interest contracted for, charged or received by Lender shall never exceed the maximum lawful rate or amount, (b) in calculating whether any interest exceeds the lawful maximum, all such interest shall be amortized, prorated, allocated and spread over the full amount and term of all principal indebtedness of the Borrowers to Lender, and (c) if through any contingency or event, Lender receives or is deemed to receive interest in excess of the lawful maximum, any such excess shall be deemed to have been applied toward payment of the principal of any and all then outstanding indebtedness of the Borrowers to Lender, or if there is no such indebtedness, shall immediately be returned to the Borrowers. Section 13.3. Provisions Subject to Applicable Law. All rights, powers and remedies provided in this Security Instrument may be exercised only to the extent that the exercise thereof does not violate any applicable provisions of law and are intended to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Security Instrument invalid, unenforceable or not entitled to be recorded, registered or filed under the provisions of any applicable law. ARTICLE 14 - DEFINITIONS All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Loan Agreement. Unless the context clearly indicates a contrary intent or unless otherwise 23
specifically provided herein, words used in this Security Instrument may be used interchangeably in singular or plural form and the word "Borrower" shall mean "each Borrower and any subsequent owner or owners of the Property or any part thereof or any interest therein," the word "Lender" shall mean "Lender and any subsequent holder of the Note," the word "Note" shall mean "the Note and any other evidence of indebtedness secured by this Security Instrument," the word "Property" shall include any portion of the Property and any interest therein, and the phrases "attorneys' fees", "legal fees" and "counsel fees" shall include any and all attorneys', paralegal and law clerk fees and disbursements, including, but not limited to, fees and disbursements at the pre-trial, trial and appellate levels incurred or paid by Lender in protecting its interest in the Property, the Leases and the Rents and enforcing its rights hereunder. ARTICLE 15 - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS Section 15.1. No Oral Change. This Security Instrument, and any provisions hereof, may not be modified, amended, waived, extended, changed, discharged or terminated orally or by any act or failure to act on the part of any Borrower or Lender, but only by an agreement in writing signed by the party against whom enforcement of any modification, amendment, waiver, extension, change, discharge or termination is sought. Section 15.2. Successors and Assigns. This Security Instrument shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of each Borrower and Lender and their respective successors and assigns forever. Section 15.3. Inapplicable Provisions. If any term, covenant or condition of the Loan Agreement, the Note or this Security Instrument is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the Loan Agreement, the Note and this Security Instrument shall be construed without such provision. Section 15.4. Headings, etc. The headings and captions of various Sections of this Security Instrument are for convenience of reference only and are not to be construed as defining or limiting, in any way, the scope or intent of the provisions hereof. Section 15.5. Intentionally Omitted. Section 15.6. Subrogation. If any or all of the proceeds of the Note have been used to extinguish, extend or renew any indebtedness heretofore existing against the Property, then, to the extent of the funds so used, Lender shall be subrogated to all of the rights, claims, liens, titles, and interests existing against the Property heretofore held by, or in favor of, the holder of such indebtedness and such former rights, claims, liens, titles, and interests, if any, are not waived but rather are continued in full force and effect in favor of Lender and are merged with the lien and security interest created herein as cumulative security for the repayment of the Debt, the performance and discharge of any Borrower's obligations hereunder, under the Loan Agreement, the Note and the other Loan Documents and the performance and discharge of the Other Obligations. Section 15.7. Entire Agreement. The Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents constitute the entire understanding and agreement between the Borrowers and Lender with respect to the transactions arising in connection with the 24
Debt and supersede all prior written or oral understandings and agreements between the Borrowers and Lender with respect thereto. Each Borrower hereby acknowledges that, except as incorporated in writing in the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents, there are not, and were not, and no persons are or were authorized by Lender to make, any representations, understandings, stipulations, agreements or promises, oral or written, with respect to the transaction which is the subject of the Note, the Loan Agreement, this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents. Section 15.8. Limitation on Lender's Responsibility. No provision of this Security Instrument shall operate to place any obligation or liability for the control, care, management or repair of the Property upon Lender, nor shall it operate to make Lender responsible or liable for any waste committed on the Property by the tenants or any other Person, or for any dangerous or defective condition of the Property, or for any negligence in the management, upkeep, repair or control of the Property resulting in loss or injury or death to any tenant, licensee, employee or stranger. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as constituting Lender a "mortgagee in possession." Section 15.9. Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury. EACH BORROWER HEREBY AGREES NOT TO ELECT A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY ISSUE TRIABLE OF RIGHT BY JURY, AND WAIVES ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY FULLY TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SUCH RIGHT SHALL NOW OR HEREAFTER EXIST WITH REGARD TO THIS SECURITY INSTRUMENT OR THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS, OR ANY CLAIM, COUNTERCLAIM OR OTHER ACTION ARISING IN CONNECTION THEREWITH. THIS WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IS GIVEN KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY BY EACH BORROWER, AND IS INTENDED TO ENCOMPASS INDIVIDUALLY EACH INSTANCE AND EACH ISSUE AS TO WHICH THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY WOULD OTHERWISE ACCRUE. LENDER IS EACH HEREBY AUTHORIZED TO FILE A COPY OF THIS PARAGRAPH IN ANY PROCEEDING AS CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE OF THIS WAIVER. Section 15.10. Secondary Market. Lender may sell, transfer and deliver the Note and assign this Security Instrument and the other Loan Documents to one or more investors in the secondary mortgage market ("Investors"). In connection with such sale, Lender may retain or assign responsibility for servicing the Loan, including the Note, this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents, or may delegate some or all of such responsibility and/or obligations to a servicer including, but not limited to, any subservicer or master servicer, on behalf of the Investors. All references to Lender herein shall refer to and include any such servicer to the extent applicable. Section 15.11. Cross-Collateralization. Without limitation to any other right or remedy provided to Lender or Trustee in this Security Instrument or any of the other Loan Documents, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that (i) upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, to the fullest extent permitted by law, Lender or Trustee shall have the right to pursue all of its rights and remedies in one proceeding, or separately and independently in separate proceedings which Lender or Trustee, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine from time to time, (ii) neither Lender nor Trustee is required to marshall assets, sell any collateral for 25
the Loan in any inverse order of alienation, or be subjected to any "one action" or "election of remedies" law or rule, (iii) the exercise by Lender or Trustee of any remedies against any collateral for the Loan will not impede Lender or Trustee from subsequently or simultaneously exercising remedies against other collateral for the Loan; (iv) all Liens and other rights, remedies and privileges provided to Lender or Trustee in the Loan Documents or otherwise shall remain in full force and effect until Lender or Trustee has exhausted all of its remedies against the collateral for the Loan and all of the collateral for the Loan has been foreclosed, sold and/or otherwise realized upon in satisfaction of the Loan; and (v) all of the Properties shall remain security for the performance of all of the obligations of each Borrower hereunder, under the Note and under any of the other Loan Documents. Section 15.12. Joint and Several Liability. If more than one Person has executed this Security Instrument as "Borrower," the representations, covenants, warranties and obligations of all such Persons hereunder shall be joint and several. Each Borrower further acknowledges and agrees that it shall be jointly and severally liable for the obligations of all the Other Borrowers under the Loan Documents. ARTICLE 16 - DEED OF TRUST PROVISIONS Section 16.1. Concerning the Trustee. Trustee shall be under no duty to take any action hereunder except as expressly required hereunder or by law, or to perform any act which would involve Trustee in any expense or liability or to institute or defend any suit in respect hereof, unless properly indemnified to Trustee's reasonable satisfaction. Trustee, by acceptance of this Security Instrument, covenants to perform and fulfill the trusts herein created, being liable, however, only for willful negligence or misconduct, and hereby waives any statutory fee and agrees to accept reasonable compensation, in lieu thereof, for any services rendered by Trustee in accordance with the terms hereof. Trustee may resign at any time upon giving thirty (30) days' notice to the Borrowers and to Lender. Lender may remove Trustee at any time or from time to time and select a successor trustee. In the event of the death, removal, resignation, refusal to act, or inability to act of Trustee, or in its sole discretion for any reason whatsoever Lender may, without notice and without specifying any reason therefor and without applying to any court, select and appoint a successor trustee, by an instrument recorded wherever this Security Instrument is recorded and all powers, rights, duties and authority of Trustee, as aforesaid, shall thereupon become vested in such successor. Such substitute trustee shall not be required to give bond for the faithful performance of the duties of Trustee hereunder unless required by Lender. The procedure provided for in this paragraph for substitution of Trustee shall be in addition to and not in exclusion of any other provisions for substitution, by law or otherwise. Section 16.2. Trustee's Fees. Each Borrower shall pay all reasonable costs, fees and expenses incurred by Trustee and Trustee's agents and counsel in connection with the performance by Trustee of Trustee's duties hereunder and all such costs, fees and expenses shall be secured by this Security Instrument. Section 16.3. Certain Rights. With the approval of Lender, Trustee shall have the right to take any and all of the following actions: (i) to select, employ, and advise with counsel (who may be, but need not be, counsel for Lender) upon any matters arising hereunder, including 26
the preparation, execution, and interpretation of the Loan Agreement, the Note, this Security Instrument or the other Loan Documents, and shall be fully protected in relying as to legal matters on the advice of counsel, (ii) to execute any of the trusts and powers hereof and to perform any duty hereunder either directly or through his agents or attorneys, (iii) to select and employ, in and about the execution of his duties hereunder, suitable accountants, engineers and other experts, agents and attorneys-in-fact, either corporate or individual, not regularly in the employ of Trustee, and Trustee shall not be answerable for any act, default, negligence, or misconduct of any such accountant, engineer or other expert, agent or attorney-in-fact, if selected with reasonable care, or for any error of judgment or act done by Trustee in good faith, or be otherwise responsible or accountable under any circumstances whatsoever, except for Trustee's gross negligence or bad faith, and (iv) any and all other lawful action as Lender may instruct Trustee to take to protect or enforce Lender's rights hereunder. Trustee shall not be personally liable in case of entry by Trustee, or anyone entering by virtue of the powers herein granted to Trustee, upon the Property for debts contracted for or liability or damages incurred in the management or operation of the Property. Trustee shall have the right to rely on any instrument, document, or signature authorizing or supporting an action taken or proposed to be taken by Trustee hereunder, believed by Trustee in good faith to be genuine. Trustee shall be entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses incurred by Trustee in the performance of Trustee's duties hereunder and to reasonable compensation for such of Trustee's services hereunder as shall be rendered. Section 16.4. Retention of Money. All moneys received by Trustee shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated in any manner from any other moneys (except to the extent required by applicable law) and Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any moneys received by Trustee hereunder. Section 16.5. Perfection of Appointment. Should any deed, conveyance, or instrument of any nature be required from any Borrower by any Trustee or substitute trustee to more fully and certainly vest in and confirm to the Trustee or substitute trustee such estates rights, powers, and duties, then, upon request by the Trustee or substitute trustee, any and all such deeds, conveyances and instruments shall be made, executed, acknowledged, and delivered and shall be caused to be recorded and/or filed by such Borrower. Section 16.6. Succession Instruments. Any substitute trustee appointed pursuant to any of the provisions hereof shall, without any further act, deed, or conveyance, become vested with all the estates, properties, rights, powers, and trusts of its or his predecessor in the rights hereunder with like effect as if originally named as Trustee herein; but nevertheless, upon the written request of Lender or of the substitute trustee, the Trustee ceasing to act shall execute and deliver any instrument transferring to such substitute trustee, upon the trusts herein expressed, all the estates, properties, rights, powers, and trusts of the Trustee so ceasing to act, and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver any of the property and moneys held by such Trustee to the substitute trustee so appointed in the Trustee's place. 27
ARTICLE 17 - STATE-SPECIFIC PROVISIONS Section 17.1. Principles of Construction. In the event of any inconsistencies between the terms and conditions of this Article 17 and the other terms and conditions of this Security Instrument, the terms and conditions of this Article 17 shall control and be binding. Section 17.2. Financing Statement. This Security Instrument shall also be effective as a financing statement covering minerals or the like (including oil and gas) and accounts subject to Subsection (3) of Section 9-103 of the Maryland Uniform Commercial Code, as amended, and similar provisions (if any) of the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in any other state where the Property is situated which will be financed at the wellhead or minehead of the wells or mines located on the Property and is to be filed for record in the real estate records of each county where any part of the Property is situated. This Security Instrument shall also be effective as a financing statement covering any other property and may be filed in any other appropriate filing or recording office. Section 17.3. Release. If and when the Borrowers have paid all of the Debt, as the same becomes due and payable, and all of the covenants, warranties, undertakings and agreements in this Security Instrument are kept and performed, and all obligations, if any, of Lender for future advances have been terminated, then, and in that event only, all rights under this Security Instrument shall terminate (except to the extent expressly provided herein with respect to indemnifications, representations and warranties and other rights which are to continue following the release hereof), and the Trustee, upon request by Lender, will provide a release of this Security Instrument to the Borrowers. The Borrowers shall be responsible for the recordation of such release and payment of any recording costs associated therewith. Section 17.4. Additional Remedies. In addition to any other rights they may have at law or in equity, following an Event of Default hereunder, (i) Trustee may take possession of and sell the Property, or any part thereof requested by Lender to be sold, and in connection therewith each Borrower hereby (A) assents to the passage of a decree for the sale of the Property by the equity court having jurisdiction, and (B) authorizes and empowers Trustee to take possession of and sell (or in case of the default of any purchaser to resell) the Property, or any part thereof, all in accordance with the laws or rules of court of the State of Maryland relating to deeds of trust, including any amendments thereof, or additions thereto, which do not materially change or impair the remedy. In connection with any foreclosure, Lender and/or Trustee may (y) procure such title reports, surveys, tax histories and appraisals as they deem necessary, and (z) make such repairs and additions to the Property as they deem advisable, subject to the terms and provisions contained in the Leases (if any), all of which shall constitute Expenses (hereinafter defined). In the case of any sale under this Security Instrument, by virtue of judicial proceedings or otherwise, the Property may be sold as an entirety or in parcels, by one sale or by several sales, and any fixtures or collateral encumbered by this Security Instrument may be sold at the same sale as the Property or in one or more sales, as may be deemed by Trustee to be appropriate and without regard to any right of any Borrower or any other person to the marshalling of assets, for cash, on credit or for other property, for immediate or future delivery, and for such price or prices and on such terms having first given such notice prior to the sale of such time, place and terms by publication in at least one newspaper published or having general circulation in the county or counties in which the Property is located or at such time or times as may be required 28
by the laws of the State of Maryland or rule of court of the State of Maryland, and such other times and by such other methods, if any, as Trustee, in its sole discretion, shall deem advantageous and proper. "Expenses" means all costs and expenses of any nature whatsoever incurred at any time and from time to time (whether before or after an Event of Default) by Lender or Trustee in exercising or enforcing any rights, powers and remedies provided in this Security Instrument or any of the other Loan Documents, including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, court costs, receivers' fees, management fees and costs incurred in the repair, maintenance and operation of, or taking possession of the Property, subject to the terms and provisions contained in the Leases (if any) as to the costs for maintenance and repair, or selling, the Property. Section 17.5. Foreclosure. Any sale of Property hereunder may be made at public auction, at such time or times, at such place or places, upon such terms and conditions and after such previous public notice as Trustee shall deem appropriate and advantageous and as required by the laws of the State of Maryland. Upon the terms of such sale being complied with, Trustee shall convey to, and at the cost of, the purchaser or purchasers the interest of such Borrower in the Property so sold, free and discharged of and from all estate, title or interest of such Borrower, at law or in equity, such purchaser or purchasers being hereby discharged from all liability to see to the application of the purchase money. Lender and any affiliate thereof may be a purchaser of the Property or of any part thereof or of any interest therein at any public sale thereof, whether pursuant to foreclosure or power of sale or otherwise hereunder, without forfeiting its right to collect any deficiency from any Borrower; and Lender may apply upon the purchase price the Debt secured hereby owing to Lender. Lender, upon any such purchase, shall acquire good title to the properties so purchased, free of the lien of this Security Instrument and free of all rights of redemption in any Borrower and free of all liens and encumbrances subordinate to this Security Instrument. The proceeds of such sale or sales under this Security Instrument, whether under the assent to a decree, the power of sale, or by equitable foreclosure, shall be held by Trustee and applied as follows: (i) first (A) all Expenses incurred in connection with such sale or in preparing the Property for such sale and of obtaining possession including, among other things, counsel fees reasonably incurred shall be allowed and paid out of the proceeds of such sale or sales as the court having jurisdiction may deem proper, (B) the Trustee's Commission (hereinafter defined) and expenses and (C) all taxes, levies, assessments or other charges relating to the Property which have or in the opinion of Trustee may have, priority over the lien of this Security Instrument, including the pro rata portion thereof applicable to the taxable period during which any payment is made pursuant to this subsection; (ii) second, to pay all of the Debt and all interest then due and accrued thereon, which shall include interest through the date of ratification of the auditor's account; (iii) third, to pay the amount of any liens of record inferior to this Security Instrument, together with lawful interest, and lawful claims of third parties against the proceeds of any sale; and (iv) lastly, to pay the surplus, if any, to any Borrower or any person or entity entitled thereto unless otherwise required by law or directed by a court of competent jurisdiction. In the event that the proceeds of any such sale or sales, together with all other monies at the time held by Trustee under this Security Instrument, are insufficient to pay the foregoing costs and expenses, Lender may, at its sole option, advance such sums as Lender in its sole and absolute discretion shall determine for the purpose of paying all or any part of such costs and expenses, and all such sums so advanced shall be (A) a lien against the Property, (B) added to the amount due under the Note and secured by this Security Instrument, and (C) payable on demand with interest at the rate of interest applicable to the principal balance of the 29
Note, from and including the date each such advance is made. In any event, each Borrower shall be liable to Lender for any deficiency if the proceeds of any such sale or sales are insufficient to pay, in full, all amounts to be distributed pursuant to the clause (i) above. The Borrowers shall pay to Trustee a commission in the amount of two and one half percent (2.5%) of the then-outstanding debt secured hereby if the Property is advertised for sale under the provisions of this Security Instrument and is not sold, and the Borrowers shall also pay or reimburse Trustee for all of Trustee's expenses and disbursements hereunder regardless of whether the Property is sold (the "Trustee's Commission"). [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE] 30
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, THIS SECURITY INSTRUMENT has been executed under seal by each Borrower as of the day and year first above written. THI OF MARYLAND REAL ESTATE, HOLDING CO.,LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL (SEAL) ------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT BEL PRE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL (SEAL) ------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President
ACKNOWLEDGMENT STATE OF NEW YORK ) ) ss: COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On October 30, 2002, before me, a Notary Public in and for said state, personally appeared Jeffrey A. Barnhill, personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their capacity, and that by his/her/their signature on the instrument, the person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument. /s/ KATINA NASH ---------------------------- Notary Public: My commission expires: 6-30-03 [Notary Seal] ACKNOWLEDGMENT STATE OF NEW YORK ) ) ss: COUNTY OF NEW YORK ) On October 30, 2002, before me, a Notary Public in and for said state, personally appeared Jeffrey A. Barnhill, personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is (are) subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument, the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument. /s/ KATINA NASH ---------------------------- Notary Public: My commission expires: 6-30-03 [Notary Seal]
ATTORNEY'S CERTIFICATE I HEREBY CERTIFY that the within instrument was prepared by or under the supervision of the undersigned, an attorney duly admitted to practice before the Court of Appeals of Maryland. /s/ JEFFREY H. SEIBERT ----------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey H. Seibert ------------------------------ 1

EXHIBIT 10.2.7 ------------- SCHEDULE OF AGREEMENTS SUBSTANTIALLY IDENTICAL IN ALL MATERIAL RESPECTS TO AGREEMENTS FILED AS EXHIBITS 10.2.4, 10.2.5 AND 10.2.6 PURSUANT TO INSTRUCTION 2 TO ITEM 601 OF REGULATION S-K In addition to the agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2.4 to this filing, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership has executed and delivered an ASSIGNMENT OF LEASES, RENTS, AND CONTRACTS dated as of November 1, 2002 from the Borrowers identified therein to Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lender, with respect to each of the properties listed in the schedule below. Such agreements are substantially identical in all material respects with the agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2.4 to this filing, except for immaterial differences relating to recording, mortgage and other similar taxes, notary acknowledgements, attestation requirements, corporate seal requirements, and other similar items and relating to site or state-specific legal requirements, remedies and other matters. FACILITY NO. FACILITY NAME AND ADDRESS - -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- 2202 Valley View Healthcare Center, 825 June Street, Fremont, Ohio 43420 (Sandusky County) 2203 Northwestern Care Center, 570 North Rocky River Road, Berea, Ohio 44017 (Cuyahoga County) 2204 Oak Grove Quality Care Nursing and Rehab Center, 620 East Water Street, Deshler, Ohio 43516 (Henry County) 2205 Paradise Oaks Quality Care Nursing and Rehab Center, 152 Main Street, Cloverdale, Ohio 45827 (Putnam County) 2206 Somerset Quality Care, 441 South Columbus Street, Somerset, Ohio 43783 (Perry County) 2207 Willard Quality Care Center, 725 Wessor Avenue, Willard, Ohio 44890 (Huron County) 2208 Hillcrest Manor Care Center, 6674 Stafford Road, Washington Court House, Ohio 43160 (Fayette County) 2209 Maple View Manor, 430 South Maple Street, Bainbridge, Ohio 45612 (Ross County) 2210 Wintersong Village of Washington Court House, 719 Rawlings Street, Washington Court House, Ohio 43160 (Fayette County) 2211 Woodland Care Center, 6431 State Route 104, McDermott, Ohio 45652 (Scioto County) 2212 Heritage House Adult Care Home, 6529 State Route 104, McDermott, Ohio 45652 (Scioto County) 2213 Greenbriar of Portsmouth, 1242 Crescent Drive, Wheelersburg, OH 45694 (Scioto County) 2214 Golden Years Healthcare Center, 2125 Royce Street, Portsmouth, Ohio 45662 (Scioto County) 2215 Millennium Health and Rehabilitation of Bel Pre, 2601 Bel Pre Road, Silver Spring, Maryland 20747 (Montgomery County) 2216 Millennium Health & Rehab at Liberty Heights, 4017 Liberty Heights Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21207 (Baltimore County) 2217 Millennium Health and rehabilitation Center at Marley Neck, 7575 East Howard Road, Glen Burnie, Maryland 21060 (Anne Arundel County) 2218 Millennium Health and Rehabilitation at Northwest, 4601 Pall Mall Road, Baltimore, Maryland 21215 (Baltimore County) 2219 Wintersong Adult Care Home, 432 Delaware Street, Washington Court House, Ohio 43160 (Fayette County) 2220 Rosemont Court, 780 Gregg Street, Washington Court House, Ohio 43160 (Fayette County)
In addition to the agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2.5 to this filing, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership has executed and delivered an OPEN-END FEE AND LEASEHOLD MORTGAGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT or similarly titled document dated as of November 1, 2002 by the Borrowers identified therein to Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lender, with respect to each of the properties listed in the schedule below. Such agreements are substantially identical in all material respects with the agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2.5 to this filing. FACILITY NO. FACILITY NAME AND ADDRESS - -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- 2202 Valley View Healthcare Center, 825 June Street, Fremont, Ohio 43420 (Sandusky County) 2203 Northwestern Care Center, 570 North Rocky River Road, Berea, Ohio 44017 (Cuyahoga County) 2204 Oak Grove Quality Care Nursing and Rehab Center, 620 East Water Street, Deshler, Ohio 43516 (Henry County) 2205 Paradise Oaks Quality Care Nursing and Rehab Center, 152 Main Street, Cloverdale, Ohio 45827 (Putnam County) 2206 Somerset Quality Care, 441 South Columbus Street, Somerset, Ohio 43783 (Perry County) 2207 Willard Quality Care Center, 725 Wessor Avenue, Willard, Ohio 44890 (Huron County) 2208 Hillcrest Manor Care Center, 6674 Stafford Road, Washington Court House, Ohio 43160 (Fayette County) 2209 Maple View Manor, 430 South Maple Street, Bainbridge, Ohio 45612 (Ross County) 2210 Wintersong Village of Washington Court House, 719 Rawlings Street, Washington Court House, Ohio 43160 (Fayette County) 2211 Woodland Care Center, 6431 State Route 104, McDermott, Ohio 45652 (Scioto County) 2212 Heritage House Adult Care Home, 6529 State Route 104, McDermott, Ohio 45652 (Scioto County) 2213 Greenbriar of Portsmouth, 1242 Crescent Drive, Wheelersburg, OH 45694 (Scioto County) 2214 Golden Years Healthcare Center, 2125 Royce Street, Portsmouth, Ohio 45662 (Scioto County) 2219 Wintersong Adult Care Home, 432 Delaware Street, Washington Court House, Ohio 43160 (Fayette County) 2220 Rosemont Court, 780 Gregg Street, Washington Court House, Ohio 43160 (Fayette County) 2
In addition to the agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2.6 to this filing, a DEED OF TRUST AND SECURITY AGREEMENT dated as of November 1, 2002 by the Borrowers identified therein to Brian Lobuts, an individual, as Trustee, for the benefit of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Lender, with respect to each of the properties listed in the schedule below. Such agreements are substantially identical in all material respects with the agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2.6 to this filing. FACILITY NO. FACILITY NAME AND ADDRESS - -------- ------------------------------------------------------------------- 2216 Millennium Health & Rehabilitation at Liberty Heights, 4017 Liberty Heights Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21207 (Baltimore County) 2217 Millennium Health and Rehabilitation Center at Marley Neck, 7575 East Howard Road, Glen Burnie, Maryland 21060 (Anne Arundel County) 2218 Millennium Health and Rehabilitation at Northwest, 4601 Pall Mall Road, Baltimore, Maryland 21215 (Baltimore County) 3

Exhibit 10.3.1 MEZZANINE LOAN AGREEMENT Dated as of November 1, 2002 Among THOSE ENTITIES LISTED AS A "BORROWER" ON SCHEDULE III, collectively, as Borrowers and VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, as Lender
ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS; PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION.......................2 SECTION 1.1. DEFINITIONS................................................2 SECTION 1.2. PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION................................28 ARTICLE II. THE LOAN.....................................................28 SECTION 2.1. THE LOAN..................................................28 SECTION 2.2. INTEREST RATE.............................................29 SECTION 2.3. LOAN PAYMENTS.............................................29 SECTION 2.4. PREPAYMENTS...............................................30 SECTION 2.5. SUPPLEMENTAL MORTGAGE AFFIDAVITS..........................32 ARTICLE III. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES...............................32 SECTION 3.1. BORROWER REPRESENTATIONS..................................32 SECTION 3.2. SURVIVAL OF REPRESENTATIONS...............................45 ARTICLE IV. BORROWER COVENANTS...........................................46 SECTION 4.1. BORROWER AFFIRMATIVE COVENANTS............................46 SECTION 4.2. BORROWER NEGATIVE COVENANTS...............................55 ARTICLE V. INSURANCE, CASUALTY AND CONDEMNATION.........................60 SECTION 5.1. INSURANCE.................................................60 SECTION 5.2. CASUALTY AND CONDEMNATION.................................65 SECTION 5.3. DELIVERY OF NET PROCEEDS..................................66 ARTICLE VI. ACCOUNTS.....................................................70 SECTION 6.1. MEZZANINE CASH MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT/ MEZZANINE COLLECTION ACCOUNT...........................70 SECTION 6.2. DISTRIBUTIONS FROM MEZZANINE CASH MANAGEMENT ACCOUNT......71 SECTION 6.3. TAX AND INSURANCE ESCROW ACCOUNT..........................72 SECTION 6.4. DEBT SERVICE ACCOUNT......................................74 SECTION 6.5. OPERATING EXPENSE RESERVE ACCOUNT.........................74 SECTION 6.6. CAPITAL EXPENDITURE RESERVE ACCOUNT.......................75 SECTION 6.7. DEFERRED MAINTENANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL ESCROW ACCOUNT.....76 SECTION 6.8. NET PROCEEDS ACCOUNT......................................76 SECTION 6.9. INTENTIONALLY DELETED.....................................77 SECTION 6.10. GROUND RENT ESCROW ACCOUNT................................77 SECTION 6.11. ACCOUNT COLLATERAL........................................77 SECTION 6.12. PERMITTED INVESTMENTS.....................................78 SECTION 6.13. BANKRUPTCY................................................78 SECTION 6.14. LETTERS OF CREDIT.........................................79 SECTION 6.15. PROVISIONS REGARDING LETTERS OF CREDIT....................80 i
ARTICLE VII. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT..........................................80 SECTION 7.1. THE MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT..................................81 SECTION 7.2. PROHIBITION AGAINST TERMINATION OR MODIFICATION...........81 SECTION 7.3. REPLACEMENT OF MANAGER....................................81 ARTICLE VIII. TRANSFERS....................................................82 SECTION 8.1. TRANSFER OF THE PROPERTIES AND COLLATERAL.................82 SECTION 8.2. TRANSFER OF EQUITY INTERESTS..............................82 SECTION 8.3. LENDER'S CONSENT RIGHTS...................................82 ARTICLE IX. SALE AND SECURITIZATION OF MORTGAGE..........................83 SECTION 9.1. SALE OF MORTGAGES AND SECURITIZATION......................83 SECTION 9.2. SECURITIZATION INDEMNIFICATION............................84 ARTICLE X. DEFAULTS.....................................................86 SECTION 10.1. EVENT OF DEFAULT..........................................86 SECTION 10.2. REMEDIES..................................................90 SECTION 10.3. REMEDIES CUMULATIVE.......................................92 ARTICLE XI. MISCELLANEOUS................................................92 SECTION 11.1. SUCCESSORS AND ASSIGNS....................................92 SECTION 11.2. LENDER'S DISCRETION.......................................92 SECTION 11.3. GOVERNING LAW.............................................93 SECTION 11.4. MODIFICATION, WAIVER IN WRITING...........................94 SECTION 11.5. DELAY NOT A WAIVER........................................94 SECTION 11.6. NOTICES...................................................95 SECTION 11.7. WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY..........................96 SECTION 11.8. HEADINGS..................................................96 SECTION 11.9. SEVERABILITY..............................................96 SECTION 11.10. PREFERENCES...............................................96 SECTION 11.11. WAIVER OF NOTICE..........................................97 SECTION 11.12. REMEDIES OF BORROWER......................................97 SECTION 11.13. EXPENSES; INDEMNITY.......................................97 SECTION 11.14. SCHEDULES INCORPORATED....................................98 SECTION 11.15. OFFSETS, COUNTERCLAIMS AND DEFENSES.......................98 SECTION 11.16. NO JOINT VENTURE OR PARTNERSHIP; NO THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARIES...........................99 SECTION 11.17. PUBLICITY.................................................99 SECTION 11.18. WAIVER OF MARSHALLING OF ASSETS...........................99 SECTION 11.19. WAIVER OF OFFSETS/DEFENSES/COUNTERCLAIMS.................100 SECTION 11.20. CONFLICT; CONSTRUCTION OF DOCUMENTS; RELIANCE............100 SECTION 11.21. BROKERS AND FINANCIAL ADVISORS...........................100 ii
SECTION 11.22. INTENTIONALLY DELETED....................................101 SECTION 11.23. PRIOR AGREEMENTS.........................................101 SECTION 11.24. SERVICER.................................................101 SECTION 11.25. DUPLICATE ORIGINALS; COUNTERPARTS........................101 SECTION 11.26. CROSS COLLATERALIZATION..................................101 SECTION 11.27. JOINT AND SEVERAL LIABILITY..............................102 iii
SCHEDULES Schedule I - Mortgage Borrowers Schedule II - Intentionally Deleted Schedule III - Borrowers, Licensed Beds Schedule IV - Organizational Chart Schedule V - Allocated Loan Amount Schedule VI - Amortization Schedule VII - Intentionally Deleted Schedule VIII - Guarantors Schedule IX - Insurance Claims Schedule X - Waivers of Physical Plant Standards Schedule XI - Pending Audits Schedule XII - Waivers in Connection with Licensed Beds Schedule XIII - Proceedings and Notices Exhibits Exhibit A - Intentionally Deleted Exhibit B - Intentionally Deleted Exhibit C - Intentionally Deleted Exhibit D - Material Agreements iv
MEZZANINE LOAN AGREEMENT THIS MEZZANINE LOAN AGREEMENT, dated as of November 1, 2002 (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, this "Agreement"), among VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207 (together with its successors and assigns "Lender") and THOSE ENTITIES LISTED AS A "BORROWER" ON SCHEDULE III attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company and each having an address at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 (each, a "Borrower" and collectively, the "Borrowers"). All capitalized terms used herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in Article I hereof. W I T N E S S E T H : WHEREAS, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, as mortgage lender (together with its successors and assigns, the "Mortgage Lender"), has made a loan in the maximum principal amount of $55,000,0000 (the "Mortgage Loan") to those entities listed as a "Mortgage Borrower" on Schedule I attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company (each, a "Mortgage Borrower" and collectively, the "Mortgage Borrowers") pursuant to a Loan Agreement of even date herewith (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Mortgage Loan Agreement"), which Mortgage Loan is evidenced by a Promissory Note of even date herewith (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Mortgage Note") made by the Mortgage Borrowers to Mortgage Lender and secured by, among other things, those certain Mortgages (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) made by each of the Mortgage Borrowers in favor of Mortgage Lender pursuant to which the Mortgage Borrowers have granted to the Mortgage Lender first priority mortgages and deeds of trust on the real property and other collateral as more fully described in the Mortgages (each, a "Mortgage Property" and collectively, the "Mortgage Properties"); WHEREAS, THI of Ohio ALFs I, LLC (the "Fee Property Borrower") is the owner of a fee interest in each of the Mezzanine Properties (as defined below) listed opposite its name on Schedule III attached hereto; WHEREAS, each of (i) THI of Ohio at Kent, LLC, (ii) THI of Ohio at Cortland, LLC, (iii) THI of Ohio at Berea, LLC, (iv) THI of Maryland at Franklin Square, LLC and (v) THI of Maryland at Fort Washington, LLC (each, a "Leasehold Property Borrower" and collectively, the "Leasehold Property Borrowers") is the owner of a leasehold interest in the Mezzanine Property (as defined below) listed opposite its name on Schedule III attached hereto; WHEREAS, THI of Maryland at Franklin Square, LLC is the owner of a fee interest in the Mezzanine Property that is a parking lot;
WHEREAS, THI of Ohio SNFs, LLC (the "Ohio Equity Borrower") is the legal and beneficial owner of all of the membership interests in each Mortgage Borrower listed under its name on Schedule I attached hereto (such membership interests, the "Ohio Pledged Company Interests"); WHEREAS, THI of Maryland SNFs I, LLC (the "Maryland I Equity Borrower") is the legal and beneficial owner of all of the membership interests in each Mortgage Borrower listed under its name on Schedule I attached hereto (such membership interests, the "Maryland I Pledged Company Interests"); WHEREAS, THI of Maryland SNFs II, LLC (the "Maryland II Equity Borrower") is the legal and beneficial owner of all of the membership interests in each of (i) THI of Maryland at Franklin Square, LLC and (ii) THI of Maryland at Fort Washington, LLC (such membership interests, the "Maryland II Pledged Company Interests"); WHEREAS, (i) the Fee Property Borrower and the Leasehold Property Borrowers are individually referred to herein as, a "Property Borrower" and collectively as, the "Property Borrowers", (ii) the Ohio Equity Borrower, the Maryland I Equity Borrower and the Maryland II Equity Borrower are individually referred to herein, as an "Equity Borrower" and collectively as, the "Equity Borrowers" and (iii) the Ohio Pledged Company Interests, the Maryland I Pledged Company Interests and the Maryland II Pledged Company Interests are referred to herein collectively as, the "Pledged Company Interests"; WHEREAS, the Borrowers have requested that Lender make a loan to the Borrowers in the initial principal amount of $22,000,000 (the "Loan"); and WHEREAS, as a condition precedent to the obligation of Lender to make the Loan to the Borrowers, (i) each Equity Borrower has entered into that certain Mezzanine Pledge and Security Agreement of even date herewith in favor of Lender (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Pledge Agreement"), pursuant to which such Equity Borrower has granted to Lender a first priority security interest in the Collateral (as defined in the Pledge Agreement) as collateral security for the Debt (as defined below) and (ii) each Property Borrower has entered into a Mortgage (as defined below) in favor of Lender, pursuant to which such Property Borrower has granted to Lender a first priority security interest in each Mezzanine Property (as defined below); NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the covenants set forth in this Agreement, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree, represent and warrant as follows: 2
ARTICLE DEFINITIONS; PRINCIPLES OF CONSTRUCTION Section 1.1. Definitions. For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided: "Account Collateral" means, collectively, the Collateral Accounts and all sums at any time held, deposited or invested therein, together with any interest or other earnings thereon, and all proceeds thereof (including proceeds of sales and other dispositions), whether accounts, general intangibles, chattel paper, deposit accounts, instruments, documents or securities. "Accreditation" means certification by a generally recognized independent agency or other organization that a facility fully complies with the standards set by such agency or organization for operation of such a facility. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this Agreement, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities or other beneficial interests, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controls," "controlling" and "controlled" have the meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Agreement" means this Loan Agreement, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Allocated Loan Amount" means the portion of the Loan Amount allocated to each Mezzanine Property as set forth on Schedule V, as such amounts shall be adjusted from time to time as hereinafter set forth. Upon each adjustment in the amount of Debt due to (A) a regular payment of monthly Debt Service pursuant to Section 2.3.1, each Allocated Loan Amount shall be decreased by an amount equal to the product of (i) the amount of such payment and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the applicable Allocated Loan Amount (prior to the adjustment in question) and the denominator of which is the total of all Allocated Loan Amounts (prior to the adjustment in question) or (B) an adjustment of the Loan Amount as a result of a reallocation of the aggregate principal balance of the Loan and the Mortgage Loan pursuant to Section 2 of the Cooperation Agreement, each Allocated Loan Amount shall be decreased or increased by an amount equal to the product of (i) the amount by which the Loan Amount is to be decreased or increased in connection with a reallocation pursuant to Section 2 of the Cooperation Agreement and (ii) a fraction, the numerator of which is the applicable Allocated Loan Amount (prior to the adjustment in question) and the denominator of which is the total of all Allocated Loan Amounts (prior to the adjustment in question). Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence to the contrary, when the Debt is reduced as the result of Lender's receipt of proceeds with respect to a Condemnation or Casualty affecting one hundred percent (100%) of a Mezzanine Property, the Allocated Loan Amount for such Mezzanine Property with respect to which the insurance proceeds or Award were received shall, at Lender's sole discretion, be reduced to zero (such Allocated Loan Amount prior to reduction being referred to as the 3
"Withdrawn Allocated Amount"), and each other Allocated Loan Amount shall, if the Withdrawn Allocated Amount exceeds the proceeds (such excess being referred to as the "Proceeds Deficiency"), be increased by an amount equal to the product of (1) the Proceeds Deficiency and (2) a fraction, the numerator of which is the applicable Allocated Loan Amount (prior to the adjustment in question) and the denominator of which is the aggregate of all of the Allocated Loan Amounts (prior to the adjustment in question) other than the Withdrawn Allocated Amount. "ALTA" means American Land Title Association, or any successor thereto. "Alteration Threshold" means (a) with respect to any Mezzanine Property, the greater of (i) five percent (5%) of the Allocated Loan Amount for such Mezzanine Property or (ii) $200,000 and (b) with respect to the Mezzanine Properties, two percent (2%) of the Loan Amount. "Annual Budget" means the operating and capital budget for the Mezzanine Properties on a combined basis and for each Mezzanine Property setting forth, in reasonable detail, (i) Borrowers' good faith estimate of the anticipated results of operations, including Operating Income, Operating Expenses, and Capital Expenditures for the applicable Fiscal Year and (ii) a breakdown of projected Patient Revenues and other revenues of each Borrower and its Affiliates itemized by payor type. "Assignment of Leases" means, with respect to each Mezzanine Property, that certain first priority Assignment of Leases and Rents and Contracts, dated as of the date hereof, from the applicable Property Borrower, as assignor, to Lender, as assignee, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and "Assignments of Leases and Rents" means all such instruments collectively. "Assisted Living Facility" means a residential or facility-based program that provides housing and supportive services, supervision, personalized assistance, health-related services or a combination thereof which meets the needs of individuals who are unable to perform or who need assistance in performing the activities of daily living, whether licensed as an assisted living facility, a residential care facility or adult care facility. "Assignment of Management Agreement" means that certain Assignment of Management Agreement and Staff Leasing Agreement dated the date hereof among the Property Borrowers, Manager, each Staff Provider and Lender, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and "Assignments of Management Agreements" means all such instruments collectively. "Award" means any compensation paid by any Governmental Authority in connection with a Condemnation in respect of all or any part of a Mezzanine Property. "Bankruptcy Code" means Title 11 of the United States Code entitled "Bankruptcy", as amended from time to time, and any successor statute or statutes and all rules 4
and regulations from time to time promulgated thereunder, and any comparable foreign laws relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or creditors' rights. "Basic Carrying Costs" means, with respect to each Mezzanine Property, the sum of the following costs associated with such Mezzanine Property: (i) Taxes, (ii) Insurance Premiums and (iii) ground rents, if any. "Berea Ground Lease" means that certain Lease Agreement dated January 1, 1991 by and between Laurence W. Gertsma, Trustee and Howard Wyles, Trustee (collectively, the "Berea Ground Lessor") and Northwestern Service Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Berea Original Lessee"), as assigned pursuant to the Assignment and Landlord's Consent and Estoppel Certificate dated May 31, 2000 among the Berea Ground Lessor, Providence Health Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation (successor to the Berea Original Lessee), and Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as further assigned to the applicable Borrower, as amended, modified and in effect from time to time. "Borrower" and "Borrowers" each has the meaning set forth in the first paragraph of this Agreement. "Borrower Party" means each Borrower, each Mortgage Borrower and each entity which held any Regulatory Permit (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) relating to any Property prior to transferring same to such Borrower or Mortgage Borrower, as applicable. "Business Day" means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a legal holiday on which national banks are not open for general business in the State of New York or the State where the Cash Management Bank is located. "Capital Expenditure Reserve Account" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.6(a). "Capital Expenditures" means, with respect to each Mezzanine Property, hard and soft costs incurred by any Property Borrower with respect to replacements and capital repairs made to the Mezzanine Property (including repairs to, and replacements of, structural components, roofs, building systems, parking garages and parking lots), in each case to the extent capitalized in accordance with GAAP and to the extent not paid by Net Proceeds. "Casualty" means the occurrence of any casualty, damage or injury, by fire or otherwise, to a Property or any part thereof. "Casualty Consultant" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3.2(c). "Casualty Retainage" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3.2(d). "Closing Date" means the date of funding the Loan. 5
"CMS" means the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (formerly known as the Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA")). "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and as it may be further amended from time to time, any successor statutes thereto, and applicable U.S. Department of Treasury regulations issued pursuant thereto in temporary or final form. "Collateral" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Collateral Accounts" means, collectively, the Mezzanine Cash Management Account, the Mezzanine Collection Account, the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account, the Ground Rent Escrow Account, the Debt Service Account, the Net Proceeds Account, the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account, the Operating Expense Reserve Account and the Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account. "CON" means a certificate of need or similar permit or approval (not including conventional building permits) from a Governmental Authority related to the construction and/or operation of Improvements at any Property for use for a specified number of beds in a Nursing Facility, Assisted Living Facility and/or Specialty Hospital, or alteration of any such Improvements or modifications of services provided at a Property used as a Nursing Facility, Assisted Living Facility and/or Specialty Hospital. "Condemnation" means a temporary or permanent taking by any Governmental Authority as the result or in lieu or in anticipation of the exercise of the right of condemnation or eminent domain, of all or any part of a Property, or any interest therein or right accruing thereto, including any right of access thereto or any change of grade affecting the applicable Property or any part thereof. "Cooperation Agreement" means that certain Cooperation Agreement of even date herewith among Lender, Mortgage Borrowers, Borrowers and Guarantors, as the same may from time to time be modified, amended or replaced. "Cortland Ground Lease" means that certain Lease Agreement dated October 22, 1974 by and between Carr-Lee Inc., an Ohio corporation ("Cortland Ground Lessor") and Northwestern Service Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Cortland Original Lessee"), as assigned pursuant to the Assignment and Landlord's Consent and Estoppel Certificate dated May 31, 2000 among Kamalt Corporation, an Ohio corporation (as successor to the Cortland Ground Lessor), Providence Health Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation (successor to Cortland Original Lessee), and Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as further assigned to the applicable Borrower, as amended, modified and in effect from time to time. "Debt" means the outstanding principal amount of the Loan together with all interest accrued and unpaid thereon and all other sums (including, without limitation, any Prepayment Premium payable hereunder and any of Lender's costs and expenses for which any Borrower is responsible under the terms of any of the Loan Documents) due to Lender in respect 6
of the Loan under the Note, this Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Master Guaranty Pledge, the Mortgages, the Environmental Indemnity or any other Loan Document. "Debt Constant" means eleven and thirty-three one hundredths percent (11.33%). "Debt Service" means, with respect to any particular period of time, scheduled principal and interest payments under the Note. "Debt Service Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.4. "Debt Service Coverage Ratio" shall mean, for any twelve (12) calendar month period, the ratio of (i) the Pro Forma Net Operating Income for all Properties for such period immediately preceding the date of calculation to (ii) Debt Service plus the Mortgage Debt Service for the twelve (12) calendar month period following the date of calculation assuming, as to the Debt Service, an interest rate equal to the greater of the Debt Constant and the Interest Rate in effect on the date of such calculation. "Default" means the occurrence of any event hereunder or under any other Loan Document which, but for the giving of notice or passage of time, or both, would be an Event of Default. "Default Rate" means, with respect to the Loan, a rate per annum equal to the lesser of (i) the Maximum Legal Rate, or (ii) four percent (4%) above the Interest Rate. "Deferred Maintenance Amount" means $179,456.25. "Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.7(a). "Deferred Maintenance Conditions" means those items described in the property condition reports delivered to Lender in connection with the Loan. "Disclosure Document" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(a). "Eligible Account" means a separate and identifiable account from all other funds held by the holding institution that is either (i) an account or accounts maintained with a federal or state-chartered depository institution or trust company which complies with the definition of Eligible Institution or (ii) a segregated trust account or accounts maintained with a federal or state chartered depository institution or trust company acting in its fiduciary capacity which, in the case of a state chartered depository institution or trust company is subject to regulations substantially similar to 12 C.F.R. (s).9.10(b), having in either case a combined capital and surplus of at least fifty million dollars ($50,000,000) and subject to supervision or examination by federal and state authority. An Eligible Account will not be evidenced by a certificate of deposit, passbook or other instrument. 7
"Eligible Institution" means a depository institution or trust company insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation the short term unsecured debt obligations or commercial paper of which are rated at least A-1 by S&P, P-1 by Moody's, and F-1+ by Fitch in the case of accounts in which funds are held for thirty (30) days or less or, in the case of Letters of Credit or accounts in which funds are held for more than thirty (30) days, the long term unsecured debt obligations of which are rated at least "AA-" by Fitch and S&P and "Aa2" by Moody's. "Embargoed Person" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.37. "Environmental Indemnity" means that certain Environmental Indemnity Agreement dated as of the date hereof executed by Borrowers and Guarantors in connection with the Loan for the benefit of Lender. "Equipment" has the meaning set forth in the Granting Clause of the Mortgages. "Equity Borrowers" and "Equity Borrower" each has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "ERISA" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2.11. "Event of Default" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.1. "Exchange Act" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(a). "Fee Property Borrower" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Fiscal Year" means each twelve (12) month period commencing on January 1 and ending on December 31 during each year of the term of the Loan. "Fitch" means Fitch, Inc. "Franklin Square Ground Lease" means that certain Lease Agreement dated May 1, 1993 by and between Ellsea Realty Limited Partnership, as beneficial owner and Robert M. Hankin and Mary C. Eubert, as personal representatives to the Estate of Asa H. Wessels, as record owner (collectively the "Franklin Square Ground Lessor") and Camden Yards Nursing and Rehabilitation Center, LLC, a Maryland limited liability company ("Franklin Square Original Lessee"), as assigned by Franklin Square Original Lessee to Mariner Health of Maryland, Inc. ("Mariner") pursuant to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement with Guaranty dated October 1, 1996; as further assigned by Mariner to Millennium Health and Rehabilitation Center of Franklin Square, LLC, a Maryland limited liability company, pursuant to the Assignment and Assumption Agreement dated June 1, 1999, as further assigned to the applicable Borrower, as amended, modified and in effect from time to time. 8
"Fort Washington Ground Lease" means that certain Lease dated December 1, 2000, between Fort Washington Care Center Limited Partnership, a Maryland limited partnership ("Fort Washington Ground Lessor") and Millennium Health and Rehabilitation Center of Fort Washington, LLC ("Original Fort Washington Ground Lessee"), as assigned to the applicable Borrower, as amended, modified and in effect from time to time. "GAAP" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or agencies with similar functions of comparable stature and authority within the accounting profession), or in such other statements by such entity as may be in general use by significant segments of the U.S. accounting profession. "Governmental Authority" means any court, board, agency, commission, office or authority of any nature whatsoever or any governmental unit (federal, state, county, district, municipal, city or otherwise) whether now or hereafter in existence, including, without limitation, CMS, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, any state licensing agency and/or any state Medicaid agency. "Ground Leases" mean, collectively, the Berea Ground Lease, the Cortland Ground Lease, the Franklin Square Ground Lease, the Fort Washington Ground Lease and the Kent Ground Lease, and "Ground Lease" means any of such ground leases individually. "Ground Lessor Agreement" means, with respect to each Ground Lease, the Lessor Recognition and Estoppel Agreement by and among the applicable Borrower, ground lessor thereunder and fee mortgagee thereunder, if any, as amended, modified and in effect from time to time. "Ground Rent" means any rent, additional rent or other charge payable by the tenant under a Ground Lease. "Ground Rent Funds" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.10(b). "Ground Rent Escrow Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.10(a). "Guarantors" means, collectively, Trans Healthcare, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and each of its subsidiaries shown in the attached Schedule VIII and "Guarantor" shall mean each such entity. "Guaranty (Recourse Obligations)" means that certain Guaranty of Recourse Obligations of even date herewith from Guarantors for the benefit of Lender. "Improvements" has the meaning set forth in the Granting Clause of the Mortgages. 9
"Indebtedness" means, for any Person, without duplication: (i) all indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money, for amounts drawn under a letter of credit, or for the deferred purchase price of property for which such Person or its assets is liable, (ii) all unfunded amounts under a loan agreement, letter of credit, or other credit facility for which such Person would be liable if such amounts were advanced thereunder, (iii) all amounts required to be paid by such Person as a guaranteed payment to partners or a preferred or special dividend, including any mandatory redemption of shares or interests, (iv) all Indebtedness of others guaranteed by such Person, directly or indirectly, (v) all obligations under leases that constitute capital leases for which such Person is liable, and (vi) all obligations of such Person under interest rate swaps, caps, floors, collars and other interest hedge agreements, in each case whether such Person is liable contingently or otherwise, as obligor, guarantor or otherwise, or in respect of which obligations such Person otherwise assures a creditor against loss. "Indemnified Liabilities" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.13(b). "Independent Director" means a duly appointed member of the board of directors (or with respect to a Single Member LLC, its board of managers) of the relevant entity who shall not have been, at the time of such appointment or at any time while serving as a director of the relevant entity and may not have been at any time in the preceding five (5) years, (a) a direct or indirect legal or beneficial owner in such entity or any of its affiliates, (b) a creditor, supplier, employee, officer, director, family member, manager, or contractor of such entity or any of its affiliates, or (c) a person who controls (whether directly, indirectly, or otherwise) such entity or its affiliates or any creditor, supplier, employee, officer, director, manager, or contractor of such entity or its affiliates. "Insurance Premiums" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.1.1(b). "Interest Accrual Period" means, subject to the proviso in the definition of the defined term "Payment Date," each period of time running from and including the fifteenth (15th) day of a calendar month to and including the fourteenth (14th) day of the following calendar month during the term of the Loan. If the Closing Date shall occur prior to the fifteenth (15th) day of a calendar month, the first Interest Accrual Period shall commence on and include the Closing Date and end on and include the fourteenth (14th) day of the calendar month in which the Closing Date occurs. If the Closing Date shall occur after the fourteenth (14th) day of a calendar month, the first Interest Accrual Period shall commence on the Closing Date and end on and include the fourteenth (14th) day of the calendar month following the month in which the Closing Date occurs. If the Closing Date shall occur on the fourteenth (14th) day of a calendar month, the first Interest Accrual Period shall consist of a one (1) day period consisting of the Closing Date. "Interest Rate" means a rate per annum equal to seventeen percent (17%). "Inventory" means all "inventory," as such term is defined in the UCC and, to the extent not included in such definition, any goods now owned or hereafter acquired by any Borrower intended for sale or lease, or to be used in connection with services furnished by any Borrower in connection with any Mezzanine Property, including without limitation, all 10
inventories held by each Borrower for sale or use at or from any Mezzanine Property, and all other such goods, wares, merchandise, and materials and supplies of every nature owned by any Borrower and all such other goods returned to or repossessed by any Borrower. "Kent Ground Lease" means that certain Amended and Restated Lease Agreement dated June 21, 1989 by and between Health Care Reit, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Kent Ground Lessor") and Northwestern Service Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Kent Original Lessee"), as assigned pursuant to the Assignment and Landlord's Consent and Estoppel Certificate dated May 31, 2000 among Kent Ground Lessor, Providence Health Care, Inc., a Delaware corporation (successor to Kent Original Lessee) and Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as further assigned to the applicable Borrower, as amended, modified and in effect from time to time. "Lease" means any lease, sublease, sub-sublease or other agreement or arrangement affecting the use or occupancy of all or any portion of any Property (other than any Ground Lease) now in effect or hereafter entered into (including, without limitation, any patient admission and resident care agreement, letting, sublease, license, concession, tenancy or other occupancy agreement covering or encumbering all or any portion of such Property), together with any guarantee, supplement, amendment, modification, extension or renewal of the same, and any additional remainder, reversion, or other right and estate appurtenant thereto. "Leasehold Property Borrowers" and "Leasehold Property Borrower" each has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Legal Requirements" means, with respect to each Borrower, each Mortgage Borrower and each Property, all federal, state, county, municipal and other governmental statutes, laws, rules, orders, regulations, guidelines, ordinances, judgments, decrees and injunctions of Governmental Authorities affecting such Borrower, such Mortgage Borrower or such Property or any part thereof or the construction, use, alteration or operation thereof, or any part thereof, whether now or hereafter enacted and in force, including, without limitation, (i) the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, (ii) all zoning, subdivision and land use laws, regulations and ordinances, health, fire, building codes and parking laws, (iii) skilled nursing facility, residential care, personal care, adult care, boarding home and/or assisted living facility laws, rules, regulations and guidelines, including, without limitation, Medicare Regulations and Medicaid Regulations and (iv) any licensure requirements or certification requirements under applicable federal and/or state cost reimbursement programs, including, without limitation, Medicare and Medicaid, and all permits, licenses and authorizations and regulations relating thereto, and all covenants, agreements, restrictions and encumbrances contained in any instruments, either of record or known to any Borrower or any Mortgage Borrower, at any time in force affecting such Property or any part thereof, including, without limitation, any which may (i) require repairs, modifications or alterations in or to such Property or any part thereof, or (ii) in any way limit the use and enjoyment thereof. "Lender" means Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, together with its successors and assigns. 11
"Lender Indemnities" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.13(b). "Letter of Credit" means a clean, irrevocable, unconditional, transferable evergreen letter of credit with respect to which no Borrower has any reimbursement obligation, payable on sight draft only, in favor of Lender and entitling Lender to draw thereon in New York, New York, issued by an Eligible Institution. A Letter of Credit must expressly provide that (i) partial draws are permitted thereunder, (ii) it is freely transferable to any successor or assign of Lender without cost, and (iii) Lender is entitled to draw on it immediately and without further notice (a) upon the occurrence and during the continuance of a Default or Event of Default, (b) if any Borrower fails to deliver to Lender, no less than thirty (30) days prior to the termination of a Letter of Credit (including any renewal or extension thereof), a renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit or a replacement Letter of Credit, or (c) if the issuing bank is no longer an Eligible Institution and Borrowers fail to deliver to Lender a replacement Letter of Credit within ten (10) days of the date that the issuing bank is no longer an Eligible Institution. "Liabilities" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(b). "Lien" means, with respect to each Property, any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, security interest, or any other encumbrance, charge or transfer of, on or affecting such Property or any portion thereof or any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower or any interest therein, including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, the filing of any financing statement, and mechanic's, materialmen's and other similar liens and encumbrances. "Liquidation Event" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.2(b). "Loan" means the loan made by Lender to Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement. "Loan Amount" shall mean the outstanding principal balance of the Loan, as the same may be increased or decreased as a result of the Re-sizing, prepayment or otherwise from time to time. "Loan Documents" means, collectively, this Agreement, the Note, the Pledge Agreement, the Master Guaranty Pledge, the Mortgages, the Assignments of Leases, the Mezzanine Cash Management Agreement, the Mezzanine Collection Account Agreement, the Master Guaranty, the Environmental Indemnity, the Assignment of Management Agreement and any other document pertaining to the Mezzanine Properties as well as all other documents now or hereafter executed and/or delivered in connection with the Loan as such documents may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Lockout Date" means the date that is eighteen (18) months after the Re-sizing Date. 12
"Management Agreement" means the Management Services Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Property Borrowers, each as owner, and the Manager, as manager, pursuant to which such manager is to provide management and other services with respect to all of the Properties. "Manager" means Trans Health Management, Inc., a Delaware corporation , in its capacity as manager under the Management Agreement, or its successors or permitted assigns thereunder. "Maryland Property Borrowers" means each of the Borrowers that owns a Property in the State of Maryland. "Maryland I Equity Borrower" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Maryland I Pledged Company Interests" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Maryland II Equity Borrower" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Maryland II Pledged Company Interests" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Maryland Staff Leasing Agreement" means the Staff Leasing Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Maryland Property Borrowers, each as owner, and the Maryland Staff Provider, as the staff provider, pursuant to which the Maryland Staff Provider is to provide personnel for all of the Mezzanine Properties located in the State of Maryland. "Maryland Staff Provider" means THI Services of Maryland, Inc., a Delaware corporation. "Master Guaranty" means that certain Master Guaranty, dated as of the date hereof, from the Guarantors to Lender, Mortgage Lender and Sale/Leaseback Lessor, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Master Guaranty Pledge" means that certain Guarantor Pledge and Security Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, from the Guarantors to Lender, Mortgage Lender and Sale/Leaseback Lessor, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Material Adverse Effect" means a material adverse effect upon (i) the ability of any Borrower or any Mortgage Borrower to perform, or of Lender or Mortgage Lender to enforce, any material provision of any Loan Document or Mortgage Loan Document, (ii) the enforceability of any material provision of any Loan Document or Mortgage Loan Document, or 13
(iii) the value, Net Operating Income (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement), use or enjoyment of any Property or the operation thereof. In determining whether any individual event would result in a Material Adverse Effect, notwithstanding that such event does not of itself have such effect, a Material Adverse Effect shall be deemed to have occurred if the cumulative effect of such event and all other then occurring events and existing conditions would result in a Material Adverse Effect. "Material Agreement" means each contract or agreement relating to the ownership, management, development, use, operation, leasing maintenance, repair or improvement of a Mezzanine Property, or otherwise imposing obligations on a Borrower, under which a Borrower would have the obligation to pay more than $50,000 per annum or which cannot be terminated by a Borrower without cause upon ninety (90) days notice or less without the payment of a termination fee. "Maturity Date" means November 15, 2005 or such other date on which the final payment of principal of the Note becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at such stated maturity date, by declaration of acceleration, or otherwise. At Lender's option, the Maturity Date may be changed from November 15, 2005 to the Re-sizing Maturity Date in accordance with the Cooperation Agreement. "Maximum Legal Rate" means the maximum nonusurious interest rate, if any, that at any time or from time to time may be contracted for, taken, reserved, charged or received on the indebtedness evidenced by the Note and as provided for herein or the other Loan Documents, under the laws of such state or states whose laws are held by any court of competent jurisdiction to govern the interest rate provisions of the Loan. "Medicaid" means that certain program of medical assistance, funded jointly by the federal government and the states for impoverished individuals who are aged, blind and/or disabled, and for members of families with dependent children, which program is more fully described in Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. "Medicaid Certification" means, with respect to any Person, health care facility, or Nursing Facility, certification by CMS or a state agency or entity under contract with CMS that such Person, facility or Nursing Facility, as applicable, complies with the conditions of participation set forth in Medicaid Regulations or any similar certification issued by CMS or a state agency. "Medicaid Regulations" means, collectively, (i) all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (s)(s) 1396 et seq.) or elsewhere) affecting the medical assistance program established by Title XIX of the Social Security Act; (ii) all applicable provisions of all federal rules, regulations, manuals, orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities (whether or not having the force of law) promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (i) above; (iii) all state statutes enacted and all state plans for medical assistance, and state plan 14
amendments filed by the state with CMS in connection with the statutes and provisions described in clauses (i) and (ii) above; and (iv) all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals, orders and administrative, reimbursement, and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities (whether or not having the force of law) promulgated pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing, in each case as may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Medicare" means that certain federal program providing health insurance for eligible elderly and other individuals, under which physicians, hospitals, Nursing Facilities, home health care and other providers are reimbursed for certain covered services they provide to the beneficiaries of such program, which program is more fully described in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (s)(s) 1395 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. "Medicare Certification" means, with respect to any Person, health care facility, or Nursing Facility, certification by CMS or a state agency or entity under contract with CMS that such Person, facility or Nursing Facility, as applicable, complies with the conditions of participation set forth in Medicare Regulations or any similar certification issued by CMS or a state agency. "Medicare Regulations" means, collectively, all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (s)(s) 1395 et seq.) or elsewhere) affecting the health insurance program for the aged and disabled established by Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, together with all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals, orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities promulgated pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing (whether or not having the force of law), as each may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Mezzanine Cash Management Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(a). "Mezzanine Cash Management Agreement" means that certain Mezzanine Cash Management Agreement of even date herewith among Lender, Mortgage Lender, Borrowers, Mortgage Borrowers and Mezzanine Cash Management Bank, as the same may from time to time be modified, amended or replaced. "Mezzanine Cash Management Bank" means The Bank of New York, a New York State banking institution, and any other Eligible Institution from time to time selected in accordance with Section 6.1(c). "Mezzanine Cash Management Event" means at any time the Debt Service Coverage Ratio falls below 1.20:1.00. "Mezzanine Cash Management Period" means the period of time commencing on the occurrence of a Cash Management Event and ending on the Payment Date following the date that the Debt Service Coverage Ratio is at or above 1.20:1.00 for two (2) consecutive quarters. 15
"Mezzannine Collection Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1. "Mezzanine Collection Account Agreement" means that certain Mezzanine Collection Account Agreement of even date herewith among Lender, Borrowers and Mezzanine Collection Account Bank, as the same may from time to time be modified, amended or replaced. "Mezzanine Collection Account Bank" means First Union National Bank, or any other Eligible Institution from time to time selected in accordance with Section 6.1(c). "Mezzanine Property" means each parcel of real property, the Improvements thereon and all personal property owned by any Property Borrower and encumbered by a Mortgage, together with all rights pertaining to such property and Improvements, all as more particularly described in the Granting Clauses of such Mortgage, and "Mezzanine Properties" means all such parcels and other properties collectively. "Monthly Capital Expenditure Reserve Amount" means $14,500. "Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. "Mortgage" means, with respect to each Mezzanine Property, a first priority Open-Ended Fee Mortgage and Security Agreement or a first priority Open-Ended Leasehold Mortgage and Security Agreement, or similar security instrument, dated the date hereof, executed and delivered by a Property Borrower as security for the Loan and encumbering such Mezzanine Property, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and "Mortgages" means all such instruments collectively. "Mortgage Borrowers" and "Mortgage Borrower" each has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Mortgage Borrower Company Agreement" means, with respect to each Mortgage Borrower, the operating agreement of such Mortgage Borrower, dated as of the date hereof, by the related Borrower. "Mortgage Cash Management Account" means that certain cash management account established pursuant to the terms of the Mortgage Loan Agreement. "Mortgage Cash Management Period" means the "Cash Management Period" as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement. "Mortgage Debt Service" means, with respect to any particular period of time, scheduled principal and interest payments under the Mortgage Loan. "Mortgage Lender " has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Mortgage Loan" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. 16
"Mortgage Loan Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Mortgage Loan Documents" has the meaning set forth in the Mortgage Loan Agreement under the term, "Loan Documents". "Mortgage Payment Date" means the "Payment Date" as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement. "Mortgage Properties" and "Mortgage Property" each has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Net Liquidation Proceeds After Debt Service" means, with respect to any Liquidation Event, all amounts paid to or received by or on behalf of any Mortgage Borrower in connection with such Liquidation Event, including, without limitation, proceeds of any sale, refinancing or other disposition or liquidation, less (i) Lender's reasonable costs incurred in connection there recovery thereof, (ii) the costs incurred by any Mortgage Borrower in connection with a restoration of the Property made in accordance with the Mortgage Loan Documents, (iii) amounts required or permitted to be deducted therefrom and amounts paid pursuant to the Mortgage Loan Documents to Mortgage Lender, (iv) in the case of a foreclosure sale, disposition or transfer of the Property in connection with realization thereon following an Event of Default under the Mortgage Loan, such reasonable and customary costs and expenses of sale or other disposition (including attorneys' fees and brokerage commissions), (v) in the case of a foreclosure sale, such costs and expenses incurred by Mortgage Lender under the Mortgage Loan Documents as Mortgage Lender shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for under the terms of the Mortgage Loan Documents and (vi) in the case of a refinancing of the Mortgage Loan, such costs and expenses (including attorneys' fees) of such refinancing as shall be reasonably approved by Lender. "Net Operating Income" means, for any period, the amount by which Operating Income exceed Operating Expenses. "Net Proceeds" means: (i) the net amount of all insurance proceeds payable as a result of a Casualty to a Property, after deduction of reasonable costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees), if any, in collecting such insurance proceeds and taxes, if any, payable by a Borrower with respect to such proceeds, or (ii) the net amount of the Award, after deduction of reasonable costs and expenses (including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees), if any, in collecting such Award and taxes, if any, payable by a Borrower with respect to such proceeds. "Net Proceeds Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.8(a). "Net Proceeds Deficiency" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3.2(f). "Note" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.1.3. 17
"Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.6. "Nursing Facility" means a facility (including any Alzheimer's or dementia care unit of sub acute unit), which offers nonacute inpatient care to patients who suffer from a disease, chronic illness, or disability requiring nursing care without continuous hospital services, and who require medical services and nursing services rendered by or under the supervision of a licensed medical professional, together with convalescent or restorative services now or hereafter located on a Property. "Officer's Certificate" means a certificate delivered to Lender by a Borrower which is signed by an authorized senior officer of such Borrower. "Ohio Equity Borrower" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Ohio Property Borrowers" means, collectively, THI of Ohio ALFs I, LLC, THI of Ohio at Berea, LLC, THI of Ohio at Cortland, LLC and THI of Ohio at Kent, LLC. "Ohio Pledged Company Interests" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Ohio Staff Leasing Agreement" means the Staff Leasing Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, between the Ohio Property Borrowers, each as owner, and the Ohio Staff Provider, as the staff provider, pursuant to which the Ohio Staff Provider is to provide personnel for all of the Mezzanine Properties located in the State of Maryland. "Ohio Staff Provider" means THI Services Corp., a Delaware corporation. "Operating Expense Reserve Account" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.5(a). "Operating Expenses" means, with respect to a Property (or the Properties) and without duplication, all costs and expenses incurred by a Borrower or Mortgage Borrower determined on an accrual basis, relating to the operation, maintenance, repair, use and management of such Property (or the Properties), including, without limitation, utilities, repairs and maintenance, insurance, property taxes and assessments, advertising expenses, payroll and related taxes, equipment lease payments, actual management fees but excluding (i) rent payments made by any Borrower under a Ground Lease and principal, interest and other payments made by a Borrower or Mortgage Borrower under the Loan Documents or the Mortgage Loan Documents, (ii) depreciation, amortization and other non-cash expenses of the Properties; provided, however, such costs and expenses shall be subject to reasonable adjustment by Lender to normalize such costs and expenses and (iii) capital expenditures. "Operating Income" means, without duplication, all revenue derived from the ownership and/or operation of a Property (or Properties) by any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower 18
from whatever source determined on an accrual basis, including, but not limited to, (i) Rents, including, but not limited to, Patient Revenues (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) received by any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower or by any subtenant or licensee which is an Affiliate of any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower (but excluding any revenues received by any subtenant or licensee which is not an Affiliate of any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower) and (ii) Rents received by any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower from any subtenant or licensee which is not an Affiliate of any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower (but excluding any rents received from any subtenant or licensee which is an Affiliate of any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower); but excluding (a) sales, use and occupancy or other taxes on receipts required to be accounted for by any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower to any governmental authority, (b) non-recurring revenues as reasonably determined by Lender (e.g. proceeds from a sale of assets or refinancing), (c) security deposits (except to the extent determined by Lender to be properly utilized to offset a loss of rent received by any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower), (d) proceeds of casualty insurance and condemnation awards (other than business interruption or other loss of income insurance related to business interruption or loss of income for the period in question) and (e) any proceeds from the sale or refinancing of any Property or recapitalization of any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower. In addition, if required by Lender, income accrued but not paid in cash during an accounting period shall be adjusted for an allowance for doubtful accounts in a manner consistent with historical net realizable value. "Organizational Documents" means, as to any Person, the certificate of incorporation and by-laws with respect to a corporation; the certificate of organization and operating agreement with respect to a limited liability company; the certificate of limited partnership and partnership agreement with respect to a limited partnership, or any other organizational or governing documents of such Person. "Other Charges" means all ground rents, maintenance charges, impositions other than Taxes, and any other charges, including, without limitation, vault charges and license fees for the use of vaults, chutes and similar areas adjoining the Mezzanine Properties, now or hereafter levied or assessed or imposed against the Mezzanine Properties or any part thereof. "Parent" means Trans Healthcare, Inc., a Delaware corporation. "Patient Revenues" means revenues generated from the sale of goods or services at or through the Properties, whether by a Borrower or any subtenant or licensee of such Borrower, or any other party, which revenues are primarily derived from services provided to patients (including, without limitation, revenues received or receivable for the use of or otherwise by reason of all rooms, beds and other facilities provided, meals served, services performed or goods sold at the Mezzanine Properties), including but not limited to, Self-Pay Receivables and all other income, consideration, issues, accounts, profits or benefits of any nature arising from the ownership, possession, use or operation of such Mezzanine Property, including, without limitation, all rights to payment from the Medicare and Medicaid programs or similar state or federal programs, boards, bureaus or agencies (to the extent legally assignable under applicable law) and rights to payment from patients or private insurers, arising from the 19
operation of such Mezzanine Property and all revenues, receipts, income, receivables and accounts relating to or arising from rentals, rent equivalent income, income and profits from guest rooms, meeting rooms, food and beverage facilities, vending machines, telephone and television systems, guest laundry, and the provision or sale of other goods and services. "Payment Date" means the fifteenth (15th) day of every calendar month occurring during the term of the Loan; provided, however, in connection with a Securitization of the Loan, Lender may change the Payment Date. Each Borrower shall promptly execute an amendment to this Agreement to evidence any such change. "Payor Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.1(b). "Permitted Debt" means as to a Mezzanine Property (x) (i) unsecured trade payables incurred in the ordinary course of business relating to the ownership and operation of such Mezzanine Property which are paid within ninety (90) days of the date incurred and (ii) financing of Equipment or vehicles used in the ordinary course of operating and owning a Mezzanine Property (including capitalized leases of such Equipment and vehicles) and (y) which unsecured trade payables and financing do not exceed at any one time an aggregate amount as to all Borrowers and their Properties on an aggregate basis of any AR Financing, if any, entered into in accordance with Section 4.2.12 hereof. "Permitted Encumbrances" means, with respect to each Mezzanine Property, collectively, (i) the Liens and security interests created by the Loan Documents, (ii) all Liens, encumbrances and other matters disclosed in the Title Insurance Policies relating to such Mezzanine Property or any part thereof, (iii) Liens, if any, for Taxes with respect to such Mezzanine Property imposed by any Governmental Authority not yet due or delinquent, (iv) such other title and survey exceptions as Lender has approved or may approve in writing in Lender's sole discretion, none of which adversely affect the use, value or operation of such Mezzanine Property, (v) Liens on the Equipment or vehicles used in the ordinary course of business of operating and owning such Mezzanine Property which are the subject of a financing of such Equipment or vehicles (including capitalized leases of such Equipment or vehicles) which financing complies with the terms of the definition of the term "Permitted Debt," and (vi) the Leases consisting of Borrower's standard form patient admission and resident care agreements. "Permitted Investments" has the meaning set forth in the Cash Management Agreement. "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, unincorporated association, any other entity, any federal, state, county or municipal government or any bureau, department or agency thereof and any fiduciary acting in such capacity on behalf of any of the foregoing. "Physical Plant Standards" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.40(g). 20
"Pledge Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Pledged Company Interests" has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Policies" has the meaning specified in Section 5.1.1(b). "Prepayment Notice" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.4.1. "Prepayment Premium" means an amount equal to the sum of (a) the present value of the interest payments which would have accrued on the principal balance of the Loan (outstanding as of the date of such prepayment) at the Interest Rate from the date of such prepayment up to and including the day on which any prepayment of the loan is, discounted at a rate equal to the Treasury Rate plus (b) fifty (50) basis points. "Pro Forma Net Operating Income" means with respect to a Property, Net Operating Income for any period for such Property adjusted as follows: (i) if the actual occupancy percentage of such Property is greater than ninety-five percent (95%), Operating Income for such Property shall be reduced by the product of (1) the difference between the actual occupancy percentage of such Property and ninety-five percent (95%) times (2) the Operating Income for such Property, (ii) Operating Income for such Property shall be reduced by (x) a bad debt expense for such Property equal to the greater of (A) the actual bad debt expense and (B) six-tenths of one percent (0.6%) of Operating Income for such Property for such period (after deducting the vacancy factor as calculated above, if any); (y) a management fee for such Property equal to the greater of (A) the actual management fee and (B) five percent (5%) of Operating Income for such Property for such period (after deducting any vacancy factor and for bad debt expenses as calculated above, as applicable); (z) a reserve for Capital Expenditures (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) equal to $300 per annum per licensed bed at each Property consisting of a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility and for each Property which does not constitute a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility such per bed per annum amount as reasonably determined by the Lender; provided, however, that Lender may further adjust Pro Forma Net Operating Income as Lender deems reasonably necessary based upon the occurrence of tangible events that Lender reasonably determines may have a material effect on any Borrower or Property. "Property" means, any Mortgage Property or any Mezzanine Property and "Properties" means, collectively, the Mortgage Properties and the Mezzanine Properties. "Property Borrowers" and "Property Borrower" each has the meaning set forth in the recitals of this Agreement. "Rating Agencies" means, prior to the final Securitization of the Loan, each of S&P, Moody's and Fitch or any other nationally-recognized statistical rating agency which has been designated by Lender and, after the final Securitization of the Loan, shall mean any of the foregoing that have rated any of the Securities. 21
"Rating Agency Confirmation" means a written affirmation from each of the Rating Agencies that the credit rating of the Securities rated by such Rating Agency immediately prior to the occurrence of the event with respect to which such Rating Agency Confirmation is sought will not be qualified, downgraded or withdrawn as a result of the occurrence of such event, which affirmation may be granted or withheld in such Rating Agency's sole and absolute discretion. "Re-sizing" has the meaning set forth in the Cooperation Agreement. "Re-sizing Date" means the earlier of (i) the Payment Date upon which the Re-sizing shall occur or (ii) February 15, 2003. "Re-sizing Maturity Date" means the date that is the third anniversary of the Re-sizing Date. "Registration Statement" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(b). "Regulatory Permits" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.40(b). "Reimbursement Contracts" means all third party reimbursement contracts for the Properties which are now or hereafter in effect with respect to residents or patients qualifying for coverage under the same, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance agreements, and any successor program or other similar reimbursement program and/or private insurance agreements. "Rents" means, with respect to each Property, (x) all receipts, rents (whether denoted as advance rent, minimum rent, percentage rent, additional rent or otherwise), issues, income, royalties, profits, revenues (including, without limitation, Patient Revenues (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) and Self-Pay Receivables (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement)), proceeds, bonuses, deposits (whether denoted as security deposits, utility deposits or otherwise), lease termination fees or payments, rejection damages, buy-out fees and any other fees made or to be made in lieu of rent, any award made hereafter to any Borrower or any Mortgage Borrower in any court proceeding involving any tenant, lessee, licensee or concessionaire under any of the Leases in any bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization proceedings in any state or federal court, and all other payments, rights and benefits of whatever nature from time to time due under any of the Leases, including, without limitation, rights to payment earned under the Leases for space in the Improvements for the operation of ongoing businesses, such as restaurants, news stands, barber shops, beauty shops and pharmacies; provided, however, "Rents" shall not include "patient trust accounts" or "patient needs funds." "Restoration" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2.1. "Restoration Threshold" means (a) with respect to any Mezzanine Property, the greater of (i) five percent (5%) of the Allocated Loan Amount for such Mezzanine Property or 22
(ii) $200,000 and (b) with respect to the Mezzanine Properties, two percent (2%) of the Loan Amount. "S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. "Sale/Leaseback Lessor" means Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, in its capacity as lessor under the Lease Documents (as defined in the Master Guaranty). "SAP Completion Date" has the meaning set forth in the Cooperation Agreement. "Secondary Market Transaction" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1(a). "Securities" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1(a). "Securities Act" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(a). "Securitization" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1(a). "Self-Pay Receivables" means those receivables whereby an individual or resident of a Mezzanine Property is the payor of such receivables. "Servicer" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.24. "Servicing Agreement" has the meaning set forth in Section 11.24. "Severed Loan Documents" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.2(c). "Single Member LLC" means a limited liability company that (i) is either (a) a single member limited liability company or (b) a multiple member limited liability company that does not have a Single-Purpose Entity that owns at least 1% of the equity interests in such limited liability company as its managing member, and (ii) is organized under the laws of the State of Delaware. "Single-Purpose Entity" means a corporation, limited partnership, or limited liability company which, at all times since its formation and thereafter (i) was and will be organized solely for the purpose of (x) owning or operating the applicable Property or Pledged Company Interests or (y) acting as the managing member of the limited liability company which owns or operates a Property or (z) acting as the general partner of a limited partnership which owns or operates a Property, (ii) has not and will not engage in any business unrelated to (x) the ownership or operation of the applicable Property or Pledged Company Interests or (y) acting as a member of a limited liability company which owns or operates such Property or (z) acting as a general partner of a limited partnership which owns or operates such Property, (iii) has not and will not have any assets other than (x) those related to the applicable Property or Pledged Company Interests or (y) its membership interest in the limited liability company which owns or 23
operates such Property or (z) its general partnership interest in the limited partnership which owns or operates such Property, as applicable, (iv) has not and will not engage in, seek or consent to any dissolution, winding up, liquidation, consolidation or merger, and, except as otherwise expressly permitted by this Agreement, has not and will not engage in, seek or consent to any asset sale, transfer of partnership or membership or shareholder interests, or amendment of its limited partnership agreement, articles of incorporation, articles of organization, certificate of formation or operating agreement (as applicable), (v) if such entity is a limited partnership, has and will have as its only general partners, general partners which are and will be Single-Purpose Entities which are corporations, (vi) if such entity is a corporation, at all relevant times, has and will have at least one Independent Director, (vii) the board of directors of such entity has not taken and will not take any action requiring the unanimous affirmative vote of one hundred percent (100%) of the members of the board of directors unless all of the directors, including without limitation the Independent Director, shall have participated in such vote, (viii) has not and will not fail to correct any known misunderstanding regarding the separate identity of such entity, (ix) if such entity is a limited liability company, is either a Single Member LLC or has and will have at least one member that is and will be a Single-Purpose Entity which is and will be a corporation, and such corporation is and will be the managing member of such limited liability company, (x) without the unanimous consent of all of the partners, directors or managers (including without limitation the Independent Director) or members, as applicable, has not and will not with respect to itself or to any other entity in which it has a direct or indirect legal or beneficial ownership interest (w) file a bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization petition or otherwise institute insolvency proceedings or otherwise seek any relief under any laws relating to the relief from debts or the protection of debtors generally; (x) seek or consent to the appointment of a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator, custodian or any similar official for such entity or all or any portion of such entity's properties; (y) make any assignment for the benefit of such entity's creditors; or (z) take any action that might cause such entity to become insolvent, (xi) has maintained and will maintain its accounts, books and records separate from any other person or entity (except that, for accounting and reporting purposes, each Borrower may be included in the consolidated financial statements of any equity owner of such Borrower in accordance with GAAP provided that such financials will contain detailed notes stating that such entity is a separate legal entity that owns its own assets and has creditors that have a security interest in such assets and that the applicable Property has been sold to such Borrower), (xii) has maintained and will maintain its books, records, resolutions and agreements as official records, (xiii) has not commingled and will not commingle its funds or assets with those of any other entity, (xiv) has held and will hold its assets in its own name, (xv) has conducted and will conduct its business in its name, (xvi) has maintained and will maintain its financial statements, accounting records and other entity documents separate from any other person or entity (except that, for accounting and reporting purposes, each Borrower may be included in the consolidated financial statements of any equity owner of such Borrower in accordance with GAAP), (xvii) has paid and will pay its own liabilities out of its own funds and assets, (xviii) has observed and will observe all partnership, corporate or limited liability company formalities as applicable, (xix) has maintained and will maintain an arms-length relationship with its affiliates, (xx) if (x) such entity owns or operates a Property, has and will have no Indebtedness other than (A) the Debt and (B) Permitted Debt, or (y) such entity acts as 24
the general partner of a limited partnership which owns or operates such Property, has and will have no indebtedness other than unsecured trade payables in the ordinary course of business relating to acting as general partner of the limited partnership which owns or operates such Property which (1) do not exceed, at any time, Ten Thousand Dollars ($10,000.00) and (2) are paid within ninety (90) days of the date incurred, or (z) such entity acts as a managing member of a limited liability company which owns or operates such Property, has and will have no indebtedness other than unsecured trade payables in the ordinary course of business relating to acting as a member of the limited liability company which owns or operates such Property which (1) do not exceed, at any time, Ten Thousand Dollars ( $10,000.00) and (2) are paid within ninety (90) days of the date incurred, (xxi) has not and will not assume or guarantee or become obligated for the debts of any other entity or hold out its credit as being available to satisfy the obligations of any other entity except for the Debt, (xxii) has not acquired and will not acquire obligations or securities of its partners, members or shareholders, (xxiii) has allocated and will allocate fairly and reasonably shared expenses, including, without limitation, shared office space and use separate stationery, invoices and checks and has and will maintain office space separate from any other entity (which may be a separately identified area in office space shared with one or more entity) and maintain a separate sign in the office directory, (xxiv) except for the Liens granted pursuant to the Loan Documents, has not and will not pledge its assets for the benefit of any other person or entity, (xxv) has held and identified itself and will hold itself out and identify itself as a separate and distinct legal entity under its own name and not as a division or part of any other person or entity so as not to mislead others with whom it is dealing (except that, for accounting and reporting purposes, each Borrower may be included in the consolidated financial statements of any equity owner of such Borrower in accordance with GAAP provided that such financials will contain detailed notes stating that such entity is a separate legal entity that owns its own assets and has creditors that have a security interest in such assets and that the applicable Property has been sold to such Borrower), (xxvi) has not made and will not make loans to any person or entity, (xxvii) has not and will not identify its partners, members or shareholders, or any affiliates of any of them as a division or part of it, (xxviii) if such entity is a limited liability company (other than a Single Member LLC), such entity shall dissolve only upon the bankruptcy of the managing member, and such entity's articles of organization, certificate of formation and/or operating agreement, as applicable, shall contain such provision, (xxiv) has not entered and will not enter into or be a party to, any transaction with its partners, members, shareholders or its affiliates except in the ordinary course of its business and on terms which are intrinsically fair and are no less favorable to it than would be obtained in a comparable arms-length transaction and on a commercially reasonably basis with an unrelated third party, (xxx) has paid and will pay the salaries of its own employees from its own funds and has and will maintain a sufficient number of employees in light of its contemplated business operations, (xxxi) has maintained and will maintain adequate capital in light of its contemplated business operations (xxxii) if such entity is a limited liability company (other than a Single Member LLC) or limited partnership, and such entity has one or more managing members or general partners, as applicable, then such entity shall continue (and not dissolve) for so long as a solvent managing member or general partner, as applicable, exists and such entity's organizational documents shall contain such provision; (xxxiii) if such entity is a Single Member LLC, its organizational documents shall provide that, as long as any portion of the Debt remains outstanding, upon the 25
occurrence of any event that causes the sole member of such Single Member LLC to cease to be a member of such Single Member LLC (other than (y) upon an assignment by such member of all of its limited liability company interest in such Single Member LLC and the admission of the transferee, if permitted pursuant to the organizational documents of such Single Member LLC and the Loan Documents, or (z) the resignation of such member and the admission of an additional member of such Single Member LLC, if permitted pursuant to the organizational documents of such Single Member LLC and the Loan Documents) at least one individual acting as an Independent Director of such Single Member LLC shall, without any action of any Person and simultaneously with the sole member of the Single Member LLC ceasing to be a member of the Single Member LLC, automatically be admitted as the sole member of the Single Member LLC (the "Special Member") and shall preserve and continue the existence of the Single Member LLC without dissolution; (xxxiv) if such entity is a Single Member LLC, its organizational documents shall provide that for so long as any Obligation is outstanding, no Special Member may resign or transfer its rights as Special Member unless (y) a successor Special Member has been admitted to such Single Member LLC as a Special Member, and (z) such successor Special Member has also accepted its appointment as an Independent Director and (xxxv) has and shall maintain its assets in a manner that will not be costly or difficult to segregate, ascertain or identify its individual assets for those of any other entity. "Special Member" has the meaning set forth in the definition of Single-Purpose Entity. "Specialty Hospital" means a facility that is operated as a special hospital for providing specialized services, including but not limited to rehabilitation services, on a in-patient basis. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Specialty Hospital" shall include "rehabilitation hospital" and "long-term acute care hospital" as those terms are defined under applicable Medicare Regulations. "Staff Leasing Agreement" means the Ohio Staff Leasing Agreement or the Maryland Staff Leasing Agreement, as the case may be. "Staff Provider" means the Ohio Staff Provider or the Maryland Staff Provider, as the case may be. "State" means, with respect to a Property, the State or Commonwealth in which such Property or any part thereof is located. "Tax and Insurance Escrow Account" has the meaning set forth in Section 6.3(a). "Taxes" means all real estate and personal property taxes, assessments, water rates or sewer rents, now or hereafter levied or assessed or imposed against any of the Mezzanine Properties or part thereof, together with all interest and penalties thereon. "Third Party Payor" means any state, federal or municipal boards, bureaus, corporations or agencies and any private commercial insurers remitting payments to any 26
Borrower pursuant to Medicare, Medicaid, Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield or other insurance, health plan, managed care or employee assistance programs. "Third Party Payor Programs" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.1.40(e). "Title Insurance Policy" means, with respect to each Property, an ALTA mortgagee title insurance policy in the form reasonably acceptable to Lender issued with respect to such Property and insuring the lien of the Mortgage encumbering such Property. "Transfer" means any voluntary or involuntary sale, conveyance, mortgage, grant, bargain, encumbrance, pledge, assignment, or transfer of: (a) all or any part of a Property or the Properties or the Collateral or any estate or interest therein including, but not be limited to, (i) an installment sales agreement wherein any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower agrees to sell a Property or the Properties or the Collateral or any part thereof for a price to be paid in installments, (ii) an agreement by any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower leasing all or a substantial part of a Property or the Properties, for other than actual occupancy by a tenant thereunder and its affiliates or (iii) a sale, assignment or other transfer of, or the grant of a security interest in, any Borrower's or Mortgage Borrower's right, title and interest in and to any Leases or any Rents; or (b) any ownership interest in (i) any Borrower, Mortgage Borrower or any Guarantor or (ii) any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust or other Person owning, directly or indirectly, any interest in any Borrower, Mortgage Borrower or any Guarantor. "Treasury Rate" means the yield calculated by the linear interpolation of yields, as reported in Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 - Selected Interest Rates under the heading U.S. Government Securities/Treasury constant maturities for the week ending prior to the date on which any prepayment of the Loan occurs, of U.S. Treasury constant maturities with maturity dates (one longer, one shorter) most nearly approximating the Maturity Date (and in the event H.15 is no longer published, Lender shall in its reasonable discretion select a comparable publication to determine the Treasury Rate). "Trustee" means any trustee holding the Loan in a Securitization. "UCC" or "Uniform Commercial Code" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State. "Underwriter Group" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(b). "Updated Information" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.1(b)(i). "U.S. Obligations" means direct full faith and credit obligations of the United States of America that are not subject to prepayment, call or early redemption. "Ventas Group" has the meaning set forth in Section 9.2(b). 27
Section 1.2. Principles of Construction. All references to sections and schedules are to sections and schedules in or to this Agreement unless otherwise specified. Unless otherwise specified, the words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import when used in this Agreement shall refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. Unless otherwise specified, all meanings attributed to defined terms herein shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the terms so defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronouns used herein shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns and pronouns shall include the plural and vice versa. ARTICLE II. THE LOAN Section 2.1. The Loan. 2.1.1. Agreement to Lend and Borrow. Subject to and upon the terms and conditions set forth herein, Lender shall make the Loan to Borrowers and Borrowers shall accept the Loan from Lender on the Closing Date. 2.1.2. Single Disbursement to Borrowers. Borrowers shall receive only one borrowing hereunder in respect of the Loan and any amount borrowed and repaid hereunder in respect of the Loan may not be reborrowed. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the parties acknowledge that the Loan Amount may be increased or decreased as a result of the Re-sizing. 2.1.3. The Note. The Loan shall be evidenced by that certain Promissory Note of even date herewith, in the original principal amount of Twenty-Two Million and No/100 Dollars ($22,000,000) executed by Borrowers and payable to the order of Lender in evidence of the Loan (as the same may hereafter be amended, supplemented, restated, componitized, split, increased, extended or consolidated, the "Note") and shall be repaid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Note. 2.1.4. Use of Proceeds. Borrowers shall use proceeds of the Loan to (i) make equity contributions to the Mortgage Borrowers in order to cause the Mortgage Borrowers to use such amounts for any use permitted pursuant to Section 2.1.4 of the Mortgage Loan Agreement, (ii) pay all past-due Basic Carrying Costs, if any, in respect of the Mezzanine Properties, (iii) deposit the initial required amounts into the Collateral Accounts, (iv) pay costs and expenses incurred in connection with the closing of the Loan, including, but not limited to, Lender's costs and expenses, all as approved by Lender, (v) fund any working capital requirements of the Mezzanine Properties, as approved by Lender and (vi) pay any recoupment of deposits or expenses in connection with the acquisition of any of the Mezzanine Properties or in any failed financing in the past nine (9) months. 28
Section 2.2. Interest Rate. 2.2.1. Interest Rate. Interest on the outstanding principal balance of the Loan shall accrue from the Closing Date up to but excluding the Maturity Date at the Interest Rate. 2.2.2. Default Rate. In the event that, and for so long as, any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the outstanding principal balance of the Loan and, to the extent permitted by law, overdue interest in respect of the Loan, shall accrue interest at the Default Rate, calculated from the date on which the default which gave rise to the Event of Default occurred without regard to any grace or cure periods contained herein. 2.2.3. Interest Calculation. Interest on the outstanding principal balance of the Loan shall be calculated by multiplying (a) the actual number of days elapsed in the applicable Interest Accrual Period by (b) a daily rate based on a three hundred sixty (360) day year (that is, the Interest Rate or the Default Rate, as the case may be, divided by three hundred sixty (360)) by (c) the outstanding principal balance. 2.2.4. Usury Savings. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents are subject to the express condition that at no time shall Borrowers be required to pay interest on the principal balance of the Loan at a rate which could subject Lender to either civil or criminal liability as a result of being in excess of the Maximum Legal Rate. If by the terms of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, any Borrower is at any time required or obligated to pay interest on the principal balance due hereunder at a rate in excess of the Maximum Legal Rate, the Interest Rate or the Default Rate, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be immediately reduced to the Maximum Legal Rate and all previous payments in excess of the Maximum Legal Rate shall be deemed to have been payments in reduction of principal and not on account of the interest due hereunder. All sums paid or agreed to be paid to Lender for the use, forbearance, or detention of the sums due under the Loan, shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, be amortized, prorated, allocated, and spread throughout the full stated term of the Loan until payment in full so that the rate or amount of interest on account of the Loan does not exceed the Maximum Legal Rate from time to time in effect and applicable to the Loan for so long as the Loan is outstanding. Section 2.3. Loan Payments. 2.3.1. Payment Before Maturity Date. Borrowers shall make a payment to Lender of interest only on the Closing Date for the period from the Closing Date through the last day of the Interest Accrual Period in which the Closing Date occurs (unless the Closing Date is the fifteenth (15th) day of a calendar month, in which case no such separate payment of interest shall be due) (the "Stub Interest Payment"). Notwithstanding the foregoing, Lender will waive the requirement of payment of the Stub Interest Payment on the Closing Date and the Borrowers hereby agree and covenant to pay the Stub Interest Payment on November 15, 2002. Borrowers shall make a payment to Lender of monthly Debt Service on the Payment Date occurring in December, 2002 and on each Payment Date thereafter to and including the Maturity 29
Date. Each payment shall be applied first to accrued and unpaid interest and the balance to principal. The monthly Debt Service required hereunder is based upon a twenty-five (25) year amortization schedule attached hereto as Schedule VI. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Re-sizing or adjustment in the Loan Amount shall have occurred pursuant to the Cooperation Agreement, Borrowers shall make a payment of principal to Lender in the amount set forth on any replacement amortization schedule hereafter delivered in connection with such Re-sizing or adjustment. All payments to Lender by Borrowers under this Loan Agreement shall be made by wire transfer of funds to an account designated by Lender. 2.3.2. Payment on Maturity Date. Borrowers shall pay to Lender on the Maturity Date the outstanding principal balance of the Loan, all accrued and unpaid interest and all other amounts due hereunder and under the Note, the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents. 2.3.3. Late Payment Charge. If any principal, interest or any other sum due under the Loan Documents (excluding the principal payment due on the Maturity Date) is not paid by any Borrower on the date on which it is due, Borrowers shall pay to Lender upon demand an amount equal to the lesser of five percent (5%) of such unpaid sum or the maximum amount permitted by applicable law in order to defray the expense incurred by Lender in handling and processing such delinquent payment and to compensate Lender for the loss of the use of such delinquent payment. Any such amount shall be secured by the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents. 2.3.4. Method and Place of Payment. (a) Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, all payments and prepayments under this Agreement and the Note shall be made to Lender or Lender's designee not later than 11:00 A.M., New York City time, on the date when due and shall be made in lawful money of the United States of America in immediately available funds at Lender's office or such other place as Lender shall direct, and any funds received by Lender after such time shall, for all purposes hereof, be deemed to have been paid on the next succeeding Business Day. (b) Whenever any payment to be made hereunder or under any other Loan Document shall be stated to be due on a day which is not a Business Day, the due date thereof shall be the preceding Business Day. (c) All payments required to be made by Borrowers hereunder or under the Note or the other Loan Documents shall be made irrespective of, and without deduction for, any setoff, claim or counterclaim and shall be made irrespective of any defense thereto. Section 2.4. Prepayments. 2.4.1. Voluntary Prepayments. Except as otherwise provided herein, no Borrower shall have the right to prepay the Loan in whole or in part prior to the Lockout Date. 30
Beginning on the Lockout Date or on any Business Day thereafter, any Borrower may, at its option, prepay the Debt in whole, but not in part. Any prepayment made on or after the Lockout Date shall be accompanied by the Prepayment Premium. In addition, if any Borrower prepays the Loan on any date other than a Payment Date, Borrowers shall pay to Lender on the date of such prepayment an amount equal to the interest that would have accrued on the Loan through the next Payment Date. As a condition to any voluntary prepayment, (i) each Borrower shall give Lender written notice (a "Prepayment Notice") of its intent to prepay, which notice must be given not later than thirty (30) days prior to the date on which such prepayment is to be made and must specify the Business Day on which such prepayment is to be made and (ii) if Lender shall hold any interest in the Mortgage Loan at the time of such voluntary prepayment, each Borrower shall simultaneously prepay the Mortgage Loan, together with any Prepayment Premium or other fees in connection therewith. 2.4.2. Mandatory Prepayments/Liquidation Events. (a) On each date on which Lender actually receives a distribution of Net Proceeds, and if Lender does not make such Net Proceeds available to any Property Borrower for a Restoration of the applicable Mezzanine Property, Borrowers shall, at Lender's option, prepay the outstanding principal balance of the Note in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of such Net Proceeds together with interest that would have accrued on such amounts through the next Payment Date. The Allocated Loan Amount with respect to such Mezzanine Property will be reduced in an amount equal to such prepayment. No Prepayment Premium shall be due in connection with any prepayment made pursuant to this Section 2.4.2(a). Any prepayment received by Lender pursuant to this Section 2.4.2(a) on a date other than a Payment Date shall be held by Lender as collateral security for the Loan in the Net Proceeds Account, and shall be applied by Lender on the next Payment Date. (b) In the event, prior to a Securitization, the equity holders of the Parent propose a Change of Control (as defined in the Master Guaranty) to the Parent, as a condition to such Change of Control, in connection with the mandatory prepayment of the Loan as set forth in Section 2.4.2(d) of the Loan, Borrowers shall prepay the entire outstanding principal balance of the Loan together with interest that would have accrued on the principal balance of the Mortgage Loan through the next Payment Date (in the event the prepayment occurs on a date other than a Payment Date plus the Prepayment Fee. (c) Borrowers shall notify Lender of any Liquidation Event not later than one (1) Business Day following the first date on which any Borrower has knowledge of such event. Borrowers shall be deemed to have knowledge of (i) a sale (other than a foreclosure sale) of any Mortgage Property on the date on which a contract of sale for such sale is entered into, and a foreclosure sale, on the date notice of such foreclosure sale is given, and (ii) a refinancing of any Mortgage Property, on the date on which a commitment for such refinancing has been entered into. The provisions of this Section 2.4.2(c) shall not be construed to contravene in any manner the restrictions and other provisions regarding refinancing of the 31
Mortgage Loan or transfer of any Property set forth in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. (d) In the event there is a proposed Change of Control (as defined in the Master Guaranty) to the Parent which the equity owners of the Parent desire to effect, as a condition to such Change of Control, (i) Borrowers shall prepay the entire outstanding principal balance of the Loan as a condition to such Change of Control together with interest that would have accrued on the principal balance of the Loan through the next Payment Date (in the event the prepayment occurs on a date other than a Payment Date) plus the Prepayment Premium and (ii) (a) prior to a Securitization of the Mortgage Loan, the Mortgage Borrowers shall prepay the entire outstanding principal balance of the Mortgage Loan together with interest that would have accrued on the principal balance of the Mortgage Loan through the next Payment Date (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) (in the event the prepayment occurs on a date other than a Payment Date (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement)) plus the Prepayment Fee (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) and (b) after a Securitization, the terms of 8.2(b) of the Mortgage Loan shall be satisfied. 2.4.3. Prepayments After Default. If after an Event of Default, payment of all or any part of the principal of the Loan is tendered by any Borrower, a purchaser at foreclosure or any other Person, such tender shall be deemed an attempt to circumvent the prohibition against prepayment set forth in Section 2.4.1 and Borrowers, such purchaser at foreclosure or other Person shall pay the Prepayment Premium, in addition to the outstanding principal balance, all accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts payable under the Loan Documents. Section 2.5 Supplemental Mortgage Affidavits. The Liens created by each Mortgage are intended to encumber the Mezzanine Property described therein to the full extent of Borrowers' obligations under the Loan Documents. As of the Closing Date, Borrowers shall have paid all state, county and municipal recording and all other taxes imposed upon the execution and recordation of the Mortgages. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, if at any time Lender determines, based on Lender's estimation of market value and applicable law, that Lender is not being afforded the maximum amount of security available from any Mezzanine Property as a direct, or indirect, result of applicable taxes not having been paid with respect to the related Mortgage, Lender may request, and each Borrower agrees that it (i) will execute, acknowledge and deliver to Lender, within a reasonable period of time after Lender's request, supplemental affidavits increasing the amount of Indebtedness for which all applicable taxes have been or are required to be paid under the related Mortgage to an amount determined by Lender, in its reasonable discretion, to be appropriate and (ii) will pay any and all applicable recording, intangible or similar taxes. 32
ARTICLE III. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES Section 3.1. Borrower Representations. Each Borrower represents and warrants that: 3.1.1. Organization. Each Borrower is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing with full power and authority to own its assets and conduct its business, and is duly qualified in all jurisdictions in which the ownership or lease of its property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification. Each Borrower has taken all necessary action to authorize the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents by it, and has the full power and authority to execute, deliver and perform under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents and all the transactions contemplated hereby. Each Borrower's exact and correct legal name as it appears on file with the Secretary of State of Delaware is as set forth in Schedule III attached hereto. Each Borrower is a limited liability company organized under the laws of the State of Delaware. Each Borrower's organization identification number assigned by the state of its organization is as set forth opposite such Borrower's name on Schedule III. Borrower's federal tax identification number is as set forth opposite such Borrower's name on Schedule III. 3.1.2. Proceedings. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by each Borrower and, as applicable, each Guarantor and constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of each Borrower and, as applicable, each Guarantor, enforceable against each Borrower and, as applicable, each Guarantor in accordance with their respective terms, except as such enforcement may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally, and by general principles of equity (regardless of whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding in equity or at law). 3.1.3. No Conflicts. The execution and delivery of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents by each Borrower and, as applicable, each Guarantor, and the performance of its obligations hereunder and thereunder will not conflict with or violate any provision of any law, or regulation to which any Borrower or each Guarantor is subject, or conflict with, result in a breach of, or constitute a default, including due notice or lapse of time or both, under, any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any of any Borrower's or any Guarantor's organizational documents or any agreement or instrument to which any Borrower or any Guarantor is a party or by which it is bound, or any order or decree applicable to any Borrower or any Guarantor, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien on any of any Borrower's or any Guarantor's assets or property (other than pursuant to the Loan Documents) or otherwise materially and adversely affect performance of its respective duties. 3.1.4. Litigation. There is no action, suit, proceeding arbitration or investigation pending or, to such Borrower's knowledge, threatened against any Borrower, any Mortgage Borrower, any Borrower Party, any Guarantor, Manager or any of the Properties in 33
any court or by or before any other Governmental Authority which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. 3.1.5. Agreements. No Borrower Party is in default with respect to any order or decree of any court or any order, regulation or demand of any Governmental Authority, which default might have consequences that would materially and adversely affect the condition (financial or other) or operations of any Borrower or any Mortgage Borrower or any of the Mezzanine Properties or any of the Mortgage Properties or might have consequences that would adversely affect their respective performance hereunder or thereunder. 3.1.6. Consents. No consent, approval, authorization, order or filings of or with any court or Governmental Authority is required for the execution, delivery and performance by any Borrower of, or compliance by any Borrower with, this Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby except those the absence of which would not have a Material Adverse Effect, other than those which have been obtained by such Borrower; provided, however, Borrowers will obtain within sixty (60) days (or, in the case of Medicare provided agreements only, one hundred and eighty (180) days) of the Closing Date the state licenses for the operation of each Mezzanine Property as a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility, as applicable, and the Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements in the names of each applicable Borrower which have not been obtained as of the Closing Date. 3.1.7. Title. (a) (i) The Fee Property Borrower has good, marketable and insurable fee title to the real property comprising the applicable Mezzanine Property and good title to the balance of such Mezzanine Property and (ii) each Leasehold Property Borrower has a valid leasehold interest in the real property comprising the applicable Mezzanine Property and good title to the balance of such Mezzanine Property, in each case, free and clear of all Liens whatsoever except the Permitted Encumbrances. Each Mortgage, when properly recorded in the appropriate records, together with any Uniform Commercial Code financing statements required to be filed in connection therewith, will create (i) a valid, and enforceable first priority, perfected Lien on the applicable Mezzanine Property, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances and (ii) valid and enforceable perfected security interests in and to, and perfected collateral assignments of, all personalty (including the Leases), all in accordance with the terms thereof, in each case subject only to any Permitted Encumbrances. There are no mechanics', materialman's or other similar Liens or claims which have been filed for work, labor or materials affecting any Mezzanine Property which are or may be Liens prior to, or equal or coordinate with, the Lien of the related Mortgage or for which Borrower has not provided title insurance over such Lien. None of the Permitted Encumbrances, individually or in the aggregate, materially interfere with the benefits of the security intended to be provided by the Mortgages and this Agreement, materially and adversely affect the value of the Mezzanine Properties, impair the intended use or operations of the Mezzanine Properties or impair any Borrower's ability to pay its obligations in a timely manner. 34
(b) The Equity Borrowers are the record and beneficial owners of, and have good and marketable title to, the Collateral, free and clear of all Liens whatsoever. The Pledge Agreement, together with any Certificates required to be delivered in connection therewith and Uniform Commercial Code financing statements required to be filed in connection therewith, will create valid, perfected first priority security interests in and to the Collateral, all in accordance with the terms thereof. 3.1.8. No Plan Assets. As of the date hereof and throughout the term of the Loan (a) no Borrower is and will be an "employee benefit plan," as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, subject to Title I of ERISA, or a "plan," as defined in Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code, subject to Code Section 4975, (b) no Borrower is and will be a "governmental plan" within the meaning of Section 3(32) of ERISA, (c) none of the assets of any Borrower constitutes or will constitute "plan assets" of one or more of any such plans within the meaning of 29 C.F.R. Section 2510.3-101, and (d) transactions by or with any Borrower are not and will not be subject to state statutes regulating investment of, and fiduciary obligations with respect to, governmental plans. 3.1.9. Compliance. Each Borrower Party and each of the Properties and the use thereof is in substantial compliance with all applicable Legal Requirements, including, without limitation, building and zoning ordinances and codes. No Borrower Party is in default or violation of any order, writ, injunction, decree or demand of any Governmental Authority, the violation of which might materially adversely affect the condition (financial or otherwise) or business of any Borrower. No Borrower Party has committed any act which may give any Governmental Authority the right to cause any Borrower or any Mortgage Borrower to forfeit any of the Properties or any part thereof or any monies paid in performance of any Borrower's obligations under any of the Loan Documents. 3.1.10. Financial Information. All financial data, including, without limitation, the statements of cash flow and income and operating expense, that have been delivered to Lender in respect of the Properties and each Borrower Party (i) are true, complete and correct in all material respects, (ii) accurately represent the financial condition of the Properties as of the date of such reports, and (iii) have been prepared in accordance with GAAP throughout the periods covered, except as disclosed therein. No Borrower Party has any contingent liabilities, liabilities for taxes, unusual forward or long-term commitments or unrealized or anticipated losses from any unfavorable commitments that are known to any Borrower and reasonably likely to have a materially adverse effect on the Properties or the operation thereof, except as referred to or reflected in said financial statements. Since the date of the financial statements, there has been no material adverse change in the financial condition, operations or business of a Borrower Party or the Properties from that set forth in said financial statements. 3.1.11. Condemnation. No Condemnation or other proceeding is pending or, to such Borrower's knowledge, is threatened with respect to all or any portion of any of the Properties or for the relocation of roadways providing access to any of the Properties. 35
3.1.12. Utilities and Public Access. Except as denoted on the application Survey or Title Policy, each Property has adequate rights of access to public ways and is served by utilities, including, without limitation, adequate water, sewer, electricity, gas, telephone, sanitary sewer and storm drain facilities. All public utilities necessary to the continued use and enjoyment of each Property as presently used and enjoyed are located in the public right-of-way abutting such Property, and all such utilities are connected so as to serve such Property without passing over other property. All roads necessary for the full utilization of each Property for its current purpose have been completed and dedicated to public use and accepted by all governmental authorities or are the subject of access easements for the benefit of such Property. 3.1.13. Separate Lots. Except as denoted by the applicable Title Policy, each Property is comprised of one (1) or more parcels which constitute separate tax lots and do not constitute a portion of any other tax lot not a part of the applicable Property. 3.1.14. Assessments. There are no pending or, to Borrower's knowledge, proposed special or other assessments for public improvements or otherwise affecting any of the Properties, nor are there any contemplated improvements to any of the Properties that may result in such special or other assessments. 3.1.15. Enforceability. The Loan Documents are not subject to any right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense by any Borrower or, as applicable, any Guarantor, including the defense of usury, nor would the operation of any of the terms of the Loan Documents, or the exercise of any right thereunder, render the Loan Documents unenforceable, and neither any Borrower nor any Guarantor has not asserted any right of rescission, set-off, counterclaim or defense with respect thereto. 3.1.16. Assignment of Leases. Each Assignment of Leases creates a valid assignment of, or a valid security interest in, certain rights under the related Leases, subject only to a license granted to the applicable Property Borrower to exercise certain rights and to perform certain obligations of the lessor under such Leases, including the right to operate the related Mezzanine Property. No Person other than Lender has any interest in or assignment of the Leases relating to the Mezzanine Properties or any portion of the Rents relating to the Mezzanine Properties due and payable or to become due and payable thereunder. 3.1.17. Insurance. Each Borrower has obtained and has delivered to Lender original or certified copies of all of the Policies (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) for each Property, with all premiums prepaid thereunder, reflecting the insurance coverages, amounts and other requirements set forth in this Agreement and the Mortgage Loan Agreement. Except as set forth in Schedule IX attached hereto and to the Mortgage Loan Agreement, no claims have been made by any Borrower under any of the Policies (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) which remain unresolved, and no Person, including each Borrower and each Mortgage Borrower, has done, by act or omission, anything which would impair the coverage of any of the Policies (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). 36
3.1.18. Licenses. All permits, authorizations, licenses and approvals (including, without limitation, CONs, Accreditations, Medicaid Provider Agreements and Certifications, Medicare Participation Agreements and Certifications and certificates of occupancy) required by any Governmental Authority for the use, occupancy and operation of each Property in the manner in which such Property is currently being used, occupied and operated have been obtained, except those the absence of which would not mean a Material Adverse Effect and are valid and in full force and effect; provided, however, Borrowers and Mortgage Borrowers will obtain within sixty (60) days (or in the case of Medicare provider agreements only, one hundred eighty (180) days) of the Closing Date the state licenses for operation of the related Property as a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility, as applicable, and the Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements in the names of the applicable Borrowers and Mortgage Borrowers which have not been obtained as of the Closing Date. 3.1.19. Flood Zone. None of the Improvements on any of the Properties are located in an area identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency as a special flood hazard area. 3.1.20. Physical Condition. Except as set forth on the applicable Property Condition Report, each Property, including, without limitation, all buildings, improvements, parking facilities, sidewalks, storm drainage systems, roofs, plumbing systems, HVAC systems, fire protection systems, electrical systems, equipment, elevators, exterior sidings and doors, landscaping, irrigation systems and all structural components, are in good condition, order and repair in all material respects; there exists no structural or other material defects or damages in any of the Properties, whether latent or otherwise, and no Borrower has received notice from any insurance company or bonding company of any defects or inadequacies in any of the Properties, or any part thereof, which would materially and adversely affect the insurability of the same or cause the imposition of extraordinary premiums or charges thereon or of any termination or threatened termination of any policy of insurance or bond. 3.1.21. Boundaries. Except as denoted on the applicable Survey, all of the improvements which were included in determining the appraised value of each Property lie wholly within the boundaries and building restriction lines of such Property, and no improvements on adjoining properties encroach upon such Property, and no easements or other encumbrances affecting the applicable Property encroach upon any of the improvements, so as to affect the value or marketability of the applicable Property except those which are insured against by title insurance. 3.1.22. Leases. Each Property Borrower represents and warrants to Lender with respect to the Leases at the Mezzanine Properties that: (a) the copies of the Ground Leases that have been delivered to Lender in connection with the Loan are true, complete and correct and none of the Properties are subject to any Leases other than (i) such Ground Leases and (ii) the resident care agreements entered into by the Property Borrowers and the residents of the Mezzanine Properties, (b) the Ground Leases are in full force and effect and there are no defaults thereunder by any party thereto, (c) there are no oral agreements with respect to the 37
Ground Leases, (d) no Rent (including security deposits) has been paid more than one (1) month in advance of its due date, (e) all work to be performed by any Property Borrower under each Lease has been performed as required and has been accepted by the applicable tenant, and (f) any payments, free rent, partial rent, rebate of rent or other payments, credits, allowances or abatements required to be given by any Borrower to any tenant has already been received by such tenant. 3.1.23. Filing and Recording Taxes. All transfer taxes, deed stamps, intangible taxes or other amounts in the nature of transfer taxes required to be paid under applicable Legal Requirements in connection with the transfer of the Mezzanine Properties to any Property Borrower have been paid or will be paid at closing. All mortgage, mortgage recording, stamp, intangible or other similar tax required to be paid under applicable Legal Requirements in connection with the execution, delivery, recordation, filing, registration, perfection or enforcement of any of the Loan Documents, including, without limitation, the Mortgages, have been paid or are being paid simultaneously herewith. All taxes and governmental assessments due and owing in respect of the Mezzanine Properties have been paid, or an escrow of funds in an amount sufficient to cover such payments has been established hereunder or are insured against by the title insurance policy to be issued in connection with the Mortgages. 3.1.24. Single Purpose. Each Borrower hereby represents and warrants to, and covenants with, Lender that each Borrower and each Mortgage Borrower has been at all times since its formation, and will continue to be a Single-Purpose Entity (as defined herein and, as to each Mortgage Borrower, in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). 3.1.25. Tax Filings; Payroll Taxes. Each Borrower and each Guarantor has filed (or have obtained effective extensions for filing) all federal, state and local tax returns required to be filed and have paid or made adequate provision for the payment of all federal, state and local taxes, charges and assessments payable by any Borrower and any Guarantor. Each Borrower believes that its tax returns and those of each Guarantor properly reflect the income and taxes of each Borrower and each Guarantor for the periods covered thereby, subject only to reasonable adjustments required by the Internal Revenue Service or other applicable tax authority upon audit. Each of each Borrower and each Guarantor have paid all payroll taxes required to be paid by any such party by any Governmental Authorities. 3.1.26. Solvency. Each Borrower (a) has not entered into the transaction or any Loan Document with the actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any creditor and (b) received reasonably equivalent value in exchange for its obligations under the Loan Documents. Giving effect to the Loan, the fair saleable value of each Borrower's assets exceeds and will, immediately following the making of the Loan, exceed such Borrower's total liabilities, including, without limitation, subordinated, unliquidated, disputed and contingent liabilities. The fair saleable value of each Borrower's assets is and will, immediately following the making of the Loan, be greater than such Borrower's probable liabilities, including the maximum amount of its contingent liabilities on its debts as such debts become absolute and matured. Each 38
Borrower's assets do not and, immediately following the making of the Loan will not, constitute unreasonably small capital to carry out its business as conducted or as proposed to be conducted. Each Borrower does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur Indebtedness and liabilities (including contingent liabilities and other commitments) beyond its ability to pay such Indebtedness and liabilities as they mature (taking into account the timing and amounts of cash to be received by such Borrower and the amounts to be payable on or in respect of obligations of such Borrower). 3.1.27. Federal Reserve Regulations. No part of the proceeds of the Loan will be used for the purpose of purchasing or acquiring any "margin stock" within the meaning of Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or for any other purpose which would be inconsistent with such Regulation U or any other Regulations of such Board of Governors, or for any purposes prohibited by Legal Requirements or by the terms and conditions of this Agreement or the other Loan Documents. 3.1.28. Organizational Chart. The organizational chart attached as Schedule IV hereto, relating to Borrowers and certain Affiliates and other parties, is true, complete and correct on and as of the date hereof. 3.1.29. Bank Holding Company. No Borrower is a "bank holding company" or a direct or indirect subsidiary of a "bank holding company" as defined in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and Regulation Y thereunder of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 3.1.30. No Other Debt. No Borrower or Mortgage Borrower has borrowed or received debt financing (other than permitted pursuant to this Agreement and the Mortgage Loan Agreement) that has not been heretofore repaid in full. 3.1.31. Investment Company Act. No Borrower is (1) an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company," within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended; (2) a "holding company" or a "subsidiary company" of a "holding company" or an "affiliate" of either a "holding company" or a "subsidiary company" within the meaning of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, as amended; or (3) subject to any other federal or state law or regulation which purports to restrict or regulate its ability to borrower money. 3.1.32. No Bankruptcy Filing. No Borrower or Mortgage Borrower is contemplating either the filing of a petition by it under any state or federal bankruptcy or insolvency laws or the liquidation of its assets or property, and no Borrower has any knowledge of any Person contemplating the filing of any such petition against it, any Mortgage Borrower or any Guarantor and no Property is the subject of, and no Borrower, Mortgage Borrower or Guarantor is a debtor in, any state or federal bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding. 3.1.33. Full and Accurate Disclosure. No information contained in this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, or any written statement furnished by or on behalf of any 39
Borrower pursuant to the terms of this Agreement contains any untrue statement of a material fact or omits to state a material fact necessary to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made. There is no fact or circumstance presently known to any Borrower which has not been disclosed to Lender and which materially adversely affects, or is reasonably likely to materially adversely affect, any of the Properties, any Borrower or its business, operations or condition (financial or otherwise). 3.1.34. Foreign Person. No Borrower is a "foreign person" within the meaning of Section 1445(f)(3) of the Code. 3.1.35. No Change in Facts or Circumstances; Disclosure. There has been no material adverse change in any condition, fact, circumstance or event that would make the financial statements, rent rolls, reports, certificates or other documents submitted in connection with the Loan inaccurate, incomplete or otherwise misleading in any material respect or that otherwise materially and adversely affects the business operations or the financial condition of any Borrower, Mortgage Borrower or any of the Properties. 3.1.36. Security Deposits. Each Borrower Party is and each Borrower will continue to be in substantial compliance in all material respects with all Legal Requirements relating to security deposits and resident trust funds. Each Borrower is and will continue to hold all related security deposits and resident trust funds collected in connection with each of the Mezzanine Properties in segregated Eligible Accounts. 3.1.37. Embargoed Person. (a) None of the funds or other assets of any Borrower or any Guarantor constitute property of, or are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any person, entity or government subject to trade restrictions under U.S. law, including but not limited to, the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C.(S)(S) 1701 et seq., The Trading with the Enemy Act, 50 U.S.C. App. 1 et seq. , and any Executive Orders or regulations promulgated thereunder with the result that the investment in any Borrower or any Guarantor, as applicable (whether directly or indirectly), is prohibited by law or the Loan made by the Lender is in violation of law ("Embargoed Person"); (b) no Embargoed Person has any interest of any nature whatsoever in any Borrower or any Guarantor, as applicable (whether directly or indirectly), is prohibited by law or the Loan is in violation of law; and (c) none of the funds of any Borrower or any Guarantor, as applicable, have been derived from any unlawful activity with the result that the investment in any Borrower or any Guarantor, as applicable (whether directly or indirectly), is prohibited by law or the Loan is in violation of law. 3.1.38. Ground Lease Representations and Warranties. (a) Intentionally Deleted. (b) Recording. Each Ground Lease or a memorandum thereof has been duly recorded, each such Ground Lease permits the interest of the lessee thereunder to be encumbered by the related Mortgage, and there has not been a material change in the terms of such Ground Lease since its recordation. 40
(c) No Senior Liens. Except for the Permitted Encumbrances, each applicable Leasehold Property Borrower's interest in each Ground Lease is not subject to any liens or encumbrances superior to, or of equal priority with, the related Mortgage, other than the related ground lessor's related fee interest. (d) Ground Lease Assignable. Each applicable Leasehold Property Borrower's interest in each Ground Lease is assignable to Lender upon notice to, but without the consent of, the ground lessor thereunder or, in the event that it is so assigned, it is further assignable to the trustee in a Securitization upon notice to, but without a need to obtain the consent of, such ground lessor. (e) Default. Each Ground Lease is in full force and effect and no default has occurred under such Ground Lease and there is no existing condition which, but for the passage of time or the giving of notice, would result in a default under the terms of such Ground Lease. (f) Notice. Each Ground Lease, as amended by the applicable Ground Lessor Agreement, requires the ground lessor thereunder to give notice of any default by any applicable Leasehold Property Borrower to any mortgagee and provides that notice of termination given under such Ground Lease is not effective against such mortgagee unless a copy of the notice has been delivered to the mortgagee in the manner described in such Ground Lease. (g) Cure. Lender is permitted a reasonable opportunity (including, where necessary, sufficient time to gain possession of the interest of the applicable Leasehold Property Borrower under each Ground Lease) to cure any default under each Ground Lease, which is curable after the receipt of notice of the default before the ground lessor thereunder may terminate such Ground Lease. (h) Intentionally Deleted. (i) New Lease. Each Ground Lease, as amended by the applicable Ground Lessor Agreement, requires the ground lessor thereunder to enter into a new lease upon termination of such Ground Lease for any reason, including rejection of such Ground Lease in a bankruptcy proceeding, provided that Lender cures any defaults which are susceptible of being cured. (j) Subleasing. No Ground Lease imposes commercially unreasonable restrictions on subletting. (k) Amendments. Each applicable Leasehold Property Borrower shall not (i) enter into any amendments, changes, cancellations, alterations, surrender or modifications of any Ground Lease without the prior written consent of Lender, (ii) consent to any matter requiring the consent of any applicable Leasehold Property Borrower under any Ground Lease without the prior written consent of Lender, (iii) cancel or terminate any Ground Lease. 41
3.1.39. Management Agreement/Staff Leasing Agreement. Each Management Agreement and Staff Leasing Agreement is in full force and effect and there is no default, breach or violation existing thereunder by any party thereto and no event has occurred that, with the passage of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a default, breach or violation by any party thereunder. 3.1.40. Use-Specific Representations. (a) Compliance with Laws. Each Borrower Party and each Property are in substantial compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws, regulations and guidelines (including any government payment program requirements and disclosure of ownership and related information requirements), quality and safety standards, accepted professional standards and principles that apply to professionals providing services to Nursing Facilities and/or Assisted Living Facilities, in each case, as applicable, accreditation standards, and requirements of the applicable state licensing agency, CMS and all other Governmental Authorities including, without limitation, those requirements relating to the physical structure and environment of each Property, licensing, quality and adequacy of medical care, distribution of pharmaceuticals, rate setting, equipment, personnel, operating policies, additions to facilities and services and fee splitting except for any non-compliance with any of the foregoing that could have a Material Adverse Effect. No Borrower Party has committed any act which may give any Governmental Authority the right to cause any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower to lose any applicable Regulatory Permits (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) the loss of which could have a Material Adverse Effect. (b) Regulatory Permits. All governmental licenses, permits, regulatory agreements or other approvals or agreements necessary or desirable for the use or operation of each Property as intended are held by the applicable Borrower or Mortgage Borrower and are in full force and effect, including, without limitation, approved provider participation status in any provider payment program (including, but not limited to, Medicare and Medicaid), and a valid CON or similar certificate, license, or approval issued by the applicable state and/or federal agency for the requisite number and type of beds (collectively, the "Regulatory Permits") except for any Regulatory Permits the failure to hold or maintain in full force or effect could have a Material Adverse Effect; provided, however, Borrowers and Mortgage Borrowers will obtain within sixty (60) days or, in the case of Medicare provider agreements only, one hundred and eighty (180) days of the Closing Date the state licenses for the operation of each Property as a Nursing Facility or Assisted Living Facility, as applicable, and the Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements in the names of the applicable Borrowers and Mortgage Borrowers which have not been obtained as of the Closing Date. (c) Ownership of Regulatory Permits. Except for certain Regulatory Permits pledged to HUD for THI of Maryland at Fort Washington, LLC, the Regulatory Permits, including without limitation, each CON: (i) are not and have not been, transferred to any location other than the Property to which such Regulatory Permits relate; 42
(ii) are not and have not been, pledged as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness other than the Loan; and (iii) are held free from restrictions or known conflicts which would materially impair the use or operation of each Property as intended, and are not provisional, probationary or restricted in any way. (d) Medicare and Medicaid Compliance. To the extent applicable, each Borrower Party and each Property is in substantial compliance with all requirements for participation in Medicare and Medicaid, including without limitation, the Medicare and Medicaid Patient and Program Protection Act of 1987. To the extent applicable, each Borrower Party and each Property is in conformance in all material respects with all conditions of participation, reimbursement and cost reporting requirements, and each applicable Borrower has a current provider agreement which is in full force and effect under Medicare and Medicaid for the number and type of beds. (e) Third Party Payor Programs. There is no threatened or pending revocation, suspension, termination, probation, restriction, limitation, fine, civil monetary penalty, recoupment or non-renewal affecting any Borrower Party or any Property in respect of any participation or provider agreement with any third-party payor, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid, Blue Cross and/or Blue Shield, and any other private commercial insurance managed care and employee assistance program (collectively, the "Third Party Payor Programs") to which any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower presently is subject. All Medicaid, Medicare, and private insurance cost reports and financial reports submitted by any Borrower Party are and will be materially accurate and complete and have not been and will not be misleading in any material respects. No cost reports or financial reports for any Property remain "open" or unsettled except for those reports that remain open for the current period. (f) Governmental Proceedings and Notices. Except as described on the Schedule XIII attached hereto or attached to the Mortgage Loan Agreement, no Borrower Party and no Property is currently the subject of any proceeding by any Governmental Authority, and no notice of any violation or subpoena or inquiry of any nature has been received from a Governmental Authority that would, directly or indirectly, or with the passage of time: (i) have a material adverse impact on any Borrower's or Mortgage Borrower's ability to accept and/or retain patients or result in the imposition of a fine, a sanction, an administrative or criminal action, a lower rate certification or a lower reimbursement rate for services rendered to eligible patients; (ii) modify, limit or annul or result in the transfer, suspension, revocation or imposition of probationary use on any Regulatory Permit the absence of which would have a Material Adverse Effect; 43
(iii) affect any Borrower's or Mortgage Borrower's continued participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other Third Party Payor Programs, as applicable, or any successor programs thereto, at current rate certifications. (g) Physical Plant Standards. Each Property and the use thereof complies in all material respects with all applicable local, state and federal building codes, fire codes, life safety codes, health care, nursing facility and other similar regulatory requirements, including, without limitation, participation requirements in Medicare and Medicaid (collectively, the "Physical Plant Standards") and, except as described on the Schedule X attached hereto and attached to the Mortgage Loan Agreement, no waivers of the Physical Plant Standards exist at such Property. (h) Past Violations. Except as set forth on the attached Schedule XIV, there have been no penalty enforcement actions undertaken by any Governmental Authority during the last three (3) calendar years or during the last survey cycle against any Property, against any Borrower Party, or against any partner, member, officer, director, stockholder or Affiliate of any Borrower Party which enforcement action could have a Material Adverse Effect. There have been no violations over the past three (3) years that have threatened any Property's or any Borrower's or Mortgage Borrower's certification for participation in any Medicare, Medicaid or other Third Party Payor Programs. No Borrower Party has been the subject of a "double G" determination for the last three (3) calendar years or since January 14, 2000, whichever date is later. (i) Audits. Except as set forth on the Schedule XI attached hereto and attached to the Mortgage Loan Agreement, there are no current, pending or outstanding reimbursement audits regarding Medicaid, Medicare or other Third Party Payor Programs nor any appeals pending at any Property that (x) are not applicable in the ordinary course to Nursing Facilities or Assisted Living Facilities, as applicable, comparable to the Properties and (y) cold have a Material Adverse Effect. (j) Recoupment. There are no current or pending recoupment efforts regarding Medicaid, Medicare or other Third Party Payor Programs (or with respect to) any Property that (x) are not applicable in the ordinary course to Nursing Facilities or Assisted Living Facilities, as applicable, comparable to any Property and (y) could have a Material Adverse Effect. No Borrower Party or Property is a participant in any federal program whereby any Governmental Authority may have the right to recover funds by reason of the advance of federal funds, including, without limitation, those authorized under the Hill Burton Act. (k) Pledges of Receivables. No Borrower Party has pledged its receivables or any Rents as collateral security for any outstanding loan or indebtedness other than the Loan, or the Mortgage Loan. (l) Patient Care Agreements. There are no patient or resident care agreements with patients or residents or with any other persons that deviate in any material adverse respect from the standard form customarily used at each Property. 44
(m) Patient Records. All patient and resident records at each Property, and all patient and resident trust fund accounts, are maintained in substantial compliance with all regulatory requirements and are true and correct in all respects. (n) Reimbursement Contracts. All Reimbursement Contracts applicable to any Borrower Party or any Property are in good standing with all applicable Governmental Authorities, Regulatory Permits, Medicare Certifications and/or Medicaid Certifications. Each Borrower Party is current in the payment of all so-called provider specific taxes, bed taxes or other assessments with respect to any Reimbursement Contracts. (o)Licensed Beds. The number and category of licensed beds at each Property is as set forth on Schedule III attached hereto and to the Mortgage Loan Agreement. Except as set forth in Schedule XII attached hereto and to the Mortgage Agreement, no waivers of any laws, rules, regulations or requirements (including, without limitation minimum square foot requirements per bed) are required for each Property to operate at the licensed bed capacities listed on Schedule III attached hereto and to the Mortgage Loan Agreement and to operate in substantial compliance with applicable Legal Requirements. No Borrower Party has been granted nor has any Borrower Party requested the right, to reduce the number of licensed beds at any Property. No Borrower Party has applied for approval to move any and all of the licensed beds at any Property to any other location. (p) Intentionally Deleted. 3.1.41. Material Agreements. There are no Material Agreements (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) except as described in Exhibit D attached hereto and to the Mortgage Loan Agreement. Each Borrower has made available to Lender true and complete copies of all Material Agreements (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). Each Material Agreement (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) has been entered into at arm's length in the ordinary course of business by or on behalf of a Borrower or Mortgage Borrower, as applicable. Section 3.2 Survival of Representations. The representations and warranties set forth in Section 3.1 shall survive for so long as any amount remains payable to Lender under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents. 45
ARTICLE IV. BORROWER COVENANTS Section 4.1. Borrower Affirmative Covenants. Until all amounts are paid in full under the Loan Documents (excluding contingent indemnity obligations that survive repayments), each Borrower hereby covenants and agrees with Lender that: 4.1.1. Existence; Compliance with Legal Requirements. Each Borrower shall do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its existence, rights, licenses, permits and franchises except to the extent such preservation, renewal and effectiveness could not have a Material Adverse Effect, and substantially comply with all Legal Requirements applicable to it, the Mortgage Borrowers and the Properties. 4.1.2.Taxes and Other Charges. Each Property Borrower shall pay all Taxes and Other Charges and payroll taxes now or hereafter levied or assessed or imposed against the Mezzanine Properties or any part thereof or any Borrower as the same become due and payable; provided, however, each Property Borrower's obligation to directly pay Taxes shall be suspended for so long as such Property Borrower complies with the terms and provisions of Section 6.3 hereof and there are adequate funds in the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account. Each Property Borrower shall furnish to Lender receipts for the payment of the Taxes and the Other Charges prior to the date the same shall become delinquent; provided, however, that each Property Borrower is not required to furnish such receipts for payment of Taxes in the event that such Taxes have been paid by Lender pursuant to Section 6.3 hereof. Each Property Borrower shall not permit or suffer, and shall promptly discharge any liens or charges against the Mezzanine Properties, except Permitted Encumbrances. After prior notice to Lender, each Property Borrower, at its own expense, may contest by appropriate legal proceeding, conducted in good faith and with due diligence, the amount or validity of any Taxes or Other Charges, provided that (i) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and remains uncured; (ii) such proceeding shall be permitted under and be conducted in accordance with all applicable statutes, laws and ordinances; (iii) none of the Mezzanine Properties nor any part thereof or interest therein will be in danger of being sold, forfeited, terminated, canceled or lost; (iv) each Property Borrower shall promptly upon final determination thereof pay the amount of any such Taxes or Other Charges, together with all costs, interest and penalties which may be payable in connection therewith; (v) such proceeding shall suspend the collection of Taxes or Other Charges from the applicable Mezzanine Property; and (vi) upon request of Lender, each Property Borrower shall deposit with Lender cash, or other security as may be approved by Lender, in an amount equal to one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the contested amount, to insure the payment of any such Taxes or Other Charges, together with all interest and penalties thereon. Lender may pay over any such cash or other security held by Lender to the claimant entitled thereto at any time when, in the judgment of Lender, the entitlement of such claimant is established. 4.1.3. Litigation. Each Borrower shall give prompt notice to Lender of any litigation or governmental proceedings pending or threatened against any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower which might materially adversely affect any of the Properties or any 46
Borrower's or Mortgage Borrower's ability to perform its obligations hereunder or under the other Loan Documents or the Mortgage Loan Documents. 4.1.4. Access to Properties. Each Property Borrower shall, and each Equity Borrower shall cause the related Mortgage Borrowers to, permit agents, representatives and employees of Lender to inspect each Property or any part thereof at reasonable hours upon reasonable advance written notice. Lender shall not unreasonably interfere with any Borrowers' business operations during such inspection. 4.1.5. Further Assurances Each Borrower shall, at such Borrower's sole cost and expense, from time to time as reasonably requested by Lender, execute, acknowledge, record, register, file and/or deliver to Lender such other instruments, agreements, certificates and documents (including UCC financing statements and amended or replacement mortgages) as Lender may reasonably request to evidence, confirm, perfect and maintain the liens securing or intended to secure the obligations of any Borrower under the Loan Documents or to facilitate a replacement of the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank or Mezzanine Collection Account Bank if requested by Lender, and do and execute all such further lawful and reasonable acts, conveyances and assurances for the better and more effective carrying out of the intents and purposes of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents as Lender shall reasonably require from time to time. Each Borrower hereby authorizes and appoints Lender as its attorney-in-fact to execute, acknowledge, record, register and/or file such instruments, agreements, certificates and documents, and to do and execute such acts, conveyances and assurances, should any Borrower fail to do so itself in violation of this Agreement following written request from Lender, in each case without the signature of any Borrower. The foregoing grant of authority is a power of attorney coupled with an interest and such appointment shall be irrevocable for the term of this Agreement. Each Borrower hereby ratifies all actions that such attorney shall lawfully take or cause to be taken in accordance with this Section. 4.1.6. Financial Reporting. (a) Each Borrower shall keep and maintain or will cause to be kept and maintained proper and accurate books and records, in accordance with GAAP in all material respects, reflecting the financial affairs of each Borrower. Lender shall have the right from time to time during normal business hours upon reasonable notice to the applicable Borrower to examine such books and records at the office of such Borrower or other Person maintaining such books and records and to make such copies or extracts thereof as Lender shall desire. (b) As soon as available, and in any event within one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis, financial statements prepared for such year with respect to Borrowers and the Mortgage Borrowers, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such year, together with related statements of income and members' or partners' capital for such Fiscal Year, audited by a "Big Four" accounting firm or a nationally recognized, independent certified public accounting firm reasonably satisfactory to Lender whose opinion shall be to the effect that such 47
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis and shall not be qualified as to the scope of the audit or as to the status of each Borrower and Mortgage Borrower as a going concern. Together with each Borrower's and Mortgage Borrower's annual financial statements, such Borrower shall furnish to Lender an Officer's Certificate certifying as of the date thereof whether to the best of such Borrower's knowledge there exists an event or circumstance which constitutes a Default (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) or Event of Default (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) by any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower under the Loan Documents or Mortgage Loan Documents, as applicable, and if such Default or Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same. Together with each Borrower's and Mortgage Borrower's annual financial statements, such Borrower shall furnish to Lender, in hard copy and electronic format: (i) a statement of cash flows for each Property; and (ii) such other information as Lender shall reasonably request. (c) As soon as available, and in any event within forty-five (45) days after the end of each fiscal quarter (based on Borrrower's Fiscal Year), each Borrower shall furnish to Lender, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis, quarterly and year-to-date unaudited financial statements prepared for such fiscal quarter with respect to Borrowers and Mortgage Borrowers, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such fiscal quarter, together with related statements of income, members' or partners' capital and cash flows for such fiscal quarter and for the portion of the Fiscal Year ending with such fiscal quarter,which statements shall be accompanied by (i) an Officer's Certificate certifying that the same are true and correct and were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, subject to changes resulting from audit and normal year-end audit adjustments and (ii) an Officer's Certificate certifying as of the date thereof whether to the best of such Borrower's knowledge there exists an event or circumstance which constitutes a Default (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) or Event of Default (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) by any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower under the Loan Documents or Mortgage Loan Documents, as applicable and if such Default or Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same. Each such quarterly statement shall show the separate operations of each Property, including, without limitation, (1) a breakdown of Patient Revenues (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) and other revenues itemized by payor type and a reasonably detailed breakdown of operating expenses and (2) patient census by payor type. Each such quarterly report shall be accompanied by the following, in hard copy and electronic format: (i) a statement in reasonable detail which calculates Net Operating Income for each Property for the trailing four fiscal quarters, in each case, ending at the end of such fiscal quarter; (ii) then current occupancy report for each Property; and 48
(iii) such other information as Lender shall reasonably request. (d) As soon as available, and in any event within thirty (30) days after the end of each calendar month, each Borrower shall furnish (x) a report describing in reasonable detail the occurrence during such calendar month of any of the following: the termination, cancellation or entry into, or default by any party under, any Ground Lease at any of the Properties or any event which is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect on the the ability of any Borrower to perform any material provision of any Loan Document,or the value, use or enjoyment of any of the Properties or the operation thereof and (y) such Borrower's calculation of Debt Service Coverage Ratio and adequate back-up to support such calculation. (e) Until the occurrence of a Securitization or series of Securitizations, which, in the aggregate, shall have securitized the entire Loan, each Borrower shall, simultaneously with delivering the report described in the foregoing clause (d), furnish, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis, monthly and year-to-date unaudited financial statements prepared for the applicable month with respect to Borrowers and Mortgage Borrowers, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such month, together with related statements of income, members' or partners' capital and cash flows for such month and for the portion of the Fiscal Year ending with such month, which statements shall be accompanied by (i) an Officer's Certificate certifying that the same are true and correct and were prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis, subject to changes resulting from audit and normal year-end audit adjustments and (ii) an Officer's Certificate certifying as to any material variances from the approved Annual Budget (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) on a line-item basis. Each monthly report shall show the separate operations of each Property, including, without limitation, (1) a breakdown of Patient Revenues (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) and other revenues itemized by payor type and a reasonably detailed breakdown of operating expenses and (2) patient census by payor type. Each such monthly report shall be accompanied by the following in hard copy and electronic format: (i) a statement in reasonable detail which calculates Net Operating Income for each Property for the trailing twelve (12) months, in each case, ending at the end of that month; (ii) then current occupancy report for each Property; and (iii) such other information as Lender shall reasonably request. (f) As soon as available, and in any event within ninety (90) days after the end of each calendar year, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender true and complete copies of a report regarding the compliance of the Properties with all Regulatory Permits (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). (g) Upon Lender's written request, as soon as available, and in any event within five (5) days after preparation thereof, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender the 49
weekly and monthly consolidated cash flow reports of each Borrower and Mortgage Borrower and consolidated patient census reports for each Borrower and Mortgage Borrower. (h) As soon as available, and in any event no later than thirty (30) days after the end of each fiscal quarter, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender (i) the quarterly consolidated survey deficiency summary report, indicating for each Property whether any survey, citation or report alleging any deficiency with respect to such Property has been issued during the prior month and, if so, setting forth, the identity of the Governmental Authority that issued such survey, citation or report, a description of the alleged deficiency and the timetable or deadline for same and the applicable Borrower's plan for curing such deficiency and (ii) to the extent existing, all actuarial reports relating to all professional liability claims. Each Borrower shall also deliver to Lender promptly after request therefor by Lender any other Property specific survey reports reasonably requested by Lender. (i) As soon as available, and in any event within forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, each Borrower shall deliver to Lender copies of the Officer's Certificates, setting forth whether any event(s) of default has occurred and is continuing with respect to the reduction of the number of licensed beds at any Property or the revocation of certification for reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid with respect to any Property. (j) As soon as available, and in any event within ten (10) days of receipt, each Borrower shall deliver to Lender any and all notices (regardless of form) from any licensing and/or certifying agency (i) that any Regulatory Permit (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) for any Property or the Medicare Certification or Medicaid Certification of any Property is the subject of any enforcement action, revocation or suspension, or is subject to assessment for civil monetary penalties or is the subject of any overpayment claim or recoupment claim or (ii) that action is pending or being considered to revoke or suspend any Regulatory Permit (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) or to institute enforcement actions of any kind. (k) Upon the request of Lender, within five (5) days of the earlier of (i) the date of the required filing of cost reports for any Property with the Medicaid agency or (ii) the date of actual filing of such cost report for any Property with such agency, each Borrower shall furnish to Lender a complete and accurate copy of the annual Medicaid cost report for each Property, which will be prepared by an independent certified public accountant or by an experienced cost report preparer acceptable to Lender in its sole discretion, and promptly furnish to Lender any amendments filed with respect to such reports and all responses, audit reports or inquiries with respect to such reports. (l) As soon as available, and in any event within five (5) days of receipt by any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower, each Borrower shall deliver to Lender a copy of any Medicare, Medicaid or other licensing agency survey or report and any statement of deficiencies, and within the time period required by the particular agency for furnishing a plan of correction, shall also furnish or cause to be furnished to Lender, a copy of the plan of correction 50
generated from such survey or report for a Property,and correct or cause to be corrected any deficiency, the curing of which is a condition of continued licensure or for full participation in Medicare or Medicaid for existing patients or for new patients to be admitted with Medicare or Medicaid coverage, by the date required for cure by such agency (plus any extensions of time granted by such agency). (m) Borrowers have previously delivered to Lender the Annual Budget (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) for each Property for the 2002 Fiscal Year. At least thirty (30) days prior to the commencement of each subsequent Fiscal Year during the term of the Loan, Borrowers shall deliver to Lender for approval an Annual Budget (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis for the ensuing Fiscal Year and, promptly after preparation thereof, any subsequent revisions to the Annual Budget (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). Without the prior written consent of Lender, no Borrower shall approve or consent to any Mortgage Borrower entering into any contracts or other agreements nor expending any funds not provided for in the Annual Budget (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement), other than expenditures required to be made by reason of the occurrence of any emergency. At the request of Lender, each Equity Borrower agrees to cause the related Mortgage Borrowers to deliver evidence in a form satisfactory to Lender that amounts allocated to budgeted expenses have been paid in accordance with the approved Annual Budget (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). (n) As soon as available, and in any event within one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, each Borrower shall cause each Guarantor to furnish to Lender, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis, financial statements prepared for such year with respect to Guarantors, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such year, together with related statements of income and members' or partners' capital for such Fiscal Year, audited by a "Big Four" accounting firm or a nationally recognized, independent certified public accounting firm reasonably satisfactory to Lender whose opinion shall be to the effect that such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis and shall not be qualified as to the scope of the audit or as to the status of each Guarantor as a going concern. Together with each Guarantor's annual financial statements, each Borrower shall cause each Guarantor to furnish to Lender an Officer's Certificate certifying as of the date thereof whether to the best of such Guarantor's knowledge there exists an event or circumstance which constitutes a Default (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) or Event of Default (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) by any Guarantor under any guaranty and if such Default or Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same. (o) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event the Parent makes a public offering of its stock and become subject to public record disclosure, Mortgage Borrowers shall provide Lender with copies of all financial statements, filed by Parent with the Securities and Exchange Commission within two (2) days of such filing. 51
4.1.7. Title to the Properties and Collateral. Each Property Borrower will warrant and defend the valtidity and priority of the Liens of the Mortgages and the Assignments of Leases on the Mezzanine Properties against the claims of all Persons whomsoever, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances. Each Equity Borrower will warrant and defend the validity and priority of Lender's security interest in the Collateral. 4.1.8. Estoppel Statement. (a) After request by Lender, each Borrower shall within ten (10) Business Days furnish Lender with a statement, duly acknowledged and certified, stating (i) the unpaid principal amount of the Note, (ii) the Interest Rate of the Note, (iii) the date installments of interest and/or principal were last paid, (iv) any offsets or defenses to the payment of the Debt, if any, and (v) that this Agreement and the other Loan Documents have not been modified or if modified, giving particulars of such modification. (b) Each Borrower shall deliver to Lender, upon request, an estoppel certificate from each tenant under any Lease (other than tenants under patient admission and resident care agreements) at any of the Properties; provided that such certificate may be in the form required under such Lease; provided further that each Borrower shall not be required to deliver such certificates more frequently than two (2) times in any calendar year. 4.1.9. Intentionally Deleted. 4.1.10. Alterations. Lender's prior approval shall be required in connection with any alterations to any Improvements (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) on any Property (a) that may have a Material Adverse Effect on any Borrower's or Mortgage Borrower's financial condition, the value of the related Property or the Net Operating Income or (b) the cost of which (including any related alteration, improvement or replacement) is reasonably anticipated to exceed the Alteration Threshold (as defined herein and in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). If the total unpaid amounts incurred and to be incurred with respect to such alterations to the Improvements to any Mezzanine Property shall at any time exceed the Alteration Threshold, Borrowers shall promptly deliver to Lender as security for the payment of such amounts and as additional security for each Borrowers' obligations under the Loan Documents any of the following: (i) cash, (ii) U.S. Obligations, (iii) other securities acceptable to Lender, provided that Lender shall have received a Rating Agency Confirmation as to the form and issuer of same, or (iv) a completion bond, provided that Lender shall have received a Rating Agency Confirmation as to the form and issuer of same. Such security shall be in an amount equal to the excess of the total unpaid amounts incurred and to be incurred with respect to such alterations to the Improvements on the applicable Mezzanine Property (other than such amounts to be paid or reimbursed by Tenants under the Leases) over the Alteration Threshold. 52
4.1.11. Use-Specific Covenants. (a) Each Property Borrower shall: (i) operate each Mezzanine Property or cause each Mezzanine Property to be operated in substantial compliance with the laws and requirements referred to in Section 3.1.40 hereof; (ii) operate each Mezzanine Property or cause each Mezzanine Property to be operated in a manner such that the Regulatory Permits shall remain in full force and effect; (iii) maintain or cause to be maintained the number and type of licensed beds at each Mezzanine Property at the licensure/certification levels set forth in Schedule III; provided, however, a Property Borrower may remove from service a number of licensed beds at its Property by not more than the greater of ten (10) beds and ten percent (10%) of the number of licensed beds at such Property immediately prior to the proposed reduction provided such removal from service is on a temporary basis and Borrower delivers to Lender from each applicable Governmental Authority written evidence that such removal from service is on a temporary, and not permanent, basis and that such beds may be placed back into service without approval from any Governmental Authority. Nothing shall permit the Property Borrower to adjust the number of Licensed Beds at the facility; and (iv) to the extent applicable, substantially comply with all requirements for participation in Medicare, Medicaid and any other Third Party Payor Programs, and shall keep in full force and effect a current provider agreement under Medicare, Medicaid and any other Third Party Payor Programs as are financially prudent. (b) Each Property Borrower shall cause the operation of each Mezzanine Property to be conducted at all times in a manner consistent with the following: (i) to maintain or cause to be maintained the standard of operations at each Mezzanine Property at all times at a level necessary to insure a level of quality for each Mezzanine Property consistent with similar facilities in the same competitive market; (ii) to maintain or cause to be maintained a standard of care in the storage, use, transportation and disposal of all medical equipment, medical supplies, medical products and medical waste, of any kind and in any form, that is in accordance at least, with that of the highest prudent industry standard and in substantial conformity with all applicable Legal Requirements; (iii) to operate or cause each Mezzanine Property to be operated in a prudent manner in substantial compliance in all respects with applicable Legal 53
Requirements and requirements of the Policies relating thereto and, except where the failure to maintain their effectiveness could not have a Material Adverse Effect, cause all licenses, Regulatory Permits, and any other agreements necessary for the continued use and operation of such Mezzanine Property or for participation in the Medicare, Medicaid or other Third Party Payor Programs to remain in full force and effect; (iv) to maintain or cause to be maintained sufficient Inventory and Equipment of types and quantities at each Mezzanine Property to enable the applicable Property Borrower to operate such Mezzanine Property. 4.1.12. Material Agreements. No Borrower shall amend, modify, surrender or waive any material rights or remedies under, or enter into or terminate, any Material Agreement unless any such amendment, modification, surrender, waiver, entry or termination would not have a Material Adverse Effect. 4.1.13. Notices. Each Borrower shall give notice, or cause notice to be given, to Lender promptly upon the occurrence of: (a) any Event of Default under the Mortgage Loan; (b) to the knowledge of Borrower, any default or event of default under any contractual obligation of any Mortgage Borrower or any Guarantor that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower, the ability of Borrower to perform under the Loan Documents or the rights and remedies of Lender under the Loan Documents; (c) to the knowledge of Borrower, any litigation or proceeding affecting any Mortgage Borrower or any Guarantor, in which the amount involved in each case is $100,000 or more and not fully covered by insurance, or in which injunctive or similar relief is sought; (d) to the knowledge of Borrower, any change in the business, operations, property or financial or other condition or prospects of any Mortgage Borrower or any Guarantor which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on Borrower, the ability of Borrower to perform under the Loan Documents or the rights and remedies of Lender under the Loan Documents. 4.1.14. Special Distributions. On each date on which amounts are required to be disbursed to the Debt Service Account pursuant to the terms of the Mezzanine Cash Management Agreement or are required to be paid to Lender under any of the Loan Documents, each Equity Borrower shall exercise its rights under the related Mortgage Borrower Company Agreement to cause the related Mortgage Borrowers to make to such Equity Borrower a distribution in an aggregate amount such that Lender shall receive the amount required to be disbursed to the Debt Service Account or otherwise paid to Lender on such date. 54
4.1.15. Curing. Lender shall have the right, but shall not have the obligation, to exercise each Equity Borrower's rights under the related Mortgage Borrower Company Agreement (a) to cure an Event of Default under the Mortgage Loan and (b) to satisfy any Liens, claims or judgments against any Mortgage Property (except for Liens permitted by the Mortgage Loan Documents), in the case of either (a) or (b), unless such Equity Borrower or the related Mortgage Borrower shall be diligently pursuing remedies to cure to Lender's sole satisfaction. Each Equity Borrower shall reimburse Lender on demand for any and all costs incurred by Lender in connection with curing any such Event of Default under the Mortgage Loan or satisfying any Liens, claims or judgments against any Mortgage Property. 4.1.16. Mortgage Loan Documents. Each Equity Borrower agrees to cause each related Mortgage Borrower to comply with the terms and provisions of the Mortgage Loan Documents. 4.1.17. Options to Extend. With respect to any Ground Lease with an option to extend the term of such Ground Lease, Borrower shall exercise such extension upon the request of the Lender. Section 4.2. Borrower Negative Covenants. Until all amounts are paid in full under the Loan Documents (excluding contingent indemnity obligations that survive repayment), each Borrower covenants and agrees with Lender that: 4.2.1. Due on Sale and Encumbrance; Transfers of Interests. Without the prior written consent of Lender, neither any Borrower, any Mortgage Borrower nor any Person having a direct or indirect interest ownership or beneficial interest in any Borrower, any Mortgage Borrower or any Guarantor shall sell, convey, mortgage, grant, bargain, encumber, pledge, assign or otherwise Transfer any interest, direct or indirect in any Borrower, any Mortgage Borrower, any Guarantor, any of the Properties or Collateral or any part thereof, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, in violation of the covenants and conditions set forth in the Mortgages, this Agreement or the Master Guaranty; provided, that this Section shall not prohibit transfers of equity interest in the Parent permitted under Section 8.2. 4.2.2. Liens. Each Borrower shall not create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any portion of any of the Collateral or any of the Properties except for Permitted Encumbrances (as defined herein and, as to the Mortgage Properties, as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). 4.2.3. Issuance of Equity Interests. Each Borrower shall not issue or allow to be created any stocks or shares or shareholder, partnership or membership interests in any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower, or other ownership interests other than the stocks, shares, shareholder, partnership or membership interests and other ownership interests which are outstanding or exist on the Closing Date or any security or other instrument which by its terms is 55
convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for stock, shares, shareholder, partnership or membership interests or other ownership interests in any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower. 4.2.4. Change in Business. Each Borrower shall not cease to be a Single-Purpose Entity, each Equity Borrower shall cause each Mortgage Borrower to not cease to be a Single-Purpose Entity (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement), or make any material change in the scope or nature of any such entity's business objectives, purposes or operations, or undertake or participate in activities other than the continuance of its present business provided, however, with the prior written consent of the Lender, not to be unreasonably withheld, and, after a Securitization of the Loan, a Rating Agency Confirmation, a Borrower may amend its business operations at a Property to include a Specialty Hospital (in which event Schedule III hereto shall be amended to reflect such amendment). 4.2.5. Debt Cancellation. Each Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Mortgage Borrower to, cancel or otherwise forgive or release any claim or debt (other than termination of Leases in accordance herewith) owed to any Borrower or any Mortgage Borrower by any Person, except for adequate consideration and in the ordinary course of any Borrower's or Mortgage Borrower's business. 4.2.6. Affiliate Transactions. Each Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Mortgage Borrower to, enter into, or be a party to, any transaction with an Affiliate of any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower or any of the partners of any Borrower or Mortgage Borrower except in the ordinary course of business and on terms which are fully disclosed to Lender in advance and are no less favorable to such Borrower or Mortgage Borrower or such Affiliate than would be obtained in a comparable arm's-length transaction with an unrelated third party. 4.2.7. Zoning. Each Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Mortgage Borrower to, initiate or consent to any zoning reclassification of any portion of any of the Properties or seek any variance under any existing zoning ordinance or use or permit the use of any portion of any of the Properties in any manner that could result in such use becoming a non-conforming use under any zoning ordinance or any other applicable land use law, rule or regulation, without the prior consent of Lender. 4.2.8. Assets. Each Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Mortgage Borrower to, purchase or own any properties other than the Properties and any other property necessary or incidental for the operation of the Properties. Each Borrower shall not purchase or own any property other than the Collateral. 4.2.9. No Joint Assessment. Each Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Mortgage Borrower to, suffer, permit or initiate the joint assessment of any Property (i) with any other real property constituting a tax lot separate from such Property, and (ii) with any portion of such Property which may be deemed to constitute personal property, or any other procedure whereby the lien of any taxes which may be levied against such personal property shall be assessed or levied or charged to such Property. 56
4.2.10. Principal Place of Business. Each Borrower shall not, and shall not permit any Mortgage Borrower to change its jurisdiction of organization or its name without first obtaining the written consent of Lender. 4.2.11. ERISA. (a) Each Borrower shall not engage in any transaction which would cause any obligation, or action taken or to be taken, hereunder (or the exercise by Lender of any of its rights under the Note, this Agreement or the other Loan Documents) to be a non-exempt (under a statutory or administrative class exemption) prohibited transaction under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). (b) Each Borrower shall deliver to Lender such certifications or other evidence from time to time throughout the term of the Loan, as requested by Lender in its sole discretion, that (A) such Borrower is not and does not maintain an "employee benefit plan" as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, which is subject to Title I of ERISA, or a "governmental plan" within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA; (B) such Borrower is not subject to state statutes regulating investments and fiduciary obligations with respect to governmental plans; and (C) one or more of the following circumstances is true: (i) Equity interests in such Borrower are publicly offered securities, within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.(S)2510.3-101(b)(2); (ii) Less than twenty-five percent (25%) of each outstanding class of equity interests in such Borrower are held by "benefit plan investors" within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.(S)2510.3-101(f)(2); or (iii) Such Borrower qualifies as an "operating company" or a "real estate operating company" within the meaning of 29 C.F.R.(S)2510.3-101(c) or (e). 4.2.12. Other Indebtedness. Each Borrower shall not incur, create, assume or become liable in any manner with respect to any Indebtedness, except the Debt and the Permitted Debt and each Borrower shall not permit each Mortgage Borrower to incur, create, assume or become liable in any manner with respect to any Indebtedness, except the Debt (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) and the Permitted Debt (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). Each Borrower may obtain so-called "accounts receivable" financing with respect to any Property (or its operations therein) ("AR Financing") provided (i) the terms and conditions of this Section 4.2.12 have been satisfied; (ii) such Borrower obtains Lender's consent to the terms thereof; and (ii) no Event of Default exists hereunder. Lender shall not unreasonably withhold its consent to any AR Financing provided that the amount of such AR Financing is reasonable given the financial condition of Borrower and the applicable Property and Lender is presented with an intercreditor agreement on terms acceptable to it in its reasonable discretion. 57
4.2.13. Use-Specific Negative Covenants: Each Property Borrower shall not and shall not allow the Manager, if any, to: (a) transfer any Regulatory Permits to any location other than the related Mezzanine Property nor pledge any Regulatory Permits (except certain Regulatory Permits pledged to HUD for THI of Maryland at Fort Washington, LLC) as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness other than the Loan; (b) rescind, withdraw, revoke, amend, modify, supplement, or otherwise alter the nature, tenor or scope of (i) any Regulatory Permit for any Mezzanine Property or (ii) any applicable provider payment program participation for any Mezzanine Property; (c) except as permitted by the proviso to Section 4.1.11(a)(iii), amend or otherwise change any Mezzanine Property's authorized bed capacity and/or the number or type of beds, and/or licensing category or type and/or the number of beds participating in governmental payment programs approved by the applicable state licensing agency, CMS or other Governmental Authority without Lender's prior written consent which may be given or denied in Lender's sole discretion; (d) replace or transfer all or any part of any Mezzanine Property's licensed beds to another site or location, change the type of licensed beds at any Mezzanine Property or reduce the number of licensed beds at any Mezzanine Property; (e) apply for approval to (i) move any licensed beds to another site or location, (ii) change the type of licensed beds at any Mezzanine Property or (iii) reduce the number of licensed beds at any Mezzanine Property; (f) jeopardize in any manner any Borrower's participation in any Third Party Payor Programs to which any Borrower is subject as of the Closing Date; provided, to the extent financially prudent and consistent with the terms of the Loan Agreement, each Property Borrower may terminate participation in any Third Party Payor Program with any private commercial insurance to the extent such termination could not have a Material Adverse Effect; (g) pledge any receivables as collateral security for any loan or indebtedness other than the Loan; (h) enter into any patient or resident care agreements with patients or residents or with any other persons which deviate in any material respect from the standard form customarily used by any Property Borrower at any Mezzanine Property; (i) change the terms of any of the Third Party Payors' Programs or its normal billing payment or reimbursement policies and procedures with respect thereto (including 58
without limitation the amount and timing of finance charges, fees and write-offs); provided a Property Borrower may enter into changes which do not have a Material Adverse Effect; or (j) assign or transfer any of its interest in any Regulatory Permit or Reimbursement Contract (including any right to payment thereunder) or assign, transfer or remove or permit any other person to assign, transfer or remove any records pertaining to any Mezzanine Property including, without limitation, patient records, medical and clinical records (except for removal of such patient records as directed by the patients owning such records). 4.2.14. Limitations on Distributions. Subject to the terms of the Master Guaranty, following the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, no Borrower shall make any distributions to its members. 4.2.15. Other Limitations. Prior to the payment in full of the Debt, no Borrower shall, and no Borrower shall permit any Mortgage Borrower to, without the prior written consent of Lender (which may be furnished or withheld at its sole and absolute discretion), give its consent or approval to any of the following actions or items: (a) except as permitted by Lender herein, (i) any refinance of the Mortgage Loan, (ii) any prepayment in full of the Mortgage Loan, (iii) any Transfer of any Mortgage Property or any portion thereof, or (iv) any action in connection with or in furtherance of the foregoing; (b) creating, incurring, assuming or suffering to exist any additional Liens on any portion of any Mortgage Property except for Permitted Encumbrances (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement). (c) any modification, amendment, consolidation, spread, restatement, waiver or termination of any of the Mortgage Loan Documents; (d) approve the terms of any Annual Budget (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement); (e) the distribution to the partners, members or shareholders of any Mortgage Borrower of property other than cash; (f) except as set forth in the Annual Budget (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement) or as permitted under the Mortgage Loan Documents, any (i) improvement, renovation or refurbishment of all or any part of any Mortgage Property to a materially higher standard or level than that of comparable properties in the same market segment and in the same geographical area as such Mortgage Property, (ii) removal, demolition or material alteration of the improvements or equipment on any Mortgage Property or (iii) material increase in the square footage or gross leasable area of the improvements on any Mortgage Property if a material portion of any of the expenses in connection therewith are paid or incurred by any Mortgage Borrower; 59
(g) any material change in the method of conduct of the business of any Borrower or any Mortgage Borrower, such consent to be given in the sole discretion of the Lender; (h) the settlement of any claim against any Borrower or any Mortgage Borrower, other than a fully insured third party claim, in any amount greater than $10,000 (in the case of any Borrower) or $10,000 (in the case of any Mortgage Borrower), such consent to be given in the sole discretion of the Lender; or (i) except as required by the Mortgage Loan Documents, any determination to restore any Mortgage Property after a casualty or condemnation. ARTICLE V. INSURANCE, CASUALTY AND CONDEMNATION Section 5.1. Insurance. 5.1.1. Insurance Policies. (a) The Borrowers shall obtain and maintain, or cause to be maintained, insurance for such Borrower and the Mezzanine Properties providing at least the following coverages: (i) coverage for loss or damage by fire, lightning, wind and such other perils as are included in a standard "all risk" or "special causes of loss" endorsement and against loss or damage by other risks and hazards covered by a standard property insurance policy including, without limitation, riot, civil commotion, vandalism, malicious mischief, burglary and theft on the Improvements and the personal property at each Mezzanine Property, including contingent liability from Operation of Building Laws, Demolition Costs and Increased Cost of Construction Endorsements, in each case (A) in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the "Full Replacement Cost," which for purposes of this Agreement shall mean actual replacement value (exclusive of costs of excavations, foundations, underground utilities and footings) with a waiver of depreciation, but the amount shall in no event be less than the Loan Amount; (B) containing an agreed amount endorsement with respect to the Improvements and personal property at the Mezzanine Properties waiving all co-insurance provisions; (C) providing for no deductible in excess of Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,000) for all such insurance coverage; and (D) containing (a) an "Ordinance or Law Coverage" or "Enforcement" endorsement and (b) "demolition" insurance (in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the value of the Improvements) and "increased cost of construction" insurance (equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the value of the Improvements at any Mezzanine Property, if any of the Improvements or the use of such Mezzanine Property shall at any time constitute legal non-conforming structures or uses. In addition, each Property Borrower shall obtain: (y) if any portion of the Improvements at any Mezzanine Property is currently or at any time in the future located in a federally designated "special flood hazard area", flood hazard insurance in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the 60
"Full Replacement Cost" (defined above) but no less than the Allocated Loan Amount of the applicable Mezzanine Property or (2) the maximum amount of such insurance available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 or the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994, as each may be amended; and (z) earthquake insurance in amounts and in form and substance satisfactory to Lender in the event any Mezzanine Property is located in an area with a high degree of seismic activity, provided that the insurance pursuant to clauses (y) and (z) hereof shall be on terms consistent with the comprehensive all risk insurance policy required under this subsection (i). (ii) commercial general liability insurance against claims for personal injury, bodily injury, death or property damage occurring upon, in or about the Mezzanine Properties, such insurance (A) to be on the so-called "occurrence" form with a combined limit, excluding umbrella coverage, of not less than One Million and No/100 Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence with a minimum Two Million and No/100 Dollars ($3,000,000) general aggregate with limits applying on a "per location" basis; (B) to continue at not less than the aforesaid limit until required to be changed by Lender by reason of changed economic conditions making such protection inadequate; and (C) to cover at least the following hazards: (1) premises and operations; (2) products and completed operations on an "if any" basis; (3) independent contractors; (4) blanket contractual liability for all legal contracts; (5) contractual liability covering the indemnities contained in Article 9 of the related Mortgage to the extent the same is available; (6) broad form property damage; (7) personal injury (including death resulting therefrom); (8) healthcare professional liability and (9) a liquor liability endorsement if alcoholic beverages are sold at any Mezzanine Property and (D) providing for no deductible in excess of Ten Thousand and No Dollars ($10,000). (iii) business interruption insurance (A) with loss payable to Lender; (B) covering all risks required to be covered by the insurance provided for in subsection (i) above and (xi) below; (C) in an amount sufficient to avoid any co-insurance penalty and to provide proceeds which will cover a period of not less than eighteen (18) months from the date of casualty or loss; (D) containing an extended period of indemnity endorsement which provides that after the physical loss to the applicable Mezzanine Property has been repaired, the continued loss of income will be insured until such income returns to the same level it was prior to the loss, or the expiration twenty-four (24) months from the date of the loss, whichever first occurs, and notwithstanding that the policy may expire prior to the end of such period. The amount of coverage shall be an annual aggregate amount equal to the projected gross revenue from the Mezzanine Properties, assuming the aggregate occupancy at such Mezzanine Properties equals ninety-five percent (95%). The amount of coverage shall be adjusted annually by Lender to reflect the projected gross revenue during the succeeding eighteen (18) month period; (iv) at all times during which structural construction, repairs or alterations are being made with respect to any of the Improvements, and only if the 61
Mezzanine Property's coverage form does not otherwise apply, (A) owner's contingent or protective liability insurance covering claims not covered by or under the terms or provisions of the above mentioned commercial general liability insurance policy; and (B) the insurance provided for in subsection (i) above written in a so-called builder's risk completed value form (1) on a non-reporting basis, (2) against all risks insured against pursuant to subsection (i) above, (3) including permission to occupy the applicable Mezzanine Property, and (4) with an agreed amount endorsement waiving co-insurance provisions; (v) workers' compensation, subject to the statutory limits of the state in which the applicable Mezzanine Property is located, and employer's liability insurance with a limit of at least One Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($100,000) per accident and per disease per employee, and Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($500,000) aggregate in respect of any work or operations on or about any Mezzanine Property, or in connection with any Mezzanine Property or its operation (if applicable); (vi) broad form boiler and machinery insurance (without exclusion for explosion) covering all boilers or other pressure vessels, machinery, and equipment located in, on or about any Mezzanine Property (including "system breakdown coverage") in an amount equal to or greater than the repair and full replacement cost of such equipment and insurance against loss of occupancy or use arising from any breakdown of such equipment in such amounts as are generally required by institutional lenders for properties comparable to the Mezzanine Properties; (vii) umbrella liability insurance in addition to primary coverage in an amount not less than Twenty-Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($25,000,000) per occurrence on terms consistent with the commercial general liability insurance policy required under subsection (ii) above that cover all claims typically covered by an umbrella liability policy including all legal liability imposed upon any Property Borrower and all court costs and attorneys' fees connection with the ownership, operation and maintenance of the Mezzanine Properties; (viii) motor vehicle liability coverage for all owned and non-owned vehicles, including rented and leased vehicles containing minimum limits per occurrence, including umbrella coverage, of One Million and No/100 Dollars ($1,000,000); (ix) if alcoholic beverages are sold at any Mezzanine Property, so-called "dramshop" insurance or other liability insurance required in connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages; (x) insurance against employee dishonesty in an amount not less than six (6) months of gross revenue from any Mezzanine Properties and with a deductible not greater than Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,000); 62
(xi) If the insurance required under clause (i) above excludes coverage for acts of terrorism, the Borrowers shall provide terrorism insurance coverage in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the "Full Replacement Cost" (defined above) but no less than the Allocated Loan Amount of the Mezzanine Properties or (2) the maximum amount of such insurance which is commercially reasonably available, unless at the time of determination: (i) it is not available at commercially reasonable rates; (ii) no Affiliates of any Property Borrower are maintaining terrorism insurance with respect to another property; (iii) terrorism insurance is not commonly maintained by owners of other similar properties and (iv) terrorism insurance is not required for loans similar to the Loan and secured by property similar to the Mezzanine Properties; and (xii) such other reasonable insurance and in such reasonable amounts as Lender from time to time may reasonably request against such other insurable hazards or casualties which at the time are commonly insured against for property similar to the Mezzanine Properties located in or around the region in which the Mezzanine Properties are located including, without limitation, sinkhole, mine subsidence and environmental insurance, due regard being given to the height and type of property, construction, location, use and occupancy. (b) All insurance provided for in Section 5.1.1(a) shall be obtained under valid and enforceable policies (collectively, the "Policies" or in the singular, the "Policy") and, to the extent not specified above, shall be subject to the approval of Lender as to deductibles, loss payees and insureds. Not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration dates of the Policies theretofore furnished to Lender, certificates of insurance evidencing the Policies accompanied by evidence satisfactory to Lender of payment of the premiums then due thereunder (the "Insurance Premiums"), shall be delivered by Property Borrowers to Lender. Property Borrowers shall deliver certified copies of the Policies to Lender within thirty (30) days of the Closing Date and thereafter upon request. All Policies must have a term of not less than one (1) year. Equity Borrowers shall cause Mortgage Borrowers to deliver to Lender copies of all deliveries made by Mortgage Borrowers to Mortgage Lender under Section 5.1(b) of the Mortgage Loan Agreement. (c) Any blanket insurance Policy shall specifically allocate to each Mezzanine Property the amount of coverage from time to time required hereunder and shall otherwise provide the same protection as would a separate Policy insuring only such Mezzanine Property in compliance with the provisions of Section 5.1.1(a). (d) All Policies of insurance provided for or contemplated by Section 5.1.1(a), except for the Policy referenced in Section 5.1.1(a)(v), shall name each applicable Property Borrower as the insured and Lender and its successors and/or assigns as the additional insured, as its interests may appear, and in the case of property damage, terrorism insurance, boiler and machinery, flood and earthquake insurance, shall contain a so-called New York standard non-contributing mortgagee clause in favor of Lender providing that the loss thereunder shall be payable to Lender. 63
(e) All Policies of insurance provided for in Section 5.1.1(a) shall contain clauses or endorsements to the effect that: (i) no act or negligence of any Property Borrower, or anyone acting for any Property Borrower, or of any tenant or other occupant, or failure to comply with the provisions of any Policy, which might otherwise result in a forfeiture of the insurance or any part thereof, shall in any way affect the validity or enforceability of the insurance insofar as Lender is concerned; (ii) the Policy shall not be materially changed (other than to increase the coverage provided thereby) or canceled without at least thirty (30) days' written notice to Lender and any other party named therein as an additional insured; (iii) Lender shall not be liable for any Insurance Premiums thereon or subject to any assessments thereunder; and (iv) to the extent available at commercially reasonable rates, a waiver of subrogation rights as to Lender. (f) If at any time Lender is not in receipt of written evidence that all insurance required hereunder is in full force and effect, Lender shall have the right, without notice to any Property Borrower, to take such action as Lender deems necessary to protect its interest in the Mezzanine Properties, including, without limitation, the obtaining of such insurance coverage as Lender in its sole discretion deems appropriate and all premiums incurred by Lender in connection with such action or in obtaining such insurance and keeping it in effect shall be paid by Borrowers to Lender upon demand and until paid shall be secured by the Mortgages and shall bear interest at the Default Rate. (g) In the event of foreclosure of any Mortgage or other transfer of title to any Mezzanine Property in extinguishment in whole or in part of the Debt, all right, title and interest the applicable Borrower in and to the Policies that are not blanket Policies then in force concerning the Mezzanine Properties and all proceeds payable thereunder shall thereupon vest in the purchaser at such foreclosure or Lender or other transferee in the event of such other transfer of title. (h) Each Equity Borrower will cause the related Mortgage Borrowers to comply with all of the provisions of Article V of the Mortgage Loan Agreement. 5.1.2. Insurance Company. The Policies shall be issued by one or more domestic primary insurance companies, duly qualified in the jurisdiction where the Mezzanine Properties are located and rated A: VII or better by A.M. Best and having a claims-paying ability of at least "AA" or its equivalent by each of the Rating Agencies, or by a syndicate of insurers through which at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the coverage (if there are four (4) or fewer members of the syndicate) or at least sixty percent (60%) of the coverage (if there are five (5) or more members of the syndicate) is with carriers having such claims-paying ability ratings 64
(provided that all such carriers shall have claims-paying ability ratings of not less than "A" or the equivalent by each of the Rating Agencies). Section 5.2. Casualty And Condemnation. 5.2.1. Casualty. If a Mezzanine Property shall sustain a Casualty, each Borrower shall give prompt notice of such Casualty to Lender (provided that notice shall not need to be required for a Casualty which causes less than $50,000 worth of damage to a Mezzanine Property) and, provided Lender permits the applicable Borrower to utilize the Net Proceeds, if any, for any such Restoration, shall promptly commence and diligently prosecute to completion the repair and restoration of any Mezzanine Property as nearly as possible to the condition such Mezzanine Property was in immediately prior to such Casualty (a "Restoration") and otherwise in accordance with Section 5.3. At the same time any Mortgage Borrower provides Mortgage Lender of notice of a Casualty to any Mortgage Property, Borrowers shall cause such notice to be delivered to Lender. Borrowers shall pay all costs of such Restoration whether or not such costs are covered by insurance. Lender may, but shall not be obligated to, make proof of loss if not made promptly by any Borrower. In the event of a Casualty where the loss does not exceed the Restoration Threshold, a Borrower may settle and adjust such claim; provided that (a) no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (b) such adjustment is carried out in a commercially reasonable and timely manner. In the event of a Casualty where the loss exceeds the Restoration Threshold or if an Event of Default then exists, a Borrower may settle and adjust such claim only with the consent of Lender (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and Lender shall have the opportunity to participate, at Borrowers' cost, in any such adjustments. Notwithstanding any Casualty, each Borrower shall continue to pay the Debt at the time and in the manner provided for its payment in the Note and in this Agreement. 5.2.2. Condemnation. Each Borrower shall give Lender prompt notice of any actual or threatened Condemnation by any Governmental Authority of all or any part of any Mezzanine Property (provided that notice shall not be required for a Condemnation which could result in less than $50,000 in Condemnation Proceeds) and shall deliver to Lender a copy of any and all papers served in connection with such proceedings. At the same time any Mortgage Borrower provides Mortgage Lender with notice of any Condemnation to any Mortgage Property, Borrowers shall cause such notice to be delivered to Lender. Provided no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, in the event of a Condemnation where the amount of the taking does not exceed the Restoration Threshold, a Borrower may settle and compromise such Condemnation; provided that the same is effected in a commercially reasonable and timely manner. In the event a Condemnation where the amount of the taking exceeds the Restoration Threshold or if an Event of Default then exists, a Borrower may settle and compromise the Condemnation only with the consent of Lender (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and Lender shall have the opportunity to participate, at Borrowers' cost, in any litigation and settlement discussions in respect thereof and each Borrower shall from time to time deliver to Lender all instruments requested by Lender to permit such participation. Each Borrower shall, at its expense, diligently prosecute any such proceedings, and shall consult with 65
Lender, its attorneys and experts, and cooperate with them in the carrying on or defense of any such proceedings. Notwithstanding any Condemnation, each Borrower shall continue to pay the Debt at the time and in the manner provided for its payment in the Note and in this Agreement. Lender shall not be limited to the interest paid on the Award by any Governmental Authority but shall be entitled to receive out of the Award interest at the rate or rates provided herein or in the Note. If any Mezzanine Property or any portion thereof is taken by any Governmental Authority and provided Lender permits the applicable Borrower to utilize the Net Proceeds, if any, for the Restoration of the applicable Property, each Borrower shall promptly commence and diligently prosecute the Restoration of such Mezzanine Property and otherwise comply with the provisions of Section 5.3. If such Mezzanine Property is sold, through foreclosure or otherwise, prior to the receipt by Lender of the Award, Lender shall have the right, whether or not a deficiency judgment on the Note shall have been sought, recovered or denied, to receive the Award, or a portion thereof sufficient to pay the Debt. Section 5.3. Delivery of Net Proceeds. 5.3.1. Minor Casualty or Condemnation. If a Casualty or Condemnation has occurred to a Mezzanine Property and the Net Proceeds shall be less than the Restoration Threshold and the costs of completing the Restoration shall be less than the Restoration Threshold, and provided no Event of Default shall have occurred and remain uncured, the Net Proceeds will be disbursed by Lender to the applicable Borrower. Promptly after receipt of the Net Proceeds, such Borrower shall commence and satisfactorily complete with due diligence the Restoration in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. If any Net Proceeds are received by any Borrower and may be retained by such Borrower pursuant to the terms hereof, such Net Proceeds shall, until completion of the Restoration, be held in trust for Lender and shall be segregated from other funds of such Borrower to be used to pay for the cost of Restoration in accordance with the terms hereof. 5.3.2. Major Casualty or Condemnation. (a) If a Casualty or Condemnation has occurred to a Mezzanine Property and the Net Proceeds are equal to or greater than the Restoration Threshold or the costs of completing the Restoration is equal to or greater than the Restoration Threshold, Lender shall make the Net Proceeds available for the Restoration, provided that each of the following conditions are met: (i) no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; (ii) (A) in the event the Net Proceeds are insurance proceeds, less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total floor area of the Improvements at the applicable Mezzanine Property has been damaged, destroyed or rendered unusable as a result of such Casualty or (B) in the event the Net Proceeds are an Award, less than ten percent (10%) of the land constituting applicable Mezzanine Property is taken, and such land is located along the perimeter or periphery of the Mezzanine Property, and no portion of the Improvements is the subject of the Condemnation; 66
(iii) (A) in the event of a Casualty, the Casualty resulted in an actual or constructive loss of less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the fair market value of the applicable Mezzanine Property or (B) in the event of a Condemnation, the Condemnation resulted in an actual or constructive loss of less than ten percent (10%) of the fair market value of the applicable Mezzanine Property. (iv) Intentionally Deleted. (v) The applicable Borrower shall commence the Restoration as soon as reasonably practicable (but in no event later than sixty (60) days after such Casualty or Condemnation, or such longer period, not to exceed 120 days, as is reasonably necessary to adjust the claim or receive the award; provided, however, with respect to each Mezzanine Property the use of which is a legal non-conforming use under applicable Legal Requirements, the Restoration shall be commenced within such period as required by such Legal Requirements to maintain such status) and shall diligently pursue the same to satisfactory completion and, in any event, as to each Mezzanine Property the use of which is a legal non-conforming use under applicable Legal Requirements, within such period as required by such Legal Requirements to maintain such status; (vi) Lender shall be satisfied that any operating deficits and all payments of principal and interest under the Note will be paid during the period required for Restoration from (A) the Net Proceeds, or (B) other funds of the applicable Borrower; (vii) Lender shall be satisfied that the Restoration will be completed on or before the earliest to occur of (A) the date six (6) months prior to the Maturity Date, (B) such time as may be required under applicable Legal Requirements in order to repair and restore the applicable Mezzanine Property to the condition it was in immediately prior to such Casualty or to as nearly as possible the condition it was in immediately prior to such Condemnation, as applicable or (C) the expiration of the insurance coverage referred to in Section 5.1.1(a)(iii); (viii) Lender shall be satisfied that after the Restoration, the fair market value of the applicable Mezzanine Property will be at least equal to the fair market value of such Mezzanine Property prior to the Casualty or Condemnation; (ix) the applicable Mezzanine Property and the use thereof after the Restoration will be in substantial compliance with and permitted under all applicable Legal Requirements; (x) the Restoration shall be done and completed by the applicable Borrower in an expeditious and diligent fashion and in substantial compliance with all applicable Legal Requirements; and 67
(xi) such Casualty or Condemnation, as applicable, does not result in the loss of access to the applicable Mezzanine Property or the related Improvements. (b) The Net Proceeds shall be paid directly to Lender and held by Lender in the Net Proceeds Account, and until disbursed in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3.2, shall constitute additional security for the Debt. The Net Proceeds shall be disbursed by Lender to, or as directed by, the applicable Borrower from time to time during the course of the Restoration, upon receipt of evidence satisfactory to Lender that (A) all requirements set forth in Section 5.3.2(a) have been satisfied, (B) all materials installed and work and labor performed (except to the extent that they are to be paid for out of the requested disbursement) in connection with the Restoration have been paid for in full, and (C) there exist no notices of pendency, stop orders, mechanic's or materialman's liens or notices of intention to file same, or any other liens or encumbrances of any nature whatsoever on the applicable Mezzanine Property arising out of the Restoration which have not either been fully bonded to the satisfaction of Lender and discharged of record or in the alternative fully insured to the reasonable satisfaction of Lender by the title company issuing the Title Insurance Policy. (c) All plans and specifications required in connection with the Restoration shall be subject to prior approval of Lender and an independent architect selected by Lender (the "Casualty Consultant"). The plans and specifications shall require that the Restoration be completed in a first-class workmanlike manner at least equivalent to the quality and character of the original work in the Improvements (provided, however, that in the case of a partial Condemnation, the Restoration shall be done to the extent reasonably practical after taking into account the consequences of such partial Condemnation), so that upon completion thereof, the applicable Mezzanine Property is restored to be of at least equal value and of substantially the same character as prior to the Casualty. The applicable Borrower shall restore all Improvements such that when they are fully restored and/or repaired, such Improvements and their contemplated use substantially comply with all applicable material Legal Requirements. The identity of the contractors, subcontractors and materialmen engaged in the Restoration, as well as the contracts under which they have been engaged, shall be subject to reasonable approval of Lender and the Casualty Consultant. All costs and expenses incurred by Lender in connection with recovering, holding and advancing the Net Proceeds for the Restoration including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements and the Casualty Consultant's fees and disbursements, shall be paid by Borrowers. (d) In no event shall Lender be obligated to make disbursements of the Net Proceeds in excess of an amount equal to the costs actually incurred from time to time for work in place as part of the Restoration, as certified by the Casualty Consultant, less the Casualty Retainage. The term "Casualty Retainage" shall mean, as to each contractor, subcontractor or materialman engaged in the Restoration, an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the costs actually incurred for work in place as part of the Restoration, as certified by the Casualty Consultant, until the Restoration has been completed. The Casualty Retainage shall in no event, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth above in this Section 5.3.2(d), be less than 68
the amount actually held back by the applicable Borrower from contractors, subcontractors and materialmen engaged in the Restoration. The Casualty Retainage shall not be released until the Casualty Consultant certifies to Lender that the Restoration has been completed in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3.2(d) and that all approvals necessary for the re-occupancy and use of the applicable Mezzanine Property have been obtained from all appropriate Governmental Authorities, and Lender receives evidence satisfactory to Lender that the costs of the Restoration have been paid in full or will be paid in full out of the Casualty Retainage; provided, however, that Lender will release the portion of the Casualty Retainage being held with respect to any contractor, subcontractor or materialman engaged in the Restoration as of the date upon which the Casualty Consultant certifies to Lender that the contractor, subcontractor or materialman has satisfactorily completed all work and has supplied all materials in accordance with the provisions of the contractor's, subcontractor's or materialman's contract, the contractor, subcontractor or materialman delivers the lien waivers and evidence of payment in full of all sums due to the contractor, subcontractor or materialman as may be reasonably requested by Lender or by the title company issuing the Title Insurance Policy, and Lender receives an endorsement to the Title Insurance Policy insuring the continued priority of the lien of the related Mortgage and evidence of payment of any premium payable for such endorsement. If required by Lender, the release of any such portion of the Casualty Retainage shall be approved by the surety company, if any, which has issued a payment or performance bond with respect to the contractor, subcontractor or materialman. (e) Lender shall not be obligated to make disbursements of the Net Proceeds more frequently than once every calendar month. (f) If at any time the Net Proceeds or the undisbursed balance thereof shall not, in the opinion of Lender in consultation with the Casualty Consultant, be sufficient to pay in full the balance of the costs which are reasonably estimated by the Casualty Consultant to be incurred in connection with the completion of the Restoration, Borrowers shall deposit the deficiency (the "Net Proceeds Deficiency") with Lender before any further disbursement of the Net Proceeds shall be made. The Net Proceeds Deficiency deposited with Lender shall be held by Lender in the Net Proceeds Account and shall be disbursed for costs actually incurred in connection with the Restoration on the same conditions applicable to the disbursement of the Net Proceeds, and until so disbursed pursuant to this Section 5.3.2 shall constitute additional security for the Debt. (g) The excess, if any, of the Net Proceeds and the remaining balance, if any, of the Net Proceeds Deficiency deposited with Lender after the Casualty Consultant certifies to Lender that the Restoration has been completed in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.3.2, and the receipt by Lender of evidence satisfactory to Lender that all costs incurred in connection with the Restoration have been paid in full, shall be remitted by Lender to the applicable Borrower, provided no Event of Default shall have occurred and shall be continuing under any of the Loan Documents. 69
(h) All Net Proceeds not required (i) to be made available for the Restoration or (ii) to be returned to a Borrower as excess Net Proceeds pursuant to Section 5.3.2(g) may be retained and applied by Lender toward the payment of the Debt, whether or not then due and payable, in such order, priority and proportions as Lender in its sole discretion shall deem proper without any Prepayment Premium, or, at the discretion of Lender, the same may be paid, either in whole or in part, to a Borrower for such purposes as Lender shall designate. ARTICLE VI. ACCOUNTS Section 6.1. Mezzanine Cash Management Account/Mezzanine Collection Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank an account for the collection of all income from each Mezzanine Property and any deposits from the Mortgage Cash Management Account with respect to the Mortgage Properties (the "Mezzanine Cash Management Account"). As a condition precedent to the closing of the Loan, Borrowers shall cause the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank to execute and deliver the Mezzanine Cash Management Agreement, which provides, inter alia, that no party other than Lender and Servicer shall have the right to withdraw funds from the Mezzanine Cash Management Account. The fees and expenses of the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank shall be paid by Borrower. On or prior to the Closing Date, the Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Mezzanine Collection Account Bank a lockbox account (the "Mezzanine Collection Account"). As a conditon precedent to the closing of the Loan, Borrowers shall cause the Mezzanine Collection Account Bank to execute and deliver the Mezzanine Collection Account Agreement, which provides, inter alia, that no party other than Lender and Servicer shall have the right to withdraw funds from the Mezzanine Collection Account. The fees and expenses of the Mezzanine Collection Account Bank shall be paid by the Borrowers. (b) On the Closing Date, with respect to each Mezzanine Property, each Borrower shall deliver a written notice (a "Payor Notice") to each Third Party Payor that is under Medicare and Medicaid, which notice shall provide that (A) all payments from such Third Party Payor shall thereafter be transmitted directly by it to, and deposited directly into, the Mezzanine Collection Account and (B) such instruction may not be rescinded unless and until such Third Party Payor receives from a Borrower or Lender a copy of Lender's written consent to such rescission. Each Borrower shall send a copy of each such written notice to Lender and shall re-deliver such notices to each Third Party Payor until such time as such Third Party Payor complies therewith. Each Borrower covenants to cause all Rents relating to the Mezzanine Properties and all other money received by each Borrower or Manager with respect to the Mezzanine Properties, including, but not limited to, payments from all other Third Party Payors (excluding Medicare and Medicaid) ("Private Third Party Payors") and Self-Pay Receivables to be deposited in the Mezzanine Collection Account by the end of the first (1st) Business Day following any Borrower's or Manager's receipt thereof; and each Borrower shall be permitted to deposit in the Mezzanine Collection Account such additional amounts as any Borrower may 70
elect. The parties acknowledge and agree that with respect to each Mezzanine Property, the payments from the Private Third Party Payors and the Self-Pay Receivables constituting checks will be remitted by each Borrower once such Borrower has accumulated $1,000.00 worth of such checks, by overnight delivery to Manager. Manager shall hold such checks in trust and will deposit such checks within one (1) Business Day of receipt. (c) Lender shall have the right to replace the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank or the Mezzanine Collection Account Bank with any other Eligible Institution in which Eligible Accounts may be maintained which will promptly execute and deliver to Lender a Mezzanine Cash Management Agreement or Mezzanine Collection Account Agreement, (and each Borrower shall cooperate with Lender in connection with such transfer) in the event that (i) at any time the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank or the Mezzanine Collection Account Bank ceases to be an Eligible Institution or (ii) the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank or the Mezzanine Collection Account Bank resigns or otherwise fails to comply with the Mezzanine Cash Management Agreement, as applicable or (iii) there is a default by the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank or the Mezzanine Collection Account Bank, as applicable under its Mezzanine Cash Management Agreement or Mezzanine Collection Account Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Lender shall have the right to hold the Collateral Accounts at any other Eligible Institution. Section 6.2. Distributions From Mezzanine Cash Management Account. (a) At the end of each Business Day, the Mezzanine Collection Account Bank shall remit all available funds in the Mezzanine Collection Account to the Mezzanine Cash Management Account. (b) On each Business Day, provided no Event of Default has occurred and no Mezzanine Cash Management Period exists, the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Mezzanine Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds in the following order of priority until such time as the maximum amount required to be deposited in each Collateral Account has been so deposited: (i) to the Ground Rent Escrow Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.10 (ii) to the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.3; (iii) to the Debt Service Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.4; (iv) to the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.6; and 71
(v) any remaining amounts shall be disbursed to such account as the applicable Borrower may direct. (c) If a Mezzanine Cash Management Period exists but no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank shall withdraw on each Business Day all available funds in the Mezzanine Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds in the following order of priority until such time as the maximum amount required to be deposited in each Collateral Account has been so deposited: (i) to the Ground Rent Escrow Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.10 (ii) to the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.3; (iii) to the Debt Service Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.4; (iv) to the Operating Expense Reserve Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.5; (v) to the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account, the amount required to be deposited therein pursuant to Section 6.6; and (vi) any remaining amounts to be disbursed to the Debt Service Account to be applied to the prepayment of the Loan. (d) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Lender shall promptly notify Mezzanine Cash Management Bank of such Event of Default and Lender may, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided for under the Loan Documents, disburse and apply the amounts in the Mezzanine Cash Management Account toward the payment of the Debt and/or toward the payment of Basic Carrying Costs, Operating Expenses for the Mezzanine Properties or Capital Expenditures, in such sequence as Lender shall elect in its sole discretion. (e) If on any Payment Date, any Collateral Account has not been fully funded in the applicable amount described in Section 6.2(b) or Section 6.2(c), as applicable, Borrowers shall deposit into the Mezzanine Cash Management Account on such Payment Date the amount of such deficiency. If Borrowers shall fail to make such deposit, the same shall constitute an Event of Default and, in addition to all other rights and remedies provided for under the Loan Documents, Lender may disburse and apply the amounts in the Mezzanine Cash Management Account toward the payment of the Debt and/or toward the payment of Basic Carrying Costs, Operating Expenses or for the Mezzanine Properties Capital Expenditures, in such sequence as Lender shall elect in its sole discretion. 72
Section 6.3. Tax and Insurance Escrow Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts payable by any Borrower in respect of Taxes and Insurance Premiums for each Mezzanine Property (the "Tax and Insurance Escrow Account"). (b) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account shall be funded in an amount equal to the sum of (i) an amount sufficient to pay all Taxes for the Mezzanine Properties by the thirtieth (30th) day prior to the date they come due, assuming subsequent monthly fundings on Payment Dates of one-twelfth (1/12th) of projected annual Taxes, plus (ii) an amount sufficient to pay all Insurance Premiums for the Mezzanine Properties by the thirtieth (30th) day prior to the date they come due, assuming subsequent monthly fundings on Payment Dates of one-twelfth (1/12th) of projected Insurance Premiums. (c) On each subsequent Business Day during an Interest Accrual Period, the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Mezzanine Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds into the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 6.2 until an amount equal to the sum of: (A) one-twelfth (1/12th) of the Taxes for the Mezzanine Properties that Lender reasonably estimates, based on information provided by Borrowers, will be payable during the next ensuing twelve (12) months, plus (B) one-twelfth (1/12th) of the Insurance Premiums for the Mezzanine Properties that Lender reasonably estimates, based on information provided by Borrowers, will be payable during the next ensuing twelve (12) months; has been deposited into the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account provided, however, that if at any time Lender reasonably determines that the amount in the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account will not be sufficient to accumulate (upon payment of subsequent monthly amounts in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement) the full amount of all installments of Taxes and Insurance Premiums for the Mezzanine Properties by the date on which such amounts come due, then Lender shall notify Borrowers of such determination and Borrowers shall increase the monthly payments to the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account by the amount that Lender reasonably estimates is sufficient to achieve such accumulation. (d) Each Borrower shall provide Lender with copies of all tax and insurance bills relating to each Mezzanine Property promptly after the applicable Borrower's receipt thereof. Lender will apply amounts in the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account toward the purposes for which such amounts are deposited therein. In connection with the making of any payment from the Tax and Insurance Escrow Account, Lender may cause such payment to be made according to any bill, statement or estimate procured from the appropriate public office or insurance carrier, without inquiry into the accuracy of such bill, statement or estimate or into the 73
validity of any tax, assessment, sale, forfeiture, tax lien or title or claim thereof unless given written advance notice by a Borrower of such inaccuracy, invalidity or other contest. Section 6.4. Debt Service Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts payable by Borrowers in respect of Debt Service (the "Debt Service Account"). (b) On each Business Day during an Interest Accrual Period, the Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Mezzanine Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds into the Debt Service Account in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 6.2 until an amount equal to the amount of all scheduled or delinquent interest on the Loan and other amounts due and payable under the Loan Documents on the next Payment Date has been deposited into the Debt Service Account; provided, however, the amounts to be applied in prepayment of the Loan due to the occurrence of a Mezzanine Cash Management Event shall be deposited at such time as described in Section 6.2(c)(vi). To the extent Lender receives any prepayments of the Debt in an Interest Accrual Period on a date other than a Payment Date, the total amount of such prepayment shall be deposited into the Debt Service Account, together with all other sums payable with respect to such prepayment including, but not limited to, any Prepayment Premium and all interest that would have accrued from the date of such prepayment through the applicable Payment Date. Any Net Proceeds actually received by Lender shall be deposited directly into the Net Proceeds Account pursuant to Section 6.8 hereof. Section 6.5. Operating Expense Reserve Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts in respect of Operating Expenses for the Mezzanine Properties (the "Operating Expense Reserve Account"). (b) On each Business Day during a Mezzanine Cash Management Period, the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Mezzanine Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds into the Operating Expense Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 6.2 until an amount equal to the funds necessary to pay all Operating Expenses for the Mezzanine Properties which are (A) to be incurred during the applicable Interest Accrual Period in accordance with the Annual Budget, or (B) certified by Borrowers from time to time and approved by Lender in its sole discretion, has been deposited into the Operating Expense Reserve Account. (c) Upon the request of a Borrower at any time, provided that no Event of Default has occurred, Lender shall remit to such Borrower from the Operating Expense Reserve Account amounts to permit such Borrower to pay (or to reimburse such Borrower) for 74
Operating Expenses incurred by such Borrower in connection with any of the Mezzanine Properties, provided that: (i) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender invoices evidencing that the costs for which such disbursements are requested are due and payable; (ii) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender an Officer's Certificate confirming that all such costs are within the limits of the Annual Budget and all such costs have been previously paid by such Borrower or will be paid from the proceeds of the requested disbursement; and (iii) Lender may condition the making of a requested disbursement on reasonable evidence establishing that each Borrower has applied any amounts previously received by it in accordance with this Section for the expenses to which specific draws made hereunder relate. Section 6.6. Capital Expenditure Reserve Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts in respect of Capital Expenditures (the "Capital Expenditure Reserve Account"). (b) On each Business Day, the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Mezzanine Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds into the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account in accordance with the provisions set forth in Section 6.2 until an amount equal to the Monthly Capital Expenditure Reserve Amount has been deposited therein. (c) Upon the request of any Borrower at any time (but not more often than once per calendar month), provided no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Lender shall remit to such Borrower from the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account amounts to permit such Borrower to pay (or to reimburse such Borrower) for Capital Expenditures made in accordance herewith; provided that: (i) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender invoices evidencing that the costs for which such disbursements are requested are due and payable; (ii) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender an Officer's Certificate confirming that all such costs have been previously paid by such Borrower or will be paid from the proceeds of the requested disbursement; and (iii) Lender may condition the making of a requested disbursement on (1) reasonable evidence establishing that each Borrower has applied any amounts previously received by it in accordance with this Section for the expenses to 75
which specific draws made hereunder relate, (2) a reasonably satisfactory site inspection, and (3) receipt of lien releases and waivers from any contractors, subcontractors and others in connection with such amounts. Section 6.7. Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts anticipated to be required to correct Deferred Maintenance Conditions (the "Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account"). (b) On the Closing Date, Borrowers shall deposit into the Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account, from the proceeds of the Loan, an amount equal to the Deferred Maintenance Amount. (c) Borrowers shall correct the Deferred Maintenance Conditions in a diligent, workmanlike manner and shall complete the same within twelve (12) months of the Closing Date. Upon the request of a Borrower at any time (but not more often than once per calendar month), provided no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, Lender shall disburse to such Borrower from the Deferred Maintenance and Environmental Escrow Account amounts to permit such Borrower to pay (or to reimburse such Borrower) for reasonable costs and expenses incurred in order to correct Deferred Maintenance Conditions; provided that: (i) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender invoices evidencing that the costs for which such disbursements are requested are due and payable; (ii) Such Borrower shall deliver to Lender an Officer's Certificate confirming that all such costs have been previously paid by Borrower or will be paid from the proceeds of the requested disbursement; (iii) Lender may condition the making of a requested disbursement on (1) reasonable evidence establishing that each Borrower has applied any amounts previously received by it in accordance with this Section for the expenses to which specific draws made hereunder relate, (2) a reasonably satisfactory site inspection, and (3) receipt of lien releases and waivers from any contractors, subcontractors and others with respect to such amounts; and (iv) as to any Deferred Maintenance Condition, the applicable Borrower shall only be entitled to a disbursement of the amount equal to the cost for such Deferred Maintenance Condition. 76
Section 6.8. Net Proceeds Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of depositing any Net Proceeds (the "Net Proceeds Account") from the Properties. (b) Provided no Event of Default has occurred, funds in the Net Proceeds Account shall be applied in accordance with Section 5.3. Section 6.9. Intentionally Deleted. Section 6.10. Ground Rent Escrow Account. (a) On or prior to the Closing Date, Borrowers shall establish and thereafter maintain with the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank an account for the purpose of reserving amounts payable by Borrower in respect of Ground Rent (the "Ground Rent Escrow Account"). (b) On or prior to the Closing Date, the Ground Rent Escrow Account shall be funded in an amount sufficient to pay the Ground Rent by the thirtieth (30th) day prior to the date such Ground Rent comes due, assuming subsequent monthly fundings on Payment Dates of one-twelth (1/12) of annual Ground Rent. On each subsequent Business Day, the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank shall withdraw all available funds in the Mezzanine Cash Management Account and shall disburse such funds into the Ground Rent Escrow Account until an amount equal to one-twelth 1/12 of the Ground Rent that Lender reasonably estimates, based on information provided by Borrowers, will be payable during the next ensuing twelve (12) months, has been deposited into the Ground Rent Escrow Account, provided, however, that if at any time Lender reasonably determines that the amount in the Ground Rent Escrow Account will not be sufficient to accumulate (upon payment of subsequent monthly amounts in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement) the full amount of all installments of Ground Rent by the date on which such amounts come due, then Lender shall notify Borrowers of such determination and Borrowers shall increase the monthly payments to the Ground Rent Escrow Account by the amount that Lender reasonably estimates is sufficient to achieve such accumulation. (c) Each applicable Borrower shall provide Lender with copies of all bills for Ground Rent promptly after such Borrower's receipt thereof. Lender will apply amounts in the Ground Rent Escrow Account toward the purposes for which such amounts are deposited therein. In connection with the making of any payment from the Ground Rent Escrow Account, Lender may cause such payment to be made according to any bill, statement or estimate submitted by the applicable Borrower, without inquiry into the accuracy of such bill, statement or estimate. 77
Section 6.11. Account Collateral. (a) Each Borrower hereby grants a perfected first-priority security interest in favor of Lender in and to the Account Collateral (other than the Collection Account) as security for the Debt, together with all rights of a secured party with respect thereto. Each Collateral Account shall be an Eligible Account under the sole dominion and control of Lender and shall be in the name of Borrowers, as pledgors, and Lender, as pledgee. Each Borrower shall have no right to make withdrawals from any of the Collateral Accounts. Funds in the Collateral Accounts shall not be commingled with any other monies at any time. Each Borrower shall execute any additional documents that Lender in its reasonable discretion may require and shall provide all other evidence reasonably requested by Lender to evidence or perfect its first-priority security interest in the Account Collateral (other than the Collection Account). (b) The insufficiency of amounts contained in the Collateral Accounts shall not relieve any Borrower from its obligation to fulfill all covenants contained in the Loan Documents. (c) During the continuance of an Event of Default, Lender may, in its sole discretion, apply funds in the Collateral Accounts, and funds resulting from the liquidation of Permitted Investments contained in the Collateral Accounts, toward the payment of the Debt and/or toward the payment of Basic Carrying Costs, Operating Expenses for the Mezzanine Properties or Capital Expenditures in such sequence as Lender shall elect in its sole discretion. Section 6.12. Permitted Investments. (a) So long as no Event of Default shall be continuing, Borrowers shall be permitted to direct the investment of the funds from time to time held in the Collateral Accounts (other than the Collection Account) in Permitted Investments and to sell or liquidate such Permitted Investments and reinvest proceeds from such sale or liquidation in other Permitted Investments (but Lender shall have no liability whatsoever in respect of any failure by the Mezzanine Cash Management Bank to do so), with all such proceeds and reinvestments to be held in the applicable Collateral Account; provided, however, that the maturity of an adequate portion of the Permitted Investments on deposit in the Collateral Accounts shall be no later than the Business Day immediately preceding the date on which such funds are required to be withdrawn therefrom pursuant to this Agreement, and provided further that Borrowers shall remit into the applicable Collateral Account an amount equal to any losses realized on Permitted Investments contained therein within five (5) Business Days of the date of such loss. Funds in the Collection Account shall not be invested. No Permitted Investment shall be liquidated at a loss at the direction of any Borrower except to the extent necessary to make a required payment to Lender on a Payment Date. (b) All income and gains from the investment of funds in the Collateral Accounts shall be retained in the Collateral Accounts from which they were derived. As between Borrowers and Lender, Borrowers shall treat all income, gains and losses from the 78
investment of amounts in the Collateral Accounts as its income or loss for federal, state and local income tax purposes. (c) After the Debt has been paid in full, the Collateral Accounts shall be closed and the balances therein, if any, shall be paid to Borrowers. Section 6.13. Bankruptcy. Each Borrower and Lender acknowledge and agree that upon the filing of a bankruptcy petition by or against any Borrower under the Bankruptcy Code, the Account Collateral and the Operating Income relating to the Borrowers or the Mezzanine Properties (whether then already in the Collateral Accounts, or then due or becoming due thereafter) shall be deemed not to be property of such Borrower's bankruptcy estate within the meaning of Section 541 of the Bankruptcy Code. However, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that, notwithstanding the foregoing characterization of the Account Collateral and the Operating Income relating to the Borrowers or the Mezzanine Properties by any Borrower and Lender, the Account Collateral and/or the Operating Income relating to the Borrowers or the Mezzanine Properties do constitute property of such Borrower's bankruptcy estate, then Borrowers and Lender further acknowledge and agree that all such Operating Income relating to the Borrowers or the Mezzanine Properties, whether due and payable before or after the filing of the petition, are and shall be cash collateral of Lender. Each Borrower acknowledges that Lender does not consent to any Borrower's use of such cash collateral and that, in the event Lender elects (in its sole discretion) to give such consent, such consent shall only be effective if given in writing signed by Lender. Except as provided in the immediately preceding sentence, each Borrower shall not have the right to use or apply or require the use or application of such cash collateral (i) unless the applicable Borrower shall have received a court order authorizing the use of the same, and (ii) the applicable Borrower shall have provided such adequate protection to Lender as shall be required by the bankruptcy court in accordance with the Bankruptcy Code. Section 6.14. Letters of Credit. (a) In lieu of making the payments to any of the Collateral Accounts (other than the Debt Service or Operating Expense Reserve Account), Borrowers may deliver to Lender a Letter of Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Section. Additionally, Borrowers may deliver to Lender a Letter of Credit in accordance with the provisions of this Section in lieu of deposits previously made to the Collateral Accounts (other than the Debt Service or Operating Expense Reserve Account). The aggregate amount of any Letter of Credit and cash on deposit with respect to any of such Collateral Accounts shall at all times be at least equal to the aggregate amount which each Borrower is required to have on deposit in such Collateral Account pursuant to this Agreement through the end of the calendar year in which the Letter of Credit is delivered, as reasonably estimated by Lender (and in the case of Taxes and Insurance Premiums in no event less than an amount equal to one year of Insurance Premiums and estimated Taxes for the Mezzanine Properties). In determining the aggregate amount of any Letter of Credit and cash required to be delivered to Lender in respect of the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account, such aggregate amounts shall equal all amounts required to be deposited 79
hereunder through the end of the calendar year in which the Letter of Credit is delivered, less amounts expended by any Borrower for Capital Expenditures for which any Borrower has satisfied the conditions to withdrawal from the Capital Expenditure Reserve Account. In the event that a Letter of Credit is delivered in lieu of any deposits to the Tax and Insurance Reserve Account, Borrowers shall be responsible for the payment of Taxes or Insurance Premiums for the Mezzanine Properties, as applicable, and Lender shall not be responsible therefor. (b) Borrowers shall give Lender no less than thirty (30) days notice of a Borrower's election to deliver a Letter of Credit and Borrowers shall pay to Lender all of Lender's reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses in connection therewith. Each Borrower shall not be entitled to draw from any such Letter of Credit. Upon thirty (30) days notice to Lender, a Borrower may replace a Letter of Credit with a cash deposit to the applicable Collateral Account if a Letter of Credit has been outstanding for more than six (6) months. Prior to the return of a Letter of Credit, Borrowers shall deposit an amount equal to the amount that would have accumulated in the applicable Collateral Account and not been disbursed in accordance with this Agreement if such Letter of Credit had not been delivered. (c) Each Borrower shall provide Lender with notice of any increases in the annual payments for Taxes, Insurance Premiums, Capital Expenditures or Ground Rent for any of the Mezzanine Properties thirty (30) days prior to the effective date of any such increase and any applicable Letter of Credit shall be increased by such increased amount at least ten (10) days prior to the effective date of such increase. Section 6.15. Provisions Regarding Letters of Credit. 6.15.1. Security for Debt. Each Letter of Credit delivered under this Agreement shall be additional security for the payment of the Debt. Upon the occurrence of a Default or an Event of Default, Lender shall have the right, at its option, to draw on any Letter of Credit and to apply all or any part thereof to the payment of the items for which such Letter of Credit was established or to apply each such Letter of Credit to payment of the Debt in such order, proportion or priority as Lender may determine. Any such application to the Debt shall be subject to the Prepayment Premium. 6.15.2. Additional Rights of Lender. In addition to any other right Lender may have to draw upon a Letter of Credit pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, Lender shall have the additional rights to draw in full any Letter of Credit: (a) if Lender has received a notice from the issuing bank that the Letter of Credit will not be renewed and a substitute Letter of Credit is not provided at least thirty (30) days prior to the date on which the outstanding Letter of Credit is scheduled to expire; (b) upon receipt of notice from the issuing bank that the Letter of Credit will be terminated (except if the termination of such Letter of Credit is permitted pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement or a substitute Letter of Credit is provided); or (c) if the bank issuing the Letter of Credit shall cease to be an Eligible Institution and any Borrower fails to deliver a replacement Letter of Credit within ten (10) days of the date that the issuing bank is no longer an Eligible Institution. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the above, Lender is not obligated to draw any Letter of Credit upon the 80
happening of an event specified in (a), (b) or (c) above and shall not be liable for any losses sustained by any Borrower due to the insolvency of the bank issuing the Letter of Credit if Lender has not drawn the Letter of Credit. ARTICLE VII. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Section 7.1. The Management Agreement. Each Property Borrower shall cause Manager to manage the Mezzanine Properties in accordance in all material respects with the Management Agreement. Each Property Borrower shall (i) diligently perform and observe in all material respects all of the terms, covenants and conditions of the Management Agreement on the part of such Property Borrower to be performed and observed (ii) promptly notify Lender of any default by Manager under the provisions of the Management Agreement and (iii) promptly notify Lender of any notice to any Property Borrower of any default by such Property Borrower in the performance or observance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of the Management Agreement on the part of such Property Borrower to be performed and observed. If any Property Borrower shall default in the performance or observance of any material term, covenant or condition of the Management Agreement on the part of such Property Borrower to be performed or observed, then, without limiting Lender's other rights or remedies under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, and without waiving or releasing any Property Borrower from any of its obligations hereunder or under the Management Agreement, Lender shall have the right, but shall be under no obligation, to pay any sums and to perform any act as may be appropriate to cause all the material terms, covenants and conditions of the Management Agreement on the part of any Property Borrower to be performed or observed. Each Equity Borrower shall cause the related Mortgage Borrowers to comply with terms and provisions of Article VII of the Mortgage Loan Agreement. Section 7.2. Prohibition Against Termination or Modification. No Property Borrower shall surrender, terminate, cancel, amend, modify, renew or extend the Management Agreement, or enter into any other agreement relating to the management or operation of any Mezzanine Property with Manager or any other Person, or consent to the assignment by Manager of its interest under the Management Agreement, in each case without the express consent of Lender, which consent may be granted or denied in Lender's sole discretion; provided, however, with respect to a new manager such consent may be conditioned upon delivering a Rating Agency Confirmation as to such new manager and management agreement. If at any time Lender consents to the appointment of a new manager, such new manager and Borrowers shall, as a condition of Lender's consent, execute a subordination of management agreement in the form then used by Lender. The management fees and other fees reserved under the Management Agreement shall not exceed in the aggregate the prevailing rate for properties of comparable size, quality and tenant mix in the market in which the Mezzanine Properties are located. In no event shall such fees exceed seven percent (7%) of the Operating Income for the applicable Mezzanine Property. 81
Section 7.3. Replacement of Manager. Lender shall have the right to require the Property Borrowers to terminate the Management Agreement and to replace the Manager with a Person chosen by the Property Borrowers and approved by Lender, upon the occurrence of any one or more of the following events: (i) at any time following the occurrence of an Event of Default, (ii) if Manager shall be in default under the Management Agreement or the Assignment of Management Agreement beyond any applicable notice and cure period, (iii) if at any time Manager has engaged in gross negligence, malfeasance, fraud or willful misconduct and (iv) if the Debt Service Coverage Ratio is less than 1.25:1.00. ARTICLE VIII. TRANSFERS Section 8.1. Transfer of the Properties and Collateral. Each Borrower may not transfer, and each Equity Borrower may not permit any Mortgage Borrower to transfer, any of the Properties to another party (i) unless Lender shall have consented in writing to such transfer which consent may be granted or denied in Lender's sole discretion, (ii) after a Securitization has occurred, Rating Agency Confirmation is obtained, (iii) acceptable opinions relating to such transfer shall have been delivered by Borrowers to Lender and to the Rating Agencies (including without limitation tax and non-consolidation opinions), (iv) the transferee assumes in writing all obligations of the transferor under the Loan Documents and executes and delivers such other documentation as may be required by Lender or the Rating Agencies, (v) Borrowers pay an assumption fee equal to one half of one percent (.5%) of the Loan Amount and (vi) Borrowers pay all reasonable expenses incurred by Lender in connection with such transfer. Each Equity Borrower shall not Transfer any of its interests in the Collateral without the prior written consent of the Lender which may be granted or denied in its sole consent. Section 8.2. Transfer of Equity Interests. Any transfer of any direct or indirect equity interests in any Borrower shall be prohibited unless (i) Lender shall have consented in writing to such transfer or transfers which may be granted or denied in Lender's sole discretion, (ii) Rating Agency Confirmation is obtained, (iii) acceptable opinions relating to such transfer or transfers shall have been delivered by Borrowers to Lender and the Rating Agencies (including, without limitation, tax and non-consolidation opinions), and (iv) Borrowers pay all reasonable expenses incurred by Lender in connection with such transfer or transfers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, transfers of interests in the Parent which do not constitute a Change of Control (as defined in the Master Guaranty) to the extent permitted under the Master Guaranty shall be permitted hereunder. Section 8.3. Lender's Consent Rights. Lender shall not be required to demonstrate any actual impairment of its security or any increased risk of default hereunder in order to declare the Debt immediately due and 82
payable upon a Transfer without Lender's consent. This provision shall apply to every Transfer, other than any Transfer permitted pursuant to Sections 8.1 and 8.2, regardless of whether voluntary or not, or whether or not Lender has consented to any previous Transfer. ARTICLE IX. SALE AND SECURITIZATION OF MORTGAGE Section 9.1. Sale of Mortgages and Securitization. (a) Lender shall have the right (i) to sell or otherwise transfer the Loan or any portion thereof as a whole loan, (ii) to sell participation interests in the Loan or (iii) to securitize the Loan or any portion thereof in a single asset securitization or a pooled loan securitization. (The transaction referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) shall hereinafter be referred to collectively as "Secondary Market Transactions" and the transactions referred to in clause (iii) shall hereinafter be referred to as a "Securitization." Any certificates, notes or other securities issued in connection with a Securitization are hereinafter referred to as "Securities"). (b) If requested by Lender, each Borrower shall assist Lender in satisfying the market standards to which Lender customarily adheres or which may be reasonably required in the marketplace or by the Rating Agencies in connection with any Secondary Market Transactions, including, without limitation, to: (i) (A) provide updated financial and other information with respect to the Properties, the business operated at the Properties, each Borrower, each Mortgage Borrower and the Managers, (B) provide updated budgets relating to the Properties and (C) provide updated appraisals, market studies, environmental assessments (Phase I's and, if appropriate, Phase II's), property condition reports and other due diligence investigations of the Properties (the "Updated Information"), together, if customary, with appropriate verification of the Updated Information through letters of auditors or opinions of counsel acceptable to Lender and the Rating Agencies; (ii) provide opinions of counsel, which may be relied upon by Lender, the Rating Agencies and their respective counsel, agents and representatives, as to non-consolidation or any other opinion customary in Secondary Market Transactions or required by the Rating Agencies with respect to the Properties and Borrowers and Affiliates, which counsel and opinions shall be satisfactory to Lender and the Rating Agencies; (iii) provide updated, as of the closing date of the Secondary Market Transaction, representations and warranties made in the Loan Documents and such additional representations and warranties as the Rating Agencies may require; and (iv) execute amendments to the Loan Documents and any Borrower's organizational documents reasonably requested by Lender; provided, however, that such Borrower shall not be required to modify or amend any Loan Document if such modification or amendment would (A) change the interest rate, the 83
stated maturity or the amortization of principal as set forth herein or in the Note, or (B) modify or amend any other material economic term of the Loan. (c) Each Borrower acknowledges that the Loan may be further divided into two or more separate notes (or components) that correspond to one or more tranches of certificates created in a Securitization and each Borrower agrees to cooperate with Lender in connection therewith. Such notes or note components may be assigned different interest rates, so long as the weighted average of such interest rates equals the applicable Interest Rate; provided, that each Borrower recognizes that, in the case of partial prepayments associated with principal reduction funded from Net Proceeds, the application of amounts to principal following an Event of Default under the Loan, or any other prepayment of a portion of the Loan by any Borrower, the weighted average interest rate of the Loan may increase because principal may be applied sequentially, starting with the most senior tranche of certificates. In addition, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that Lender shall have the right to split the Note into an "A" note and a "B" note and each Borrower agrees to cooperate with Lender in connection therewith in connection with the foregoing so long as the weighted average interest rate of the "A" note and the "B" note equals the applicable Interest Rate; provided, that each Borrower recognizes that, in the case of partial prepayments associated with principal reduction funded from Net Proceeds, the application of amounts to principal following an Event of Default under the Loan, or any other prepayment of a portion of the Loan by any Borrower, the weighted average interest rate of the Loan may increase because in certain circumstances principal may be applied sequentially to the "A" and the "B" note. Section 9.2. Securitization Indemnification. (a) Each Borrower understands that information provided to Lender by any Borrower and its agents, counsel and representatives may be included in disclosure documents in connection with the Securitization, including, without limitation, an offering circular, a prospectus, prospectus supplement, private placement memorandum or other offering document (each, an "Disclosure Document") and may also be included in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and may be made available to investors or prospective investors in the Securities, the Rating Agencies, and service providers relating to the Securitization. (b) Upon request, each Borrower shall provide in connection with each of (i) a preliminary and a final private placement memorandum or (ii) a preliminary and final prospectus or prospectus supplement, as applicable, an agreement (A) certifying that each Borrower has examined such Disclosure Documents specified by Lender and that each such Disclosure Document, as it relates to each Borrower, Borrower Affiliates, the Properties, Manager and all other aspects of the Loan (the "Relevant Material"), does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (B) indemnifying Lender (and for purposes of this Section 9.2, Lender hereunder shall include its 84
officers and directors and each Person that controls Lender within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act, collectively, the "Ventas Group"), the party that has filed the registration statement relating to the Securitization (the "Registration Statement"), each of its directors, each of its officers who have signed the Registration Statement and each Person that controls such party within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (collectively, the "Underwriter Group") for any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (collectively, the "Liabilities") to which Lender, Ventas Group or the Underwriter Group may become subject insofar as the Liabilities arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in the Relevant Material or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated in the Relevant Material or necessary in order to make the statements in the Relevant Material, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and (C) agreeing to reimburse Lender, the Ventas Group and/or the Underwriter Group for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by Lender, the Ventas Group and the Underwriter Group in connection with investigating or defending the Liabilities; provided, however, that each Borrower will be liable in any such case under clauses (B) or (C) above only to the extent that any such loss claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any such untrue statement or omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to Lender by or on behalf of any Borrower in connection with the preparation of the Disclosure Document or in connection with the underwriting or closing of the Loan, including, without limitation, financial statements of any Borrower, operating statements, rent rolls, appraisals, market studies, environmental site assessment reports and property condition reports with respect to the Properties. This indemnity will be in addition to any liability which any Borrower may otherwise have. (c) In connection with Exchange Act Filings, each Borrower shall (i) indemnify Lender, the Ventas Group and the Underwriter Group for Liabilities to which Lender, the Ventas Group or the Underwriter Group may become subject insofar as the Liabilities arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state in the Disclosure Document a material fact required to be stated in the Disclosure Document in order to make the statements in the Disclosure Document, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading and (ii) reimburse Lender, the Ventas Group or the Underwriter Group for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by Lender, the Ventas Group or the Underwriter Group in connection with defending or investigating the Liabilities. (d) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 9.2 of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 9.2, notify the indemnifying party in writing of the commencement thereof, but the omission to so notify the indemnifying party will not relieve the indemnifying party from any liability which the indemnifying party may have to any indemnified party hereunder except to the extent that failure to notify causes prejudice to the indemnifying party. In the event that any action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled, jointly with any other indemnifying party, to 85
participate therein and, to the extent that it (or they) may elect by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense thereof with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. After notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party under this Section 9.2, such indemnified party shall pay for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation; provided, however, if the defendants in any such action include both the indemnified party and the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there are any legal defenses available to it and/or other indemnified parties that are different from or additional to those available to the indemnifying party, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to select separate counsel to assert such legal defenses and to otherwise participate in the defense of such action on behalf of such indemnified party at the cost of the indemnifying party. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for the expenses of more than one separate counsel unless an indemnified party shall have reasonably concluded that there may be legal defenses available to it that are different from or additional to those available to another indemnified party. (e) In order to provide for just and equitable contribution in circumstances in which the indemnity agreement provided for in Section 9.2(b) or (c) is for any reason held to be unenforceable as to an indemnified party in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or action in respect thereof) referred to therein which would otherwise be indemnifiable under Section 9.2(b) or (c), the indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by the indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or action in respect thereof); provided, however, that no Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. In determining the amount of contribution to which the respective parties are entitled, the following factors shall be considered: (i) the applicable indemnified party's and each Borrower's relative knowledge and access to information concerning the matter with respect to which the claim was asserted; (ii) the opportunity to correct and prevent any statement or omission; and (iii) any other equitable considerations appropriate in the circumstances. Lender and each Borrower hereby agree that it would not be equitable if the amount of such contribution were determined by pro rata or per capita allocation. (f) The liabilities and obligations of both Borrowers and Lender under this Section 9.2 shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the satisfaction and discharge of the Debt. ARTICLE X. DEFAULTS Section 10.1. Event of Default. (a) Each of the following events shall constitute an event of default hereunder (an "Event of Default"): 86
(i) if any portion of the Debt is not paid when due or if any Borrower fails to pay any other amount payable pursuant to this Agreement (including, without limitation, any deposits or payments to the Collateral Accounts) or any other Loan Document when due and payable in accordance with the provisions hereof or thereof, as the case may be; (ii) subject to Borrowers' right to contest Taxes and Other Charges pursuant to Section 4.1.2 and provided Borrower is complying with the terms of such Section, if any of the Taxes or Other Charges are not paid when due; (iii) if the Policies are not kept in full force and effect; (iv) if any Borrower breaches or permits or suffers a breach of Article 6 of any Mortgage; (v) if any representation or warranty made by any Borrower herein or in any other Loan Document, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other instrument, agreement or document furnished to Lender shall have been false or misleading in any material respect as of the date the representation or warranty was made; (vi) if any Borrower shall make an assignment for the benefit of creditors; (vii) if a receiver, liquidator or trustee shall be appointed for any Borrower or if any Borrower shall be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or if any petition for bankruptcy, reorganization or arrangement pursuant to federal bankruptcy law, or any similar federal or state law, shall be filed by or against, consented to, or acquiesced in by, any Borrower, or if any proceeding for the dissolution or liquidation of any Borrower shall be instituted; provided, however, if such appointment, adjudication, petition or proceeding was involuntary and not consented to by any Borrower, upon the same not being discharged, stayed or dismissed within thirty (30) days; (viii) if any Borrower attempts to assign its rights under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents or any interest herein or therein in contravention of the Loan Documents; (ix) if any Borrower breaches any representation, warranty or covenant contained in the Pledge Agreement; (x) if any Borrower breaches any representation, warranty or covenant contained in Section 3.1.24 hereof or if any Borrower is not a Single-Purpose Entity or if any provision of any organizational document of any Borrower is amended or modified in any respect without the prior written consent of Lender; 87
(xi) if any Borrower shall continue to be in Default under any of the other terms, covenants or conditions of this Agreement not specified in subsections (i) to (x) above, for ten (10) days after notice to any Borrower from Lender, in the case of any Default which can be cured by the payment of a sum of money, or for thirty (30) days after notice from Lender in the case of any other Default; provided, however, that if such non-monetary Default is susceptible of cure but cannot reasonably be cured within such 30-day period and provided further that a Borrower shall have commenced to cure such Default within such 30-day period and thereafter diligently and expeditiously proceeds to cure the same, such 30-day period shall be extended for such time as is reasonably necessary for such Borrower in the exercise of due diligence to cure such Default, such additional period not to exceed sixty (60) days; (xii) if there shall be default under any of the other Loan Documents beyond any applicable cure periods contained in such Loan Documents, whether as to any Borrower or any of the Properties, or if any other such event shall occur or condition shall exist, if the effect of such event or condition is to accelerate the maturity of any portion of the Debt or to permit Lender to accelerate the maturity of all or any portion of the Debt; (xiii) if any Guarantor breaches any covenant, warranty or representation contained in any Loan Document to which it is a party, including, but not limited to, the Master Guaranty and Master Guaranty Pledge which is not remedied within any grace period; or (xiv) if any Borrower breaches any of the terms of: Section 2.4.2(b) (Mandatory Prepayments/Liquidation Events), Section 4.1.14 (Special Distributions), Section 4.2.1 (Due on Sale and Encumbrance), Section 4.2.2 (Liens), Section 4.2.3 (Issuance of Equity Interests) or Section 4.2.14 (Limitations on Distributions), Section 4.2.15 (Other Limitations); (xv) if a final unappealable determination shall have been made by any applicable Governmental Authority of any Borrower's non-compliance with material Legal Requirements applicable to any Mezzanine Property, or of the revocation of any material license, permit or approval required for the lawful operation of any Mezzanine Property, or any other circumstances under which any Borrower is required by a final unappealable determination of any such Governmental Authority to cease operations of such Mezzanine Property as a Nursing Facility, Assisted Living Facility or Specialty Hospital, in each case as described on the attached Schedule III (as such Schedule may be amended to show any change of use of any Property); (xvi) intentionally deleted; (xvii) if there is a reduction in the number of licensed beds or a change in the type of licensed beds for any Mezzanine Property in violation of the requirements of this Agreement; or 88
(xviii) if any Borrower shall fail to correct, within the time deadlines set by any Medicare, Medicaid, health, reimbursement, licensing or similar agency, any deficiency that justifies either of the following actions by such agency with respect to any Mezzanine Property and such agency commences either of the following actions: (1) a termination of any Medicare contract, Medicaid contract or Regulatory Permit; (2) a ban on new admissions generally or on admission of patients otherwise qualifying for Medicaid or Medicare coverage which ban is not lifted within sixty (60) days or as to which a Borrower fails to file a plan of correction within ten (10) days of such loan; (xix) if any Mezzanine Property is assessed material fines or penalties by any state or any Medicare, Medicaid, health, reimbursement, licensing or similar agency having jurisdiction over any Borrower or any Mezzanine Property; (xx) except as may be permitted pursuant to this Agreement, as to each Mezzanine Property, if any Borrower ceases to operate, or changes the use of, such Mezzanine Property as or from a Nursing Facility, Assisted Living Facility or Rehabilitation Hospital in each case as described on the attached Schedule III (as such Schedule may be amended to show any change of use of any Property) or terminates such business for any reason whatsoever (other than a temporary cessation in connection with any renovations); (xxi) if, with respect to any Mezzanine Property, any Governmental Authority (a) makes a substandard quality of care determination regarding such Mezzanine Property which determination is not corrected in sixty (60) days (or if incapable of being cured within such sixty (60) days period, within one hundred twenty (120) days provided Borrowers are taking all appropriate actions to correct such determination); (b) makes a determination that such Mezzanine Property is not in substantial compliance with any applicable regulatory requirements which determination is not corrected in sixty (60) days (or if incapable of being cured within such sixty (60) days period, within one hundred twenty (120) days, provided Borrowers are taking all appropriate actions to correct such determination); (c) designates any portion of such Mezzanine Property or the entirety of such Mezzanine Property as part of a "poor performing chain"; (d) cites deficiencies at the scope or severity of "G", "H" or higher with respect to such Mezzanine Property and for which no plan of correction is in place within ten (10) days of receipt of such deficiency statement; (e) cites deficiencies at the scope and severity of "G", "H" or higher with respect to such Mezzanine Property for which a plan of correction has been filed but not approved by such Governmental Authority, with such designation, determination or action continuing unremedied for a 89
period of sixty (60) days (or if incapable of being cured within such sixty (60) days period, within one hundred twenty (120) days, provided Borrowers are taking all appropriate actions to correct such determination) or (ten (10) days for immediate jeopardy deficiencies) following any Borrower's first receipt of notice of such designation, determination or action; or (f) takes adverse regulatory action with respect to such Mezzanine Property, including, without limitation, the imposing of civil money penalties, with such designation, determination or action continuing unremedied for a period of sixty (60) days (or if incapable of being cured within such sixty (60) days period, within one hundred twenty (120) days, provided Borrowers are taking all appropriate actions to correct such determination) or (ten (10) days for immediate jeopardy deficiencies) following any Borrower's receipt of notice of such designation, determination or action; (xxii) if any relevant Borrower shall default beyond any applicable grace period in the payment of any rent, additional rent or other charge payable under any Ground Lease; or any relevant Borrower shall default in the observance or performance of any other term, covenant or condition of such Ground Lease and such default is not cured prior to the expiration of any applicable grace period provided therein; or any event shall occur that would cause any Ground Lease to terminate or would entitle the ground lessor thereunder to terminate such Ground Lease and the term thereof by giving notice to any relevant Borrower; or the leasehold estate created by any Ground Lease shall be surrendered or such Ground Lease shall be terminated or cancelled for any reason or under any circumstance whatsoever; or any term of such Ground Lease shall be modified or supplemented without Lender's consent; or (xxiii) any "Event of Default" under the Mortgage Loan Documents. (b) Upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default described in clauses (vi), (vii) or (viii) above) and at any time thereafter Lender may, in addition to any other rights or remedies available to it pursuant to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or at law or in equity, take such action, without notice or demand, that Lender deems advisable to protect and enforce its rights against any Borrower and in and to any or all of the Properties, including, without limitation, declaring the Debt to be immediately due and payable, and Lender may enforce or avail itself of any or all rights or remedies provided in the Loan Documents and may exercise all the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code where any of the Collateral is located, against any Borrower and any or all of the Mezzanine Properties and Collateral, including, without limitation, all rights or remedies available at law or in equity; and upon any Event of Default described in clauses (vi), (vii) or (viii) above, the Debt and all other obligations of each Borrower hereunder and under the other Loan Documents shall immediately and automatically become due and payable, without notice or demand, and each Borrower hereby expressly waives any such notice or demand, anything contained herein or in any other Loan Document to the contrary notwithstanding. 90
Section 10.2. Remedies. (a) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, all or any one or more of the rights, powers, privileges and other remedies available to Lender against any Borrower under this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents executed and delivered by, or applicable to, any Borrower or at law or in equity may be exercised by Lender at any time and from time to time, whether or not all or any of the Debt shall be declared due and payable, and whether or not Lender shall have commenced any foreclosure proceeding or other action for the enforcement of its rights and remedies under any of the Loan Documents with respect to any or all of the Mezzanine Properties and Collateral. Any such actions taken by Lender shall be cumulative and concurrent and may be pursued independently, singly, successively, together or otherwise, at such time and in such order as Lender may determine in its sole discretion, to the fullest extent permitted by law, without impairing or otherwise affecting the other rights and remedies of Lender permitted by law, equity or contract or as set forth herein or in the other Loan Documents. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, if an Event of Default is continuing (i) Lender is not subject to any "one action" or "election of remedies" law or rule to the face extent allowed by applicable law, and (ii) all liens and other rights, remedies or privileges provided to Lender shall remain in full force and effect until Lender has exhausted all of its remedies against the Mezzanine Properties and Collateral and each Mortgage has been foreclosed, sold and/or otherwise realized upon in satisfaction of the Debt or the Debt has been paid in full. (b) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, Lender shall have the right from time to time to partially foreclose the Mortgages or the Pledge Agreement in any manner and for any amounts secured by the Mortgages and Pledge Agreement then due and payable as determined by Lender in its sole discretion including, without limitation, the following circumstances: (i) in the event any Borrower defaults beyond any applicable grace period in the payment of one or more scheduled payments of principal and interest, Lender may foreclose one or more of the Mortgages and Pledge Agreement to recover such delinquent payments, or (ii) in the event Lender elects to accelerate less than the entire outstanding principal balance of the Loan, Lender may foreclose one or more the Mortgages and Pledge Agreement to recover so much of the principal balance of the Loan as Lender may accelerate and such other sums secured by one or more of the Mortgages and Pledge Agreement as Lender may elect. Notwithstanding one or more partial foreclosures, the Mezzanine Properties and Collateral shall remain subject to the Mortgages and Pledge Agreement, respectively, to secure payment of sums secured by the Mortgages and not previously recovered. (c) Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, Lender shall have the right from time to time to sever the Note and the other Loan Documents into one or more separate notes, mortgages and other security documents (the "Severed Loan Documents") in such denominations as Lender shall determine in its sole discretion for purposes of evidencing and enforcing its rights and remedies provided hereunder. Each Borrower shall execute and deliver to Lender from time to time, promptly after the request of Lender, a severance agreement and such other documents as Lender shall request in order to 91
effect the severance described in the preceding sentence, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lender. Each Borrower hereby absolutely and irrevocably appoints Lender as its true and lawful attorney, coupled with an interest, in its name and stead to make and execute all documents necessary or desirable to effect the aforesaid severance, each Borrower ratifying all that its said attorney shall do by virtue thereof; provided, however, Lender shall not make or execute any such documents under such power until three (3) days after notice has been given to any Borrower by Lender of Lender's intent to exercise its rights under such power. Except as may be required in connection with a Securitization pursuant to Section 9.1 hereof, (i) each Borrower shall not be obligated to pay any costs or expenses incurred in connection with the preparation, execution, recording or filing of the Severed Loan Documents, and (ii) the Severed Loan Documents shall not contain any representations, warranties or covenants not contained in the Loan Documents and any such representations and warranties contained in the Severed Loan Documents will be given by each Borrower only as of the Closing Date. (d) Any amounts recovered from the Mezzanine Properties, the Collateral or any other collateral for the Loan after an Event of Default may be applied by Lender toward the payment of any interest and/or principal of the Loan and/or any other amounts due under the Loan Documents in such order, priority and proportions as Lender in its sole discretion shall determine. Section 10.3. Remedies Cumulative. The rights, powers and remedies of Lender under this Agreement shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any other right, power or remedy which Lender may have against any Borrower pursuant to this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or existing at law or in equity or otherwise. Lender's rights, powers and remedies may be pursued singly, concurrently or otherwise, at such time and in such order as Lender may determine in Lender's sole discretion. No delay or omission to exercise any remedy, right or power accruing upon an Event of Default shall impair any such remedy, right or power or shall be construed as a waiver thereof, but any such remedy, right or power may be exercised from time to time and as often as may be deemed expedient. A waiver of one Default or Event of Default with respect to any Borrower shall not be construed to be a waiver of any subsequent Default or Event of Default by any Borrower or to impair any remedy, right or power consequent thereon. ARTICLE XI. MISCELLANEOUS Section 11.1. Successors and Assigns. All covenants, promises and agreements in this Agreement, by or on behalf of any Borrower, shall inure to the benefit of the legal representatives, successors and assigns of Lender. 92
Section 11.2. Lender's Discretion. Whenever pursuant to this Agreement Lender exercises any right given to it to approve or disapprove, or any arrangement or term is to be satisfactory to Lender, the decision of Lender to approve or disapprove or to decide whether arrangements or terms are satisfactory or not satisfactory shall (except as is otherwise specifically herein provided) be in the sole discretion of Lender and shall be final and conclusive. Prior to a Securitization, whenever pursuant to this Agreement the Rating Agencies are given any right to approve or disapprove, or any arrangement or term is to be satisfactory to the Rating Agencies, the decision of Lender to approve or disapprove or to decide whether arrangements or terms are satisfactory or not satisfactory, based upon Lender's determination of Rating Agency criteria, shall be substituted therefore. Section 11.3. Governing Law. (a) THIS AGREEMENT WAS NEGOTIATED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND MADE BY LENDER AND ACCEPTED BY BORROWER IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE PROCEEDS OF THE NOTE DELIVERED PURSUANT HERETO WERE DISBURSED FROM THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WHICH STATE THE PARTIES AGREE HAS A SUBSTANTIAL RELATIONSHIP TO THE PARTIES AND TO THE UNDERLYING TRANSACTION EMBODIED HEREBY, AND IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, MATTERS OF CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE, THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE (WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT LAWS) AND ANY APPLICABLE LAW OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, EXCEPT THAT AT ALL TIMES THE PROVISIONS FOR THE CREATION, PERFECTION, AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE LIENS AND SECURITY INTERESTS CREATED PURSUANT HERETO AND PURSUANT TO THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED ACCORDING TO THE LAW OF THE STATE IN WHICH THE APPLICABLE PROPERTY IS LOCATED, IT BEING UNDERSTOOD THAT, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY THE LAW OF SUCH STATE, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THE CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND ENFORCEABILITY OF ALL LOAN DOCUMENTS AND ALL OF THE OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER OR THEREUNDER. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, BORROWER HEREBY UNCONDITIONALLY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY CLAIM TO ASSERT THAT THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION GOVERNS THIS AGREEMENT AND THE NOTE, AND THIS AGREEMENT AND THE NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW. 93
(b) ANY LEGAL SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST LENDER OR BORROWER ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT MAY AT LENDER'S OPTION BE INSTITUTED IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF NEW YORK, PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW AND BORROWER WAIVES ANY OBJECTIONS WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE BASED ON VENUE AND/OR FORUM NON CONVENIENS OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, AND BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY SUCH COURT IN ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING. BORROWER DOES HEREBY DESIGNATE AND APPOINT: CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 111 EIGHTH AVENUE NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10011 AS ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT TO ACCEPT AND ACKNOWLEDGE ON ITS BEHALF SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL PROCESS WHICH MAY BE SERVED IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK, AND AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SAID AGENT AT SAID ADDRESS AND WRITTEN NOTICE OF SAID SERVICE MAILED OR DELIVERED TO BORROWER IN THE MANNER PROVIDED HEREIN SHALL BE DEEMED IN EVERY RESPECT EFFECTIVE SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON BORROWER, IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. BORROWER (I) SHALL GIVE PROMPT NOTICE TO LENDER OF ANY CHANGED ADDRESS OF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT HEREUNDER, (II) MAY AT ANY TIME AND FROM TIME TO TIME DESIGNATE A SUBSTITUTE AUTHORIZED AGENT WITH AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK (WHICH SUBSTITUTE AGENT AND OFFICE SHALL BE DESIGNATED AS THE PERSON AND ADDRESS FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS), AND (III) SHALL PROMPTLY DESIGNATE SUCH A SUBSTITUTE IF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT CEASES TO HAVE AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK OR IS DISSOLVED WITHOUT LEAVING A SUCCESSOR. Section 11.4. Modification, Waiver in Writing. No modification, amendment, extension, discharge, termination or waiver of any provision of this Agreement or of any other Loan Document, nor consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in a writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance, and for the purpose, for which given. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, no notice to, or demand on any Borrower, shall entitle any Borrower to any other or future notice or demand in the same, similar or other circumstances. 94
Section 11.5. Delay Not a Waiver. Neither any failure nor any delay on the part of Lender in insisting upon strict performance of any term, condition, covenant or agreement, or exercising any right, power, remedy or privilege hereunder, or under any other Loan Document, shall operate as or constitute a waiver thereof, nor shall a single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other future exercise, or the exercise of any other right, power, remedy or privilege. In particular, and not by way of limitation, by accepting payment after the due date of any amount payable under this Agreement or any other Loan Document, Lender shall not be deemed to have waived any right either to require prompt payment when due of all other amounts due under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or to declare a default for failure to effect prompt payment of any such other amount. Section 11.6. Notices. All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals or other communications (any of the foregoing, a "Notice") required, permitted, or desired to be given hereunder shall be in writing sent by telefax (with answer back acknowledged) or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or delivered by hand or reputable overnight courier addressed to the party to be so notified at its address hereinafter set forth, or to such other address as such party may hereafter specify in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11.6. Notice to any Borrower shall be deemed notice as to all Borrowers and the Lender shall not be required to deliver any Notice to all Borrowers as long as such Notice is delivered to any one Borrower. Any Notice shall be deemed to have been received: (a) three (3) days after the date such Notice is mailed, (b) on the date of sending by telefax if sent during business hours on a Business Day (otherwise on the next Business Day), (c) on the date of delivery by hand if delivered during business hours on a Business Day (otherwise on the next Business Day), and (d) on the next Business Day if sent by an overnight commercial courier, in each case addressed to the parties as follows: If to Lender: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership c/o Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attention: Chief Financial Officer Facsimile No. (502)-357-9001 with a copy to: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership c/o Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile No. (502)-357-9001 95
with a copy to: Dechert 4000 Bell Atlantic Tower 1717 Arch Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 Attention: David W. Forti Facsimile No. (215) 994-2222 If to a Borrower: c/o Trans Healthcare, Inc. 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103 Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 Attention: Anthony Misitano Facsimile No. (717) 730-8722 with a copy to: Latsha Davis & Yohe, P.C. 4720 Old Gettysburg Road, Suite 101 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17108 Attention: Douglas C. Yohe Facsimile No. (717) 761-2286 Section 11.7. Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury. BORROWER AND LENDER EACH HEREBY AGREE NOT TO ELECT A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY ISSUE TRIABLE OF RIGHT BY JURY, AND WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY FULLY TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SUCH RIGHT SHALL NOW OR HEREAFTER EXIST WITH REGARD TO THE LOAN DOCUMENTS, OR ANY CLAIM, COUNTERCLAIM OR OTHER ACTION ARISING IN CONNECTION THEREWITH. THIS WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IS GIVEN KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY BY BORROWER AND LENDER, AND IS INTENDED TO ENCOMPASS INDIVIDUALLY EACH INSTANCE AND EACH ISSUE AS TO WHICH THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY WOULD OTHERWISE ACCRUE. BORROWER AND LENDER ARE EACH HEREBY AUTHORIZED TO FILE A COPY OF THIS PARAGRAPH IN ANY PROCEEDING AS CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE OF THIS WAIVER. Section 11.8. Headings. The Article and/or Section headings and the Table of Contents in this Agreement are included herein for convenience of reference only and are not to be construed as defining or limiting the scope or intent of the provisions hereof. Section 11.9. Severability. Wherever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective to the 96
extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement. Section 11.10. Preferences. Lender shall have the continuing and exclusive right to apply or reverse and reapply any and all payments by any Borrower to any portion of the obligations of any Borrower hereunder. To the extent any Borrower makes a payment or payments to Lender, which payment or proceeds or any part thereof are subsequently invalidated, declared to be fraudulent or preferential, set aside or required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or any other party under any bankruptcy law, state or federal law, common law or equitable cause, then, to the extent of such payment or proceeds received, the obligations hereunder or part thereof intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continue in full force and effect, as if such payment or proceeds had not been received by Lender. Section 11.11. Waiver of Notice. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower shall not be entitled to any notices of any nature whatsoever from Lender except with respect to matters for which this Agreement or the other Loan Documents specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Lender to a Borrower and except with respect to matters for which any Borrower is not, pursuant to applicable Legal Requirements, permitted to waive the giving of notice to the full extent permitted by applicable law. Each Borrower hereby expressly waives the right to receive any notice from Lender with respect to any matter for which this Agreement or the other Loan Documents do not specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Lender to a Borrower. Section 11.12. Remedies of Borrower. In the event that a claim or adjudication is made that Lender or its agents have acted unreasonably or unreasonably delayed acting in any case where, by law or under this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, Lender or such agent, as the case may be, has an obligation to act reasonably or promptly, neither Lender nor its agents shall be liable for any monetary damages, and a Borrower's sole remedy shall be limited to commencing an action seeking injunctive relief or declaratory judgment. Any action or proceeding to determine whether Lender has acted reasonably shall be determined by an action seeking declaratory judgment. Any expedited procedure legally available with such a declaratory judgment action or action for injunctive relief may be utilized to the extent possible. Section 11.13. Expenses; Indemnity. (a) Each Borrower shall pay or, if any Borrower fails to pay, reimburse Lender upon receipt of notice from Lender, for all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by Lender in connection with (i) any Borrower's ongoing performance of and compliance with any Borrower's agreements and 97
covenants contained in this Agreement, the Cooperation Agreement and the other Loan Documents on its part to be performed or complied with after the Closing Date, including, without limitation, confirming compliance with environmental and insurance requirements; (ii) Lender's ongoing performance of and compliance with all agreements and covenants contained in this Agreement and the other Loan Documents on its part to be performed or complied with after the Closing Date; (iii) the negotiation, preparation, execution, delivery and administration of any consents, amendments, waivers or other modifications to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents and any other documents or matters requested by any Borrower; (iv) the filing and recording fees and expenses, title insurance and reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for providing to Lender all required legal opinions, and other similar expenses incurred, in creating and perfecting the Liens in favor of Lender pursuant to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents; (v) enforcing or preserving any rights, in response to third party claims or the prosecuting or defending of any action or proceeding or other litigation, in each case against, under or affecting any Borrower, this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, the Mezzanine Properties, the Collateral or any other security given for the Loan; (vi) the Re-sizing and (vii) enforcing any obligations of or collecting any payments due from any Borrower under this Agreement, the other Loan Documents or with respect to the Mezzanine Properties or in connection with any refinancing or restructuring of the credit arrangements provided under this Agreement in the nature of a "work-out" or of any insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings; provided, however, that each Borrower shall not be liable for the payment of any such costs and expenses to the extent the same arise by reason of the gross negligence, illegal acts, fraud or willful misconduct of Lender. Any costs due and payable to Lender may be paid to Lender pursuant to the Mezzanine Cash Management Agreement. (b) Each Borrower shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Lender and its officers, directors, agents and employees (and the successors and assigns of the foregoing (the "Lender Indemnitees")) from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, claims, costs, expenses and disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for Lender Indemnitees in connection with any investigative, administrative or judicial proceeding commenced or threatened, whether or not Lender Indemnitees shall be designated a party thereto), that may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against Lender Indemnitees in any manner relating to or arising out of (i) any breach by any Borrower of its obligations under, or any material misrepresentation by any Borrower contained in, this Agreement or the other Loan Documents, or (ii) the use or intended use of the proceeds of the Loan (collectively, the "Indemnified Liabilities"); provided, however, that each Borrower shall not have any obligation to Lender Indemnitees hereunder to the extent that such Indemnified Liabilities arise from the gross negligence, illegal acts, fraud or willful misconduct of Lender Indemnitees. To the extent that the undertaking to indemnify, defend and hold harmless set forth in the preceding sentence may be unenforceable because it violates any law or public policy, Borrowers shall pay the maximum portion that it is permitted to pay and satisfy under applicable law to the payment and satisfaction of all Indemnified Liabilities incurred by Lender Indemnitees. 98
Section 11.14. Schedules Incorporated. The Schedules annexed hereto are hereby incorporated herein as a part of this Agreement with the same effect as if set forth in the body hereof. Section 11.15. Offsets, Counterclaims and Defenses. Any assignee of Lender's interest in and to this Agreement and the other Loan Documents shall take the same free and clear of all offsets, counterclaims or defenses which are unrelated to such documents which any Borrower may otherwise have against any assignor of such documents, and no such unrelated counterclaim or defense shall be interposed or asserted by any Borrower in any action or proceeding brought by any such assignee upon such documents and any such right to interpose or assert any such unrelated offset, counterclaim or defense in any such action or proceeding is hereby expressly waived by each Borrower. Section 11.16. No Joint Venture or Partnership; No Third Party Beneficiaries. (a) Each Borrower and Lender intend that the relationships created hereunder and under the other Loan Documents be solely that of borrower and lender. Nothing herein or therein is intended to create a joint venture, partnership, tenancy-in-common, or joint tenancy relationship between any Borrower and Lender nor to grant Lender any interest in the Properties other than that of mortgagee, beneficiary or lender. (b) This Agreement and the other Loan Documents are solely for the benefit of Lender and nothing contained in this Agreement or the other Loan Documents shall be deemed to confer upon anyone other than Lender any right to insist upon or to enforce the performance or observance of any of the obligations contained herein or therein. All conditions to the obligations of Lender to make the Loan hereunder are imposed solely and exclusively for the benefit of Lender and no other Person shall have standing to require satisfaction of such conditions in accordance with their terms or be entitled to assume that Lender will refuse to make the Loan in the absence of strict compliance with any or all thereof and no other Person shall under any circumstances be deemed to be a beneficiary of such conditions, any or all of which may be freely waived in whole or in part by Lender if, in Lender's sole discretion, Lender deems it advisable or desirable to do so. Section 11.17. Publicity. All news releases, publicity or advertising by any Borrower or its Affiliates through any media intended to reach the general public which refers to the Loan Documents or the financing evidenced by the Loan Documents, to Lender or any of its Affiliates shall be subject to the prior approval of Lender. 99
Section 11.18. Waiver of Marshalling of Assets. To the fullest extent permitted by law, each Borrower, for itself and its successors and assigns, waives all rights to a marshalling of the assets of any Borrower, any Borrower's partners and others with interests in any Borrower, and of the Mezzanine Properties and Collateral, and shall not assert any right under any laws pertaining to the marshalling of assets, the sale in inverse order of alienation, homestead exemption, the administration of estates of decedents, or any other matters whatsoever to defeat, reduce or affect the right of Lender under the Loan Documents to a sale of the Mezzanine Properties and Collateral for the collection of the Debt without any prior or different resort for collection or of the right of Lender to the payment of the Debt out of the net proceeds of the Mezzanine Properties and Collateral in preference to every other claimant whatsoever. Section 11.19. Waiver of Offsets/Defenses/Counterclaims. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Borrower hereby waives the right to assert a counterclaim, other than a mandatory or compulsory counterclaim, in any action or proceeding brought against it by Lender or its agents or otherwise to offset any obligations to make the payments required by the Loan Documents. No failure by Lender to perform any of its obligations hereunder shall be a valid defense to, or result in any offset against, any payments which any Borrower is obligated to make under any of the Loan Documents. Section 11.20. Conflict; Construction of Documents; Reliance. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and any of the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Agreement shall control. The parties hereto acknowledge that they were represented by competent counsel in connection with the negotiation, drafting and execution of the Loan Documents and that such Loan Documents shall not be subject to the principle of construing their meaning against the party which drafted same. Each Borrower acknowledges that, with respect to the Loan, each Borrower shall rely solely on its own judgment and advisors in entering into the Loan without relying in any manner on any statements, representations or recommendations of Lender or any parent, subsidiary or Affiliate of Lender. Lender shall not be subject to any limitation whatsoever in the exercise of any rights or remedies available to it under any of the Loan Documents or any other agreements or instruments which govern the Loan by virtue of the ownership by it or any parent, subsidiary or Affiliate of Lender of any equity interest any of them may acquire in any Borrower, and each Borrower hereby irrevocably waives the right to raise any defense or take any action on the basis of the foregoing with respect to Lender's exercise of any such rights or remedies. Each Borrower acknowledges that Lender engages in the business of real estate financings and other real estate transactions and investments which may be viewed as adverse to or competitive with the business of any Borrower or its Affiliates. 100
Section 11.21. Brokers and Financial Advisors. Each Borrower hereby represents that it has dealt with no financial advisors, brokers, underwriters, placement agents, agents or finders in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Each Borrower shall indemnify, defend and hold Lender Indemnitees harmless from and against any and all claims, liabilities, costs and expenses of any kind (including attorneys' fees and expenses) in any way relating to or arising from a claim by any Person that such Person acted on behalf of any Borrower or Lender Indemnitees in connection with the transactions contemplated herein. The provisions of this Section 11.21 shall survive the expiration and termination of this Agreement and the payment of the Debt. Section 11.22. Intentionally Deleted. Section 11.23. Prior Agreements. This Agreement and the other Loan Documents contain the entire agreement of the parties hereto and thereto in respect of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby, and all prior agreements among or between such parties, whether oral or written, including, without limitation, the loan commitment dated October 2, 2002, and all attachments thereto including, but not limited to, the term sheet between Borrowers and Lender, are superseded by the terms of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents. Section 11.24. Servicer. At the option of Lender, the Loan may be serviced by a servicer including, but not limited to any sub-servicers or master servicer (the "Servicer") selected by Lender and Lender may delegate all or any portion of its responsibilities under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents to the Servicer pursuant to a servicing agreement (the "Servicing Agreement") between Lender and Servicer. Borrowers shall be responsible for any reasonable set-up fees or any other initial costs relating to or arising under the Servicing Agreement; provided, however, that Borrowers shall not be responsible for payment of the monthly servicing fee due to the Servicer under the Servicing Agreement. Section 11.25. Duplicate Originals; Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of duplicate originals and each such duplicate original shall be deemed to be an original. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which counterparts shall be deemed an original instrument and all of which together shall constitute a single Agreement. The failure of any party hereto to execute this Agreement, or any counterpart hereof, shall not relieve the other signatories from their obligations hereunder. 101
Section 11.26. Cross Collateralization. Without limitation to any other right or remedy provided to Lender in this Agreement or any of the other Loan Documents, each Borrower acknowledges and agrees that to the full extent permitted under applicable law, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default (i) Lender shall have the right to pursue all of its rights and remedies in one proceeding, or separately and independently in separate proceedings which it, as Lender, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine from time to time, (ii) Lender is not required to either marshall assets, sell any of the collateral for the Loan in any inverse order of alienation, or be subjected to any "one action" or "election of remedies" law or rule, (iii) the exercise by Lender of any remedies against any of the collateral for the Loan will not impede Lender from subsequently or simultaneously exercising remedies against other collateral for the Loan, (iv) all Liens and other rights, remedies and privileges provided to Lender in this Agreement and in the other Loan Documents or otherwise shall remain in full force and effect until Lender has exhausted all of its remedies against the collateral for the Loan and all of the collateral for the Loan has been foreclosed, sold and/or otherwise realized upon and (v) all of the Mezzanine Properties and Collateral shall be security for the performance of all of each Borrower's obligations hereunder. Section 11.27. Joint and Several Liability. If more than one Person has executed this Agreement as "Borrower," the representations, covenants, warranties and obligations of all such Persons hereunder shall be joint and several. [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE] 102
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Loan Agreement to be duly executed by their duly authorized representatives, all as of the day and year first above written. LENDER: VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership By: Ventas, Inc. a Delaware corporation, its sole general partner By: /s/ T. RICHARD RINEY ------------------------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President/General Counsel [Signatures continue on following page] 103
BORROWER: THI OF OHIO SNFS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ---------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO ALFS I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ---------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT BEREA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ---------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT CORTLAND, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ---------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT KENT, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ---------------------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President 104
THI OF MARYLAND SNFS I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ---------------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND SNFS II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ---------------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT FRANKLIN SQUARE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ---------------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT FORT WASHINGTON, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ---------------------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President 105

EXHIBIT 10.3.2 PROMISSORY NOTE $22,000,000 New York, New York November 1, 2002 FOR VALUE RECEIVED THOSE ENTITIES LISTED ON SCHEDULE I attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company and each having its principal place of business at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 (each, a "Mezzanine Borrower" and collectively, the "Mezzanine Borrowers"), hereby jointly and severally promise to pay to the order of VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, having an address at 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207 (together with any subsequent holder of this Note, and their respective successors and assigns, "Mezzanine Lender"), or at such other place as the holder hereof may from time to time designate in writing, the principal sum of TWENTY TWO MILLION AND NO/100 DOLLARS ($22,000,000), or so much thereof as is advanced, in lawful money of the United States of America, with interest thereon to be computed from the date of this Note at the Interest Rate, and to be paid in accordance with the terms of this Note and that certain Mezzanine Loan Agreement dated the date hereof between the Mezzanine Borrowers and Mezzanine Lender (as the same may be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Mezzanine Loan Agreement"). All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement. ARTICLE 1 - PAYMENT TERMS Each Mezzanine Borrower agrees to pay the principal sum of this Note and interest on the unpaid principal sum of this Note from time to time outstanding at the rates and at the times specified in Article II of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement and the outstanding balance of the principal sum of this Note and all accrued and unpaid interest thereon shall be due and payable on the Maturity Date. ARTICLE 2 - DEFAULT AND ACCELERATION The Debt shall without notice become immediately due and payable at the option of Mezzanine Lender if any payment required under this Note is not paid on or prior to the date when due or if not paid on the Maturity Date or on the happening of any other Event of Default. ARTICLE 3 - LOAN DOCUMENTS This Note is secured by the Pledge Agreement, the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents. All of the terms, covenants and conditions contained in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the Mortgages and the other Loan Documents are hereby made part of this Note to the same extent and with the same force as if they were fully set forth herein. In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the terms of this Note and the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the terms and provisions of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement shall govern.
ARTICLE 4 - SAVINGS CLAUSE Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, (a) all agreements and communications between any Mezzanine Borrower and Mezzanine Lender are hereby and shall automatically be limited so that, after taking into account all amounts deemed interest, the interest contracted for, charged or received by Mezzanine Lender shall never exceed the maximum lawful rate or amount, (b) in calculating whether any interest exceeds the lawful maximum, all such interest shall be amortized, prorated, allocated and spread over the full amount and term of all principal indebtedness of the Mezzanine Borrowers to Mezzanine Lender, and (c) if through any contingency or event, Mezzanine Lender receives or is deemed to receive interest in excess of the lawful maximum, any such excess shall be deemed to have been applied toward payment of the principal of any and all then outstanding indebtedness of the Mezzanine Borrowers to Mezzanine Lender, or if there is no such indebtedness, shall immediately be returned to the Mezzanine Borrowers. ARTICLE 5 - NO ORAL CHANGE No modification, amendment, extension, discharge, termination or waiver of any provision of this Note, nor consent to any departure by any Mezzanine Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in a writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance, and for the purpose, for which given. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, no notice to, or demand on any Mezzanine Borrower shall entitle such Mezzanine Borrower to any other or future notice of demand in the same, similar or other circumstances. ARTICLE 6 - WAIVERS Each Mezzanine Borrower and all others who may become liable for the payment of all or any part of the Debt do hereby severally waive presentment and demand for payment, notice of dishonor, notice of intention to accelerate, notice of acceleration, protest and notice of protest and non-payment and all other notices of any kind. No release of any security for the Debt or extension of time for payment of this Note or any installment hereof, and no alteration, amendment or waiver of any provision of this Note, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents made by agreement between Mezzanine Lender or any other Person shall release, modify, amend, waive, extend, change, discharge, terminate or affect the liability of any Mezzanine Borrower or any other Person who may become liable for the payment of all or any part of the Debt under this Note, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents. No notice to or demand on any Mezzanine Borrower shall be deemed to be a waiver of the obligation of such Mezzanine Borrower or of the right of Mezzanine Lender to take further action without further notice or demand as provided for in this Note, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement or the other Loan Documents. If any Mezzanine Borrower is a partnership or limited liability company, the agreements herein contained shall remain in force and be applicable, notwithstanding any changes in the individuals comprising the partnership or limited liability company, and the term "Mezzanine Borrower," as used herein, shall include any alternate or successor partnership or limited liability company, but any predecessor partnership or limited liability company and their partners or members shall not thereby be released from any liability. If any Mezzanine Borrower is a corporation, the agreements contained herein shall remain in full 2
force and be applicable notwithstanding any changes in the shareholders comprising, or the officers and directors relating to, the corporation, and the term "Mezzanine Borrower," as used herein, shall include any alternative or successor corporation, but any predecessor corporation shall not be relieved of liability hereunder. Nothing in the foregoing sentence shall be construed as a consent to, or a waiver of, any prohibition or restriction on transfers of interests in such partnership, limited liability company or corporation, which may be set forth in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the Mortgages, the Pledge Agreement or any other Loan Document. ARTICLE 7 - TRANSFER Upon the transfer of this Note in accordance with the provisions of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, each Mezzanine Borrower hereby waiving notice of any such transfer, Mezzanine Lender may deliver all the collateral mortgaged, granted, pledged or assigned pursuant to the Loan Documents, or any part thereof, to the transferee who shall thereupon become vested with all the rights herein or under applicable law given to Mezzanine Lender with respect thereto, and Mezzanine Lender shall thereafter forever be relieved and fully discharged from any liability or responsibility in the matter; but Mezzanine Lender shall retain all rights hereby given to it with respect to any liabilities and the collateral not so transferred. ARTICLE 8 Intentionally deleted. ARTICLE 9 - GOVERNING LAW (A) THIS NOTE WAS NEGOTIATED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND MADE BY EACH MEZZANINE BORROWER AND ACCEPTED BY MEZZANINE LENDER IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE PROCEEDS OF THIS NOTE WERE DISBURSED FROM THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WHICH STATE THE PARTIES AGREE HAS A SUBSTANTIAL RELATIONSHIP TO THE PARTIES AND TO THE UNDERLYING TRANSACTION EMBODIED HEREBY, AND IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, MATTERS OF CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE, THIS NOTE AND THE OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE (WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT LAWS) AND ANY APPLICABLE LAW OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH MEZZANINE BORROWER HEREBY UNCONDITIONALLY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY CLAIM TO ASSERT THAT THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION GOVERNS THIS NOTE AND THIS NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW. 3
(B) ANY LEGAL SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST MEZZANINE LENDER OR ANY MEZZANINE BORROWER ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS NOTE MAY AT MEZZANINE LENDER'S OPTION BE INSTITUTED IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF NEW YORK, PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW, AND EACH MEZZANINE BORROWER WAIVES ANY OBJECTIONS WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE BASED ON VENUE AND/OR FORUM NON CONVENIENCE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, AND EACH MEZZANINE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY SUCH COURT IN ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING. EACH MEZZANINE BORROWER DOES HEREBY DESIGNATE AND APPOINT: CT CORPORATION SYSTEM 111 EIGHTH AVENUE NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10011 AS ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT TO ACCEPT AND ACKNOWLEDGE ON ITS BEHALF SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL PROCESS WHICH MAY BE SERVED IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK, AND AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SAID AGENT AT SAID ADDRESS AND WRITTEN NOTICE OF SAID SERVICE MAILED OR DELIVERED TO MEZZANINE BORROWER IN THE MANNER PROVIDED HEREIN SHALL BE DEEMED IN EVERY RESPECT EFFECTIVE SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON MEZZANINE BORROWER IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH MEZZANINE BORROWER (I) SHALL GIVE PROMPT NOTICE TO MEZZANINE LENDER OF ANY CHANGE IN ADDRESS OF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT HEREUNDER, (II) MAY AT ANY TIME AND FROM TIME TO TIME DESIGNATE A SUBSTITUTE AUTHORIZED AGENT WITH AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK (WHICH SUBSTITUTE AGENT AND OFFICE SHALL BE DESIGNATED AS THE PERSON AND ADDRESS FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS), AND (III) SHALL PROMPTLY DESIGNATE SUCH A SUBSTITUTE IF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT CEASES TO HAVE AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK OR IS DISSOLVED WITHOUT LEAVING A SUCCESSOR. ARTICLE 10 - NOTICES All notices or other written communications hereunder shall be delivered in accordance with Section 11.6 of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement. [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE] 4
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Mezzanine Borrower has duly executed this Note as of the day and year first above written. MEZZANINE BORROWER: THI OF OHIO SNFS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO ALFS I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT BEREA, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF OHIO AT CORTLAND, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President
THI OF OHIO AT KENT, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ------------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND SNFS I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND SNFS II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT FRANKLIN SQUARE, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND AT FORT WASHINGTON, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President
SCHEDULE I (MEZZANINE BORROWERS) "Mezzanine Borrowers" 1. THI of Ohio SNFs, LLC 2. THI of Ohio ALFs I, LLC 3. THI of Ohio at Kent, LLC 4. THI of Ohio at Cortland, LLC 5. THI of Ohio at Berea, LLC 6. THI of Maryland SNFs I, LLC 7. THI of Maryland SNFs II, LLC 8. THI of Maryland at Franklin Square, LLC 9. THI of Maryland at Fort Washington, LLC

EXHIBIT 10.3.3 GUARANTY THIS GUARANTY (as amended, modified and in effect from time to time, this "Guaranty") is executed as of November 1, 2002 by TRANS HEALTHCARE, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Parent"), and the subsidiaries of Parent listed on Schedule A hereto (along with Parent, each a "Guarantor" and collectively, the "Guarantors"), for the benefit of ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (together with its successors and assigns, the "Lender"). BACKGROUND WHEREAS, Lender has agreed to provide a loan consisting of a senior first mortgage loan (the "Mortgage Loan") and a mezzanine loan (the "Mezzanine Loan") to certain subsidiaries of Parent (the "Trans Entities") in respect of certain healthcare facilities; WHEREAS, pursuant to that certain Promissory Note, dated of even date herewith, executed by the entities listed on Schedule B attached hereto (individually, a "Mortgage Borrower," and collectively the "Mortgage Borrowers"), and payable to the order of Lender (together with all renewals, modifications, increases and extensions thereof, the "Mortgage Note"), the Mortgage Borrowers have become indebted to Lender with respect to the Mortgage Loan which is made pursuant to that certain Loan Agreement, dated of even date herewith, between the Mortgage Borrowers and Lender (as amended, modified and in effect from time to time, the "Mortgage Loan Agreement"); WHEREAS, pursuant to that the certain Promissory Note, dated of even date herewith, executed by the entities listed on Schedule C hereto (individually, a "Mezzanine Borrower," and collectively the "Mezzanine Borrowers") and payable to the order of the Lender (together with all renewals, modifications, increases and extensions thereof, the "Mezzanine Note"), the Mezzanine Borrower has become indebted to Lender with respect to the Mezzanine Loan which is made pursuant to that certain Loan Agreement, dated of even date herewith, between the Mezzanine Borrower and Lender (as amended, modified and in effect from time to time, the "Mezzanine Loan Agreement"); WHEREAS, Lender has agreed to purchase certain healthcare facilities from the entities listed on Schedule D attached hereto and subsequently lease certain of such healthcare facilities to the entities listed on Schedule D-1 attached hereto and made a part hereof (collectively, the "Trans Lessees") (such transaction, the "Sale/Leaseback Transaction"); WHEREAS, each of the Mortgage Borrowers, the Mezzanine Borrowers and the Trans Lessees are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Parent, each Guarantor is an affiliate of Parent, the Mortgage Borrowers and the Mezzanine Borrowers and each Guarantor will directly benefit from Lender's making the Mortgage Loan to the Mortgage Borrowers, the Mezzanine Loan to the Mezzanine Borrower and from the Sale/Leaseback Transaction;
WHEREAS, Lender is not willing to make the Mortgage Loan or the Mezzanine Loan, or otherwise extend credit, to the Mortgage Borrowers or the Mezzanine Borrower or to enter into the Sale/Leaseback Transaction with the Trans Lessees unless each Guarantor unconditionally guarantees payment and performance to Lender of the Guaranteed Obligations (as herein defined); WHEREAS, certain of the Guarantors have executed and delivered a Pledge and Security Agreement dated as of the date hereof, as pledgor, to Lender (as amended, modified and in effect from time to time, the "Pledge Agreement"), establishing a first priority lien on the Pledged Equity (as defined in the Pledge Agreement) to secure the Guarantor's obligations hereunder; and WHEREAS, each Guarantor has reviewed the Mortgage Loan Documents, the Mezzanine Loan Documents and the Lease Documents (each as defined herein), and each Guarantor has determined that it is in its interest and to its financial benefit that the respective parties to such documents enter into the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby. NOW, THEREFORE, as an inducement to Lender to (i) make the Mortgage Loan to the Mortgage Borrowers and to extend such additional credit as Lender may from time to time agree to extend under the Mortgage Loan Documents, (ii) make the Mezzanine Loan to Mezzanine Borrower and to extend such additional credit as Lender may from time to time agree to extend under the Mezzanine Loan Documents and (iii) enter into the Sale/Leaseback Transaction with the Trans Entities, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and legal sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties do hereby agree as follows: ARTICLE I - DEFINITIONS In addition to the terms defined in the Recitals, as used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings (all terms defined in this Article 1 or in other provisions of this Guaranty in the singular have the same meaning when used in the plural and vice versa): "Acquired Properties" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of this Guaranty. "Acquisition" by any Person, shall mean the purchase or acquisition by such Person of any Capital Stock in another Person or any asset of another Person, whether or not involving a merger or consolidation with such other Person. "Addition Event" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.14 of this Guaranty. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person controlling, controlled by or under common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this Agreement, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership 2
of voting securities or other beneficial interests, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controls," "controlling" and "controlled" have the meanings correlative to the foregoing. "Affiliated Group" shall mean a group of Persons, each of which is an Affiliate of some other Person in the group. "Applicable Laws" shall mean all applicable provisions of constitutions, statutes, laws, rules, treaties, regulations and orders of all Governmental Authorities and all applicable orders, rules and decrees of courts and arbitrators. "Asset Disposition" by any Person shall mean and include (i) the sale, lease or other disposition of any property by such Person (including the Capital Stock of a Subsidiary of such Person), but for purposes hereof shall not include, in any event, (A) the sale of inventory in the ordinary course of business, (B) the sale, lease or other disposition of machinery and equipment no longer used or useful in the conduct of business and (C) a sale, lease, transfer or disposition of property to another Loan Party, and (ii) receipt by such Person of any cash insurance proceeds or condemnation award payable by reason of theft, loss, physical destruction or damage, taking or similar event with respect to any of its property. "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of Parent. "Capital Expenditures" shall mean, with respect to each Property, actual disbursements incurred by any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any Guarantor with respect to replacements and capital repairs made to any Property (including repairs to, and replacements of, structural components, roofs, building systems, parking garages and parking lots), in each case to the extent capitalized in accordance with GAAP. "Capital Lease," as applied to any Person, shall mean any lease of any property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which, in accordance with GAAP and in the reasonable judgment of such Person, is required to be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person. "Capital Stock" shall mean, with respect to any entity, any capital stock (including preferred stock), shares, interests, participation or other ownership interests (however designated) of such entity and any rights (other than debt securities convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock), warrants or options to purchase any thereof; provided, however, that leases of real property that provide for contingent rent based on the financial performance of the tenant shall not be deemed to be Capital Stock. "Cash Interest Expense" shall mean, for any period, for Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis without duplication in accordance with GAAP, all interest payable in cash in respect of Debt during such period (whether or not actually paid during such period) and all payments due under Interest Rate Protection Agreements by Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis (net of payments to such parties by any counter party thereunder). 3
"Change of Control" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following events: (a) prior to the first public offering of common stock of Parent after the date hereof, the Permitted Holders cease to be the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of a majority in the aggregate of the total voting power of the Parent, whether as a result of issuance of securities of Parent, any merger, consolidation, liquidation or dissolution of Parent, any direct or indirect transfer of securities by the Permitted Holders or otherwise (for purposes of this clause (a) and clause (b) below, the Permitted Holders shall be deemed to beneficially own any voting stock of any Person (the "specified entity") held by any other Person (the "parent entity") so long as the Permitted Holders beneficially own (as so defined), directly or indirectly, in the aggregate a majority of the voting power of the voting stock of the parent entity); (b) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act), other than one or more Permitted Holders, is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in clause (a) above, except that for purposes of this clause (b) such person shall be deemed to have "beneficial ownership" of all shares that any such person has the right to acquire, whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time), directly or indirectly, of more than 35% of the total voting power of Parent; provided, however, that the Permitted Holders beneficially own (as defined in clause (a) above), directly or indirectly, in the aggregate a lesser percentage of the total voting power of Parent than such other person and do not have the right or ability by voting power, contract or otherwise to elect or designate for election a majority of the Board of Directors (for the purposes of this clause (b), such other person shall be deemed to beneficially own any voting stock of a specified entity held by a parent entity, if such other person is the beneficial owner (as defined in this clause (b)), directly or indirectly, of more than 35% of the voting power of such parent entity and the Permitted Holders beneficially own (as defined in clause (a) above), directly or indirectly, in the aggregate a lesser percentage of the voting power of the voting stock of such parent entity and do not have the right or ability by voting power, contract or otherwise to elect or designate for election a majority of the board of directors of such parent entity); (c) individuals who on the date hereof constituted the Board of Directors (together with any new directors whose election by such Board of Directors or whose nomination for election by the stockholders of Parent was approved by a vote of a majority of the directors of Parent then still in office who were either directors on the date hereof or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved) cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the Board of Directors then in office; (d) the adoption of a plan relating to the liquidation or dissolution of Parent; or (e) Parent shall cease to be the sole direct or indirect owner of any Loan Party other than as specifically permitted under Section 7.4 hereof. "Closing Date" shall mean the date on which the Mortgage Loan, Mezzanine Loan and Sale/Lease Transaction are funded. 4
"CMS" has the meaning set forth in the definition of the term "Governmental Authority." "Consolidated Adjusted Leverage Ratio" shall mean, at any date, for Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis, the ratio of the sum of (i) Debt (excluding reimbursement obligations in connection with any undrawn letters of credit to the extent included in Debt) and (ii) rent expense times eight (8) to Consolidated EBITDAR at such date for the Trailing Four-Quarter Period ending on such date. "Consolidated EBITDAR" shall mean, for any period, for Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis, Consolidated Net Income for such period, plus without duplication, to the extent deducted in determining Consolidated Net Income, the sum for such period of (i) amortization and depreciation expense, (ii) provision for income taxes (including provision for deferred taxes not payable currently), (iii) Consolidated Interest Expense, (iv) rent expense, and (v) non-cash charges as are reasonably acceptable to the Lender, but, excluding, for purposes hereof to the extent included in determining Consolidated Net Income for such period (A) extraordinary gains and losses and related tax effects thereon, (B) other non-cash gains and losses thereon as are reasonably acceptable to the Lender, and (C) the amount of interest income, all as determined for such period in conformity with GAAP. "Consolidated Interest Expense" shall mean, for any period, all interest expense for Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries during such period determined on a consolidated basis for such period taken as a single accounting period in accordance with GAAP, including amortization of debt discount and premium, the interest component under Capital Leases (and also including, to the extent required under GAAP, the implied interest component under a Securitization) and all payments due under Interest Rate Protection Agreements by Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis (net of payments to such parties by any counter party thereunder), but excluding the amortization of any deferred financing fees. The applicable period of determination shall be the Trailing Four Quarter Period. "Consolidated Net Income" shall mean, for any period, the net income or loss of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries during such period determined on a consolidated basis for such period taken as a single accounting period in accordance with GAAP; provided that there shall be excluded from such determination of net income or loss (i) adjustments for straight-line rent accounting, (ii) the income or loss of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries except to the extent of the amount of dividends or other distributions actually received by Parent or any Loan Party in cash on a non-contingent basis, without any obligation to return such dividend or distribution by Parent or any Loan Party, (iii) the income or loss of any Person (other than the Consolidated Subsidiaries) in which Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries has an equity investment or comparable interest, except to the extent of the amount of dividends or other distributions actually received by Parent or any Loan Party in cash on a non-contingent basis, without any obligation to return such dividend or distribution by the Parent or any Loan Party (net of any payments by Parent to a Non-Guarantor Subsidiary pursuant to Section 7.3 hereof), (iv) income or loss of a Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Consolidated Subsidiary or is merged or consolidated with or such Person's assets are acquired by Parent or any of its 5
Consolidated Subsidiaries and (v) any after tax gains or losses attributable to sales of non-current assets out of the ordinary course of business and write-downs of non-current assets in anticipation of losses to the extent they have decreased net income. The applicable period of determination shall be the Trailing Four Quarter Period. "Consolidated Net Worth" shall mean, as of any date, for Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, consolidated shareholders' equity or net worth (including preferred and common equity) as of such date as determined in accordance with GAAP. "Consolidated Subsidiary" shall mean, as to any Person, at any date, any Subsidiary or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of such Person in its consolidated financial statements if such statements were prepared as of such date. "Covenant Replacement Event" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.13. "Debt," of Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries shall mean, without duplication, any indebtedness of Parent or any of its Subsidiaries, whether or not contingent, in respect of: (i) borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments; (ii) indebtedness for borrowed money secured by any encumbrance existing on property owned by Parent or its Consolidated Subsidiaries, to the extent of the lesser of (x) the amount of indebtedness so secured or (y) the fair market value of the property subject to such encumbrance; (iii) all reimbursement obligations in connection with any letters of credit or amounts representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property or services, except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense, trade payable, conditional sale obligation or obligation under any title retention agreement; (iv) all net obligations of such Person under any Interest Rate Protection Agreement valued in accordance with GAAP; (v) all obligations in respect of any preferred equity to the extent payments are being made thereon; (vi) indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture or other similar entity in which such Person is a general partner or joint venturer and, as such, has personal liability for such obligations, but only if and to the extent there is recourse to such Person for payment thereof, 6
(vii) any obligations of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries with respect to redemption, repayment or other repurchase of any Equity Interest or the principal amount of any Subordinated Debt; (viii) any lease of property by Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries as lessee which is reflected as a capital lease obligation on the consolidated balance sheet of Parent or its Consolidated Subsidiaries; to the extent, in the case of items of indebtedness under clauses (i) through (viii) above, that any such items would appear as a liability on Parent's or its Consolidated Subsidiaries' consolidated balance sheet in accordance with GAAP; or (ix) the liquidation preference of any Equity Interest of Parent or any shares of preferred stock of any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries to the extent payments are being made thereon. Debt also includes, to the extent not otherwise included, any obligations by Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries to be liable for, or to pay, as obligor, guarantor or otherwise (other than for purposes of collection in the ordinary course of business), Debt of another Person (other than Parent or any other Guarantor) including Debt secured by a Lien on any assets of such Person, whether or not such Person shall have assumed such indebtedness (provided, that if such Person has not assumed such indebtedness of such other Person, then the amount of indebtedness of such Person shall be equal to the lesser of the amount of the indebtedness of such other Person or the fair market value of the assets of such Person which secures such other indebtedness); it being understood that Debt shall be deemed to be incurred by Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries whenever Parent or such Consolidated Subsidiary shall create, assume, guarantee or otherwise become liable in respect thereof; provided, however that a Person shall not be deemed to have incurred Debt (or be liable with respect to such Debt) by virtue of a Securitization. Debt shall not include (a) Debt arising from agreements of Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries providing for indemnification, adjustment or holdback of purchase price or similar obligations, in each case, incurred or assumed in connection with the acquisition or disposition of any business, assets or a Subsidiary, other than guarantees of Debt incurred by any Person acquiring all or any portion of such business, assets or Subsidiary for the purpose of financing the acquisition, (b) contingent obligations under performance bonds, performance guarantees, surety bonds, appeal bonds or similar obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices or (c) endorsements of instruments for deposit or collection in the ordinary course of business. In the case of Debt as of any date issued with original issue discount, the amount of such Debt shall be the accreted value thereof as of such date. "Default" shall mean any event the occurrence of which, upon the passage of notice and/or grace periods, if any, would constitute an "Event of Default" under the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents or the Lease Documents. 7
"Deleted Properties" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.14 of this Guaranty. "Deletion Event" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.14 of this Guaranty. "Dividend Payment" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.3 of this Guaranty. "Environmental Law" means any present and future federal, state and local laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations and the like, as well as common law, relating to protection of human health or the environment, relating to Hazardous Substances, relating to liability for or costs of other actual or threatened danger to human health or the environment. The term "Environmental Law" includes, but is not limited to, the following statutes, as amended, any successor thereto, and any regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, and any state or local statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations and the like addressing similar issues: the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act; the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act; the Hazardous Substances Transportation Act; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (including but not limited to Subtitle I relating to underground storage tanks); the Solid Waste Disposal Act; the Clean Water Act; the Clean Air Act; the Toxic Substances Control Act; the Safe Drinking Water Act; the Occupational Safety and Health Act; the Federal Water Pollution Control Act; the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act; the Endangered Species Act; the National Environmental Policy Act; and the River and Harbors Appropriation Act. The term "Environmental Law" also includes, but is not limited to, any present and future federal, state and local laws, statutes ordinances, rules, regulations and the like, as well as common law: conditioning transfer of property upon a negative declaration or other approval of a governmental authority of the environmental condition of any Property; requiring notification or disclosure of Releases of Hazardous Substances or other environmental condition of any Property to any Governmental Authority or other Person, whether or not in connection with transfer of title to or interest in property; imposing conditions or requirements in connection with permits or other authorization for lawful activity; relating to nuisance, trespass or other causes of action related to any Property; and relating to wrongful death, personal injury, or property or other damage in connection with any physical condition or use of any Property. "Equity Interest" shall mean Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock). "Event of Default" shall mean an "Event of Default" as defined in the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents and in the Lease Documents. "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. "Executive Officer" shall mean any Guarantor's president, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, any vice-president in charge of a principal business unit, 8
division or function, any other officer who performs a policy-making function or any other Person who performs similar policy making functions for such Guarantor. "Fiscal Quarter" shall mean a fiscal quarter of any Guarantor or any of their Subsidiaries, as the context may require. "Fiscal Year" shall mean a fiscal year of any Guarantor or any of their Subsidiaries, as the context may require. "Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio" shall mean, for Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, Consolidated EBITDAR for such period divided by the sum of (i) scheduled principal payments on Debt of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries required to be made during such period and amortization of discount or premium related to any such Debt for such period, whether expensed or capitalized (including any payments made pursuant to the P&S Agreement), (ii) Cash Interest Expense for such period, (iii) rent expense for such period and (iv) dividends or distributions to the extent paid on or in respect of any preferred equity of Parent for such period notwithstanding the prohibition on payment of same. The applicable period of determination shall be the Trailing Four Quarter Period. "GAAP" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (or agencies with similar functions of comparable stature and authority within the accounting profession), or in such other statements by such entity as may be in general use by significant segments of the U.S. accounting profession. "Governmental Authority" shall mean any court, board, agency, commission, office or authority of any nature whatsoever or any governmental unit (federal, state, county, district, municipal, city or otherwise) whether now or hereafter in existence, including, without limitation, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Servicers (formerly known as the Health Care Financing Administration) ("CMS"), the United States Department of Health and Human Services, any state licensing agency and/or any state Medicaid agency. "GTCR" shall mean each of GTCR Golder Rauner, L.L.C. and GTCR Fund VI, L.P., GTCR Associates VI, GTCR Fund VII, L.P., GTCR Associates VII, and GTCR Capital Partners, L.P. which are investment funds managed by GTCR Golder Rauner, L.L.C. so long as GTCR Golder Rauner L.L.C. has the power to vote and the power to dispose of the Equity Interests in the Parent held by such investment fund. "Guaranteed Obligations" shall mean (i) the prompt and complete payment of all indebtedness, debt, obligations and liabilities now or hereafter owing to Lender under or on account of the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the Mortgage Note, the Mezzanine Note, the Lease Documents or any other Loan Document or any other letters of credit, notes or other instruments issued by or to the Lender pursuant thereto, (ii) the performance of the covenants of the Mortgage Borrowers under the Mortgage Loan, the performance of the covenants of the Mezzanine Borrowers under the Mezzanine Loan, the 9
performance of the covenants of the Trans Lessees under the Sale/Leaseback Transaction and the Loan Documents and any monies expended by the Lender in connection therewith (and required to be reimbursed by any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower or any Trans Lessee pursuant to any of the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents or Lease Documents, as applicable), in all cases (whether under the foregoing clause (i) or (ii)), of any kind or nature, howsoever created or evidenced and whether now or hereafter existing, direct or indirect (including without limitation any participation interest acquired by Lender in any such indebtedness, debt, obligations or liabilities of any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any of their respective Subsidiaries to any other Person), absolute or contingent, joint and/or several, secured or unsecured, arising by operation of law or otherwise, and whether incurred by any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any of their respective Subsidiaries as principal, surety, endorser, guarantor, accommodation party or otherwise, including without limitation all principal and all interest (including any interest accruing subsequent to any petition filed by or against any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any of their respective Subsidiaries under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code), indemnity and reimbursement obligations, charges, expenses, fees, attorneys' fees and disbursements and any other amounts owing thereunder and (iii) the prompt payment, on demand, of any and all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Lender at any time in connection with enforcing the obligations of any Guarantor hereunder, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel. "Guarantor Claims" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.1 of this Guaranty. "Hazardous Substances" shall mean any and all substances (whether solid, liquid or gas) defined, listed, or otherwise classified as pollutants, toxic or hazardous wastes, toxic or hazardous substances, toxic or hazardous materials, extremely hazardous wastes, or words of similar meaning or regulatory effect under any present or future Environmental Laws or that may have a negative impact on human health or the environment, including but not limited to petroleum and petroleum products, asbestos and asbestos-containing materials, mold, polychlorinated biphenyls, lead, radon, radioactive materials, flammables and explosives, but excluding substances of kinds and in small amounts ordinarily and customarily used or stored in similar properties for the purposes of cleaning or other maintenance or operations and otherwise in compliance with all Environmental Laws. "Healthcare Facility" shall mean (i) a residential or facility-based program that provides housing and supportive services, supervision, personalized assistance, health-related services or a combination thereof which meets the needs of individuals who are unable to perform or who need assistance in performing the activities of daily living; (ii) a facility (including any Alzheimer's or dementia care unit of sub acute unit), which offers nonacute inpatient care to patients who suffer from a disease, chronic illness, or disability requiring nursing care without continuous hospital services, and who require medical services and nursing services rendered by or under the supervision of a licensed nurse, together with convalescent or restorative services now or hereafter located on a Property (any such facility, a "Nursing Facility"); or (iii) a facility that is operated as a special hospital for the exclusive purpose of providing specialized rehabilitation services, on an inpatient basis, to Persons with functional 10
limitations or chronic disabling conditions who are in medically stable condition and have the potential to achieve improvement in independent functioning. "Improvements" shall mean the buildings, structures, fixtures, additions, enlargements, extensions, modifications, repairs, replacements and improvements now or hereafter erected on any Land (as defined in the Mortgages). "Indemnified Party" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of this Guaranty. "Interest Rate Protection Agreements" shall mean any interest rate swap agreement, interest rate cap agreement, synthetic cap, collar or floor or other financial agreement or arrangement designed to protect Parent or any Loan Party against fluctuations in interest rates or to reduce the effect of any such fluctuations. "Investment" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any stock, evidence of indebtedness or other security of any Person, any loan, advance, contribution of capital, extension of credit or commitment therefor (including, without limitation, the guaranty of loans made to others, but excluding trade and customer accounts receivable arising in the ordinary course of business and payable in accordance with customary trading terms in the ordinary course of business) any purchase of (i) any security of another Person or (ii) a line of business, or all or substantially all of the assets, of any Person or any commitment to make any such purchase. If Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any direct or indirect Subsidiary such that, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, such Person is no longer a Subsidiary, Parent or such Subsidiary will be deemed to have made a Investment on the date of any such sale or disposition equal to the fair market value of the Equity Interests of such Subsidiary not sold or disposed. The acquisition by Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries of a Person that holds an Investment in a third Person will be deemed to be an Investment by Parent or such Subsidiary in such third Person in an amount equal to the fair market value of Investments held by the acquired Person in such third Person. "Investments" shall exclude extensions of trade credit on commercially reasonable terms in accordance with normal trade practices. In the event that a Person transfers assets to another Person in exchange for a combination of items of value which includes items that would be considered to be "Investments" under this definition, only those items that would be considered to be "Investments" will be treated as Investments for purposes of this Guaranty. "Lease Documents" shall mean the Master Lease, the Purchase and Sale Agreement and all other documents now or hereafter executed and/or delivered in connection with the Sale/Leaseback Transaction as such documents may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, subject, however, to the terms of this Guaranty with respect the circumstances in which the Loan Documents and the Trans Lessees may be altered or removed. "Legal Requirements" shall mean, with respect to each Obligor and each Property, all federal, state, county, municipal and other governmental statutes, laws, rules, orders, regulations, guidelines, ordinances, judgments, decrees and injunctions of Governmental Authorities affecting such Obligor or such Property or any part thereof or the construction, use, 11
alteration or operation thereof, or any part thereof, whether now or hereafter enacted and in force, including, without limitation, (i) the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, (ii) all zoning, subdivision and land use laws, regulations and ordinances, health, fire, building codes and parking laws, (ii) skilled nursing facility, residential care, personal care, adult care, boarding home and/or assisted living facility laws, rules, regulations and guidelines, including, without limitation, Medicare Regulations and Medicaid Regulations, (iii) any licensure requirements or certification requirements under applicable federal and/or state cost reimbursement programs, including, without limitation, Medicare and Medicaid, and all permits, licenses and authorizations and regulations relating thereto, and all covenants, agreements, restrictions and encumbrances contained in any instruments, either of record or known to Borrower, at any time in force affecting such Property or any part thereof, including, without limitation, any which may (i) require repairs, modifications or alterations in or to such Property or any part thereof, or (ii) in any way limit the use and enjoyment thereof. "Lien" shall mean, with respect to each Property, any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, security interest, or any other encumbrance, charge or transfer of, on or affecting such Property or any portion thereof or any Loan Party or any interest therein, including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing, the filing of any financing statement, and mechanic's, materialmen's and other similar liens and encumbrances. "Loan Parties" shall mean the Consolidated Subsidiaries of Parent, with the exception of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries. "Master Lease" shall mean the Master Lease of even date herewith by and among the Trans Lessees and Lender, as amended, modified and in effect from time to time. "Material Adverse Effect" shall mean a material adverse effect on (i) the business, condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, performance, assets, liabilities or solvency of Parent and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (ii) a material adverse effect on the ability of any Guarantor to perform its obligations under any material provisions of this Guaranty or (c) a material adverse effect on the legality, binding effect or enforceability of any material provision of any Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Document or any Lease Document or the rights and remedies of the Lender thereunder. "Medicaid" shall mean that certain program of medical assistance, funded jointly by the federal government and the states for impoverished individuals who are aged, blind and/or disabled, and for members of families with dependent children, which program is more fully described in Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. "Medicaid Regulations" shall mean, collectively, (i) all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (S)(S) 1396 et seq.) or elsewhere) affecting the medical assistance program established by Title XIX of the Social Security Act; (ii) all applicable provisions of all federal rules, regulations, manuals, orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities (whether or not having the 12
force of law) promulgated pursuant to or in connection with the statutes described in clause (i) above; (iii) all state statutes enacted and all state plans for medical assistance, and state plan amendments filed by the state with CMS in connection with the statutes and provisions described in clauses (i) and (ii) above; and (iv) all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals, orders and administrative, reimbursement, and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities (whether or not having the force of law) promulgated pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing, in each case as may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Medicare" shall mean that certain federal program providing health insurance for eligible elderly and other individuals, under which physicians, hospitals, Nursing Facilities, home health care and other providers are reimbursed for certain covered services they provide to the beneficiaries of such program, which program is more fully described in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (S)(S) 1395 et seq.) and the regulations promulgated thereunder. "Medicare Regulations" shall mean, collectively, all federal statutes (whether set forth in Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. (S)(S) 1395 et seq.) or elsewhere) affecting the health insurance program for the aged and disabled established by Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, together with all applicable provisions of all rules, regulations, manuals, orders and administrative, reimbursement and other guidelines of all Governmental Authorities promulgated pursuant to or in connection with any of the foregoing (whether or not having the force of law), as each may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Mezzanine Borrowers" as used herein shall include any new or successor corporation, association, partnership (general or limited), limited liability company joint venture, trust or other individual or organization formed as a result of any merger, reorganization, sale, transfer, devise, gift or bequest of Mezzanine Borrowers or any interest in Mezzanine Borrowers. "Mezzanine Loan Documents" shall mean the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the Mezzanine Note, this Guaranty, the Pledge Agreement and all other documents now or hereafter executed and/or delivered in connection with the Mezzanine Loan as such documents may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Mortgage" means, (a) with respect to each Property located in the State of Ohio, a first priority Mortgage, Assignment of Leases and Rents and Security Agreement or (b) with respect to each Property located in the State of Maryland, a first priority Deed of Trust, Assignment of Leases and Rents and Security Agreement, dated the date hereof, executed and delivered by Borrower as security for the Loan and encumbering such Property, as the same may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, and "Mortgages" means all such instruments collectively. "Mortgage Borrowers" as used herein shall include any new or successor corporation, association, partnership (general or limited), limited liability company joint venture, trust or other individual or organization formed as a result of any merger, reorganization, sale, transfer, devise, gift or bequest of Mortgage Borrowers or any interest in Mortgage Borrowers. 13
"Mortgage Loan Documents" shall mean the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the Mortgage Note, this Guaranty, the Pledge Agreement and all other documents now or hereafter executed and/or delivered in connection with the Mortgage Loan as such documents may be amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time. "Non-Guarantor Restrictions" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.1 of this Guaranty. "Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries" shall mean the subsidiaries of Parent listed on Schedule E hereto. "Notice" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5 of this Guaranty. "Nursing Facility" has the meaning set forth in the definition of the term "Healthcare Facility". "Obligor" shall mean, collectively, each Mortgage Borrower, each Mezzanine Borrower, each Trans Lessee and each Guarantor. "Officer's Certificate" shall mean a certificate delivered to Lender by Borrower which is signed by an authorized senior officer of Borrower. "Other Charges" means all ground rents, maintenance charges, impositions other than Taxes, and any other charges, including, without limitation, vault charges and license fees for the use of vaults, chutes and similar areas adjoining the Properties, now or hereafter levied or assessed or imposed against the Properties or any part thereof. "P&S Agreement" shall mean the Millennium Purchase and Sale Agreement, dated March 19, 2002, as amended by that certain First Addendum to Asset Purchase Agreement dated August 30, 2002 by and among Trans Healthcare, Inc. ("Parent"), an affiliate of the Borrowers, Millennium Heath Services, LLC (the "Maryland Seller"), Robert G. Owens and Stanley H. Snow (as so amended, the "Millennium Agreement") with respect to the Properties, including, but not limited to, any representations, warranties, covenants, and indemnities made by any Seller Parties (as defined in the Millennium Agreement) or the Maryland Seller to and with respect to the Properties (the "Purchase Agreement Assigned Rights"); provided, however, that the foregoing shall be without limitation upon the right of Parent or Seller to rely upon, enforce and benefit from the Purchase Agreement Assigned Rights. "Permitted Debt" shall mean (i) all Debt existing as of the date hereof listed on Schedule 1.1(b), (ii) Debt incurred pursuant to this Guaranty or any other Loan Document or Lease Document, including any renewals, refinancings or extensions thereof, (iii) Debt incurred by Parent in favor of GTCR provided that such Debt shall be Unsecured Debt in the form of preferred equity on terms and conditions substantially similar to the preferred equity outstanding on the date hereof or as are otherwise acceptable to the Lender in its sole discretion or Unsecured Debt on terms and conditions acceptable to the Lender in its sole discretion including, without limitation, that such Unsecured Debt shall be subject and subordinate in right of payment to the right of the Lender to receive the prior indefeasible payment and satisfaction in full of all Guaranteed Obligations pursuant to the terms of an intercreditor agreement between Lender and 14
GTCR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Lender, and (iv) Debt incurred by Parent in an amount of up to $5,000,000 provided that such Debt shall be Unsecured Debt and shall be on terms and conditions approved in writing in advance by Lender in its sole discretion including, without limitation, that the holder of such financing shall subordinate all payments on such financing to any payments of Parent's obligations under this Guaranty and such holder shall agree to defer payment of such financing until all of Parent's obligations under this Guaranty have terminated. "Permitted Encumbrances" shall mean Liens permitted under Section 7.2(a) hereof. "Permitted Holders" shall mean GTCR and each of the officers, employees and directors of Parent, in each case as long as such Person shall remain an officer, employee or director of Parent; provided, however, that in no event shall any Persons (other than GTCR) be deemed "Permitted Holders" with respect to more than 30% of the total voting power of the voting stock of Parent. "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, estate, trust, unincorporated association, any other entity, any federal, state, county or municipal government or any bureau, department or agency thereof and any fiduciary acting in such capacity on behalf of any of the foregoing. "Pledge Agreement" has the meaning set forth in the recitals hereto. "Pro Forma Basis" shall mean, for purposes of determining compliance with any financial covenant hereunder, that the subject transaction shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day of the applicable period ending on a Quarterly Measurement Date for which annual or quarterly financial statements shall have been delivered in accordance with the provisions of this Guaranty. Further, for purposes of making calculations on a "Pro Forma Basis" hereunder, (i) in the case of an Asset Disposition, (A) income statement items (whether positive or negative) attributable to the property, entities or business units that are the subject of such Asset Disposition shall be excluded to the extent relating to any period prior to the actual date of the subject transaction, and (B) Debt paid or retired in connection with the subject transaction shall be deemed to have been paid and retired as of the first day of the applicable period; and (ii) in the case of an Acquisition, (A) income statement items (whether positive or negative) attributable to the property, entities or business units that are the subject of such Acquisition shall be included to the extent relating to any period prior to the actual date of the subject transaction, and (B) Debt incurred in connection with the subject transaction shall be deemed to have been incurred as of the first day of the applicable period (and interest expense shall be imputed for the applicable period utilizing the actual interest rates thereunder or, if actual rates are not ascertainable, assuming prevailing interest rates hereunder). "Property" shall mean the "Property" as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the "Property" as defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the "Premises" as defined in the Master Lease and all parcels of land, buildings, structures and other improvements thereon owned or leased by any of the Guarantors. 15
"Purchase and Sale Agreement" shall mean the Purchase and Sale Agreement of even date herewith by and between Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. and Lender. "Quarterly Measurement Date" shall mean the last Business Day of March, June, September and December in each year, commencing on or after the date hereof. "Rating Agencies" shall mean, as applicable, prior to the final Securitization of the Mortgage Loan, Mezzanine Loan or the Master Lease, each of Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and Fitch, Inc. or any other nationally-recognized statistical rating agency which has been designated by Lender and, as applicable, after the final Securitization of the Mortgage Loan, Mezzanine Loan or Master Lease, shall mean any of the foregoing that have rated any of the securities issued in connection with such Securitization. "Real Estate Assets" shall mean, as of any date, the real estate assets of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on such date, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP. "Release" with respect to any Hazardous Substance includes but is not limited to any release, deposit, discharge, emission, leaking, leaching, spilling, seeping, migrating, injecting, pumping, pouring, emptying, escaping, dumping, disposing or other movement of Hazardous Substances. "Remediation" (and its correlative terms) includes but is not limited to any response, remedial, removal, or corrective action; any activity to clean up, detoxify, decontaminate, contain or otherwise remediate any Hazardous Substance; any actions to prevent, cure or mitigate any Release of any Hazardous Substance; any action to comply with any Environmental Laws or with any permits issued pursuant thereto; any inspection, investigation, study, monitoring, assessment, audit, sampling and testing, laboratory or other analysis, or evaluation relating to any Hazardous Substances or to anything referred to herein, including the preparation of any plans, studies, reports or documents with respect thereto. "Replacement Guaranty" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.14 of this Guaranty. "Replacement Guaranty Election" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.14 of this Guaranty. "Requirements" shall mean all applicable present and future laws, statutes, codes, ordinances, orders, judgments, decrees, injunctions, rules, regulations and requirements of every Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over Parent or any Loan Party or any Property and all restrictive covenants applicable to any Property. "Secondary Market Transaction" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.17 of this Guaranty. 16
"Secured Debt" shall mean all Debt of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries secured by a mortgage, lien, charge, pledge or security interest or other encumbrance on the property of Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries. "Securitization" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.17 of this Guaranty. "Service Guarantors" shall mean the subsidiaries of Parent listed on Schedule F hereto. "Subordinated Debt" shall mean Debt which by the terms of such Debt is subordinated in right of payment to the principal of and interest and premium, if any, on the loans and obligations owing hereunder and the guaranties thereof. "Subsidiary" shall mean, as to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which at least the majority of the outstanding voting stock or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors (or the equivalent) is at the time directly or indirectly owned or controlled by such Person or by one or more of any entities directly or indirectly controlled by such Person. "Taxes" means all real estate and personal property taxes, assessments, water rates or sewer rents, now or hereafter levied or assessed or imposed against any of the Properties or part thereof, together with all interest and penalties thereon. "Title Company" shall mean The First American Title Company or any other title insurance company of recognized national standing which is acceptable to the Lender in its sole discretion. "Total Consolidated Assets" shall mean, at any date, the total assets of the Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of such date determined in accordance with GAAP. "Trailing Four Quarter Period" shall mean the period of four consecutive full fiscal quarters of the Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries ended on such date (or, in the case of any such date which is earlier than December 31, 2003, for the period from the Closing Date to and including such date multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is 365 and the denominator of which is the number of days in such period). "Unsecured Debt" shall mean any Debt of Parent or its Consolidated Subsidiaries that is not Secured Debt. "Updated Information" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.17 of this Guaranty. ARTICLE II - NATURE AND SCOPE OF GUARANTY Section 2.1 Guaranty of Obligations. Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to Lender and its successors and assigns the payment and performance of the Guaranteed Obligations as and when the same shall be due and payable, 17
whether by lapse of time, by acceleration of maturity or otherwise. Each Guarantor hereby irrevocably and unconditionally covenants and agrees that it is liable for the Guaranteed Obligations as a primary obligor. Section 2.2 Nature of Guaranty. This Guaranty is an irrevocable, absolute, continuing guaranty of payment and performance and not a guaranty of collection. This Guaranty may not be revoked by any Guarantor and shall continue to be effective with respect to any Guaranteed Obligations arising or created after any attempted revocation by any Guarantor. The fact that at any time or from time to time the Guaranteed Obligations may be increased or reduced shall not release or discharge the obligation of each Guarantor to Lender with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations. This Guaranty may be enforced by Lender, any subsequent holder of the Mortgage Note, the Mezzanine Note and any successor or assignee of Lender to the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement and the Sale/Leaseback Transaction and shall not be discharged by the assignment of any of the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents or the Lease Documents or the assignment and negotiation of all or part of the Mortgage Note, Mezzanine Note or the Lease Documents. Section 2.3 Guaranteed Obligations Not Reduced by Offset. The Guaranteed Obligations and the liabilities and obligations of each Guarantor to Lender hereunder shall not be reduced, discharged or released because or by reason of any existing or future offset, claim or defense of any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any other party against Lender or against payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, whether such offset, claim or defense arises in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations (or the transactions creating the Guaranteed Obligations) or otherwise. Section 2.4 Payment by Guarantor. If all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations shall not be punctually paid when due, whether at demand, maturity, acceleration or otherwise, each Guarantor shall, immediately upon demand by Lender and without presentment, protest, notice of protest, notice of non-payment, notice of intention to accelerate the maturity, notice of acceleration of the maturity or any other notice whatsoever, pay in lawful money of the United States of America, the amount due on the Guaranteed Obligations to Lender at Lender's address as set forth herein. Such demand(s) may be made at any time coincident with or after the time for payment of all or part of the Guaranteed Obligations and may be made from time to time with respect to the same or different items of Guaranteed Obligations. Such demand shall be deemed made, given and received in accordance with the notice provisions hereof. Section 2.5 No Duty to Pursue Others. It shall not be necessary for Lender (and each Guarantor hereby waives any rights which each Guarantor may have to require Lender), in order to enforce the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder, first to (i) institute suit or exhaust its remedies against any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower or any Trans Lessee or others liable on the Guaranteed Obligations or any other Person, (ii) enforce Lender's rights against any collateral which shall ever have been given to secure the Guaranteed Obligations, (iii) enforce Lender's rights against any other guarantors of the Guaranteed Obligations, (iv) join any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower or any Trans Lessee or any others liable on the Guaranteed Obligations in any action seeking to enforce this Guaranty, (v) exhaust any remedies available to Lender against any collateral which shall ever have been 18
given to secure the Guaranteed Obligations, or (vi) resort to any other means of obtaining payment of the Guaranteed Obligations. Lender shall not be required to mitigate damages or take any other action to reduce, collect or enforce the Guaranteed Obligations. Section 2.6 Waivers. Each Guarantor agrees to the provisions of the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents and the Lease Documents and hereby waives notice of (i) any loans or advances made by Lender to any Obligor, (ii) acceptance of this Guaranty, (iii) any amendment, modification, replacement or extension of the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the Mortgage Note, the Mezzanine Note, the Pledge Agreement, any other Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Document or any Lease Document, (iv) the execution and delivery by any Obligor and Lender of any other loan or credit agreement or of any Obligor's, execution and delivery of any promissory notes or other documents arising under the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents, in connection with any Property, or under any Lease Document, (v) the occurrence of any breach by any Obligor or a Default, (vi) Lender's transfer or disposition of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any part thereof, (vii) sale or foreclosure (or posting or advertising for sale or foreclosure) of any collateral for the Guaranteed Obligations, (viii) protest, proof of non-payment or default by any Obligor, (ix) any release in whole or in part, of any security for the Guaranteed Obligations, (x) any forbearance, waiver, consent, indulgence or other action or inaction which Lender may hereafter consent to, accord, grant or take with respect to any Obligor in respect of the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the Mortgage Note, the Mezzanine Note, the Pledge Agreement, any other Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Document or any Lease Document or (xi) any other action at any time taken or omitted by Lender and, generally, all demands and notices of every kind in connection with this Guaranty, the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents, the Lease Documents or any documents or agreements evidencing, securing or relating to any of the Guaranteed Obligations and the obligations hereby guaranteed. Section 2.7 Payment of Expenses. In the event that any Guarantor should breach or fail to timely perform any provisions of this Guaranty, each Guarantor shall, immediately upon demand by Lender, pay Lender all costs and expenses (including court costs and attorneys' fees) incurred by Lender in the enforcement hereof or the preservation of Lender's rights hereunder. The covenant contained in this Section shall survive the payment and performance of the Guaranteed Obligations. Section 2.8 Joint and Several Obligations. The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall be several and also joint each with all or with any one or more of the other parties now or hereafter guaranteeing any of the Guaranteed Obligations, and such obligations of each Guarantor may be enforced against each Guarantor separately or against any two or more jointly, or against some separately and some jointly. Section 2.9 Effect of Bankruptcy. In the event that pursuant to any insolvency, bankruptcy, reorganization, receivership or other debtor relief law or any judgment, order or decision thereunder, Lender must rescind or restore any payment or any part thereof received by Lender in satisfaction of the Guaranteed Obligations, as set forth herein, any prior release or discharge from the terms of this Guaranty given to each Guarantor by Lender shall be without effect and this Guaranty shall remain in full force and effect. It is the intention of each 19
Guarantor that each its respective obligations hereunder shall not be discharged except by such Guarantor's performance of such obligations and then only to the extent of such performance. Section 2.10 Waiver of Subrogation, Reimbursement and Contribution. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Guaranty, unless and until the indefeasible payment and satisfaction in full of all of the Guaranteed Obligations, each Guarantor hereby unconditionally and irrevocably waives, releases and abrogates any and all rights it may now or hereafter have under any agreement, at law or in equity (including, without limitation, any law subrogating each Guarantor to the rights of Lender), to assert any claim against or seek contribution, indemnification or any other form of reimbursement from any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower or any Trans Lessee or any other party liable for payment of any or all of the Guaranteed Obligations for any payment made by Guarantor under or in connection with this Guaranty or otherwise. Section 2.11 Security for Guaranteed Obligations. Parent and certain of the Guarantors shall pledge, transfer and assign pursuant to the Pledge Agreement and grant to Lender as security for the payment and performance of the Guaranteed Obligations a continuing perfected security interest in and to and general first lien upon the Pledged Equity (as defined in the Pledge Agreement) pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. Section 2.12 Termination of Guaranty as to Mortgage Loan. Upon Lender's election, upon the inclusion of the Mortgage Loan in a Secondary Market Transaction including, but not limited to a Securitization (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement), the Guaranty shall terminate as to that portion of the Mortgage Loan as Lender shall elect. From and after such election, this Guaranty shall be interpreted without reference to the terms relating to the Mortgage Borrowers, Mortgage Loan, Mortgage Note, Mortgage Loan Agreement, Mortgage Loan Documents and such other terms relating solely to the Mortgage Loan. Obligors shall execute such amendments to the Mortgage Loan Documents, including, but not limited to, this Guaranty and the Pledge Agreement as Lender shall request to effectuate the foregoing. Section 2.13 Termination of Certain Covenants. Within thirty (30) days after the date that the terms of Sections 2.4.2(b) or 8.2(b)(as applicable), and 24.2 of the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement and the Master Lease respectively are satisfied including, without limitation, the indefeasible prepayment in full of the Mezzanine Loan, upon the payment by Parent to Lender of security deposits under the Master Lease in an amount equal to two years rent (after taking into account the amount of security deposits already held by Parent), Parent may elect, in its sole discretion, to terminate the application of the covenants provided in Articles VI and VII hereof (a "Covenant Replacement Event") and thereafter this Guaranty shall be interpreted without reference to such covenants. Section 2.14 New Leases; Revise Lease Documents. Each Guarantor acknowledges and agrees that the Master Lease permits the Lender to elect, in its sole discretion, to : (i) delete and eliminate one or more Lease Properties (as defined in the Master Lease) from the Master Lease (a "Deletion Event"); (ii) upon the occurrence of a Deletion Event, require that those Trans Lessees which lease the Leased Properties that are the subject of a Deletion Event (the "Deleted Properties") execute and enter into a New Lease (as defined in the Master Lease) with the Lender on substantially the same terms as are contained in the Master Lease (as more 20
particularly described and discussed in Section 42 in the Master Lease); and (iii) to add one or more Additional Properties (as defined in the Master Lease) to the Master Lease pursuant to Section 41 of the Master Lease (an "Addition Event"). Upon the occurrence of a Deletion Event, the Lender may elect, in its sole discretion, to (i) terminate this Guaranty as to the Deleted Properties for all relevant purposes; (ii) require that the Guarantors execute and enter into a new guaranty of any New Lease containing the same terms and conditions as this Guaranty as to such New Lease and the applicable Leased Properties and a new Pledge Agreement as to such New Lease and the applicable Leased Properties; or (iii) allow any New Lease to constitute a Lease Document within the meaning of this Guaranty. If the Lender elects alternative (i) or alternative (ii) of the preceding sentence, (i) the Lease Documents shall no longer include any New Lease, (ii) the Property shall no longer include the Deleted Properties; (iii) the Trans Entities shall no longer include the "tenants" of the Deleted Properties; and (iv) this Guaranty shall be interpreted without reference to the Deleted Properties or such Trans Entities. Upon the occurrence of an Addition Event, the Lender may elect, in its sole discretion, to require that the Additional Properties again be subject to this Guaranty. The Lender may elect, in its sole discretion, to delete and eliminate the Lease Documents, the Leased Properties and the Trans Lessees from this Guaranty for all relevant purposes (a "Replacement Guaranty Election") and require that the Guarantors provide an independent, stand alone guaranty for the Lease Documents containing the same terms, conditions, assurances and guarantees as this Guaranty, but relating exclusively to the Sale/Leaseback Transaction. If the Lender makes a Replacement Guaranty Election, (a) this Guaranty shall terminate as to the Sale/Leaseback Transaction at such time as the Replacement Guaranty (as hereinafter defined) has been executed by all of the Guarantors; (b) this Guaranty shall be interpreted without reference to the terms relating to the Trans Lessees, the Sale/Leaseback Transaction or the Lease Documents at such time as the Replacement Guaranty has been executed by each Guarantor; and (c) the Guarantors shall execute and enter into a guaranty to and for the benefit of the Lender as to the Sale/Leaseback Transaction and the Lease Documents (the "Replacement Guaranty") containing the same terms, conditions, protections, guarantees and assurances as this Guaranty but relating solely to the Sale/Leaseback Transaction and the Lease Documents. Obligors shall execute such amendments to the Lease Documents, this Guaranty, the Mortgage Loan Documents and the Pledge Agreement as Lender shall request to effectuate any of the foregoing. ARTICLE III - EVENTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES NOT REDUCING OR DISCHARGING GUARANTOR'S OBLIGATIONS Section 3.1 Events and Circumstances Not Reducing or Discharging Guarantor's Obligations. Each Guarantor hereby consents and agrees to each of the following and agrees that its respective obligations under this Guaranty shall not be released, diminished, impaired, reduced or adversely affected by any of the following and waives any common law, equitable, statutory or other rights (including without limitation rights to notice) which each Guarantor might otherwise have as a result of or in connection with any of the following: (a) Modifications. Any renewal, extension, increase, modification, alteration or rearrangement of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations, any Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Document, any Lease Document or any other document, instrument, contract or understanding between any Obligor and Lender 21
or any other parties pertaining to the Guaranteed Obligations or any failure of Lender to notify each Guarantor of any such action. (b) Adjustment. Any adjustment, indulgence, waiver, forbearance or compromise that might be granted or given by Lender to any Obligor or any Guarantor. (c) Condition of Borrower or Guarantors. The insolvency, bankruptcy, arrangement, adjustment, composition, liquidation, disability, dissolution or lack of power of any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee, any Guarantor or any other party at any time liable for the payment of all or part of the Guaranteed Obligations; or any dissolution of any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any Guarantor or any sale, lease or transfer of any or all of the assets of any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any Guarantor or any changes in the shareholders, partners or members of any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any Guarantor; or any reorganization of any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any Guarantor. (d) Invalidity of Guaranteed Obligations. The invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations or any document or agreement executed in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations for any reason whatsoever, including without limitation the fact that (i) the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof exceeds the amount permitted by law, (ii) the act of creating the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof is ultra vires, (iii) the officers or representatives executing the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the Mortgage Note, the Mezzanine Note, the Pledge Agreement, any other Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Document or any Lease Document or otherwise creating the Guaranteed Obligations acted in excess of their authority, (iv) the Guaranteed Obligations violate applicable usury laws, (v) any Obligor has valid defenses, claims or offsets (whether at law, in equity or by agreement) which render the Guaranteed Obligations wholly or partially uncollectible from such Obligor, (vi) the creation, performance or repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations (or the execution, delivery and performance of any document or instrument representing part of the Guaranteed Obligations or executed in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations or given to secure the repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations) is illegal, uncollectible or unenforceable, or (vii) the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the Mortgage Note, the Mezzanine Note, the Pledge Agreement, any other Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Document or any Lease Document have been forged or otherwise are irregular or not genuine or authentic, it being agreed that each Guarantor shall remain liable hereon regardless of whether any Obligor or any other Person be found not liable on the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof for any reason. (e) Release of Obligors. Any full or partial release of the liability of any Obligor on the Guaranteed Obligations or any part thereof, or of any co-guarantors, or any other Person now or hereafter liable, whether directly or indirectly, jointly, severally, or jointly and severally, to pay, perform, guarantee or assure the 22
payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any part thereof, it being recognized, acknowledged and agreed by Guarantor that Guarantor may be required to pay the Guaranteed Obligations in full without assistance or support of any other party, and each Guarantor has not been induced to enter into this Guaranty on the basis of a contemplation, belief, understanding or agreement that other parties will be liable to pay or perform the Guaranteed Obligations, or that Lender will look to other parties to pay or perform the Guaranteed Obligations. (f) Other Collateral. The taking or accepting of any other security, collateral or guaranty, or other assurance of payment, for all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations. (g) Release of Collateral. Any release, surrender, exchange, subordination, deterioration, waste, loss or impairment (including without limitation negligent, willful, unreasonable or unjustifiable impairment) of any collateral, property or security at any time existing in connection with, or assuring or securing payment of, all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations. (h) Care and Diligence. The failure of Lender or any other party to exercise diligence or reasonable care in the preservation, protection, enforcement, sale or other handling or treatment of all or any part of any collateral, property or security, including but not limited to any neglect, delay, omission, failure or refusal of Lender (i) to take or prosecute any action for the collection of any of the Guaranteed Obligations or (ii) to foreclose, or initiate any action to foreclose, or, once commenced, prosecute to completion any action to foreclose upon any security therefor, or (iii) to take or prosecute any action in connection with any instrument or agreement evidencing or securing all or any part of the Guaranteed Obligations. (i) Unenforceability. The fact that any collateral, security, security interest or lien contemplated or intended to be given, created or granted as security for the repayment of the Guaranteed Obligations, or any part thereof, shall not be properly perfected or created, or shall prove to be unenforceable or subordinate to any other security interest or lien, it being recognized and agreed by each Guarantor that it is not entering into this Guaranty in reliance on, or in contemplation of the benefits of, the validity, enforceability, collectibility or value of any of the collateral for the Guaranteed Obligations. (j) Offset. The Guaranteed Obligations and the liabilities and obligations of each Guarantor to Lender hereunder shall not be reduced, discharged or released because of or by reason of any existing or future right of offset, claim or defense of any Obligor against Lender, or any other party, or against payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, whether such right of offset, claim or defense arises in connection with the Guaranteed Obligations (or the transactions creating the Guaranteed Obligations) or otherwise. (k) Merger. The reorganization, merger or consolidation of any Obligor into or with any other Person. 23
(l) Preference. Any payment by any Obligor to Lender is held to constitute a preference under bankruptcy laws or for any reason Lender is required to refund such payment or pay such amount to any Obligor or someone else. (m) Other Actions Taken or Omitted. Any other action taken or omitted to be taken with respect to the Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Documents, the Lease Documents, the Guaranteed Obligations, or the security and collateral therefor, whether or not such action or omission prejudices any Guarantor or increases the likelihood that any Guarantor will be required to pay the Guaranteed Obligations pursuant to the terms hereof, it is the unambiguous and unequivocal intention of each Guarantor that it shall be obligated to pay the Guaranteed Obligations when due, notwithstanding any occurrence, circumstance, event, action, or omission whatsoever, whether contemplated or uncontemplated, and whether or not otherwise or particularly described herein, which obligation shall be deemed satisfied only upon the full and final payment and satisfaction of the Guaranteed Obligations. ARTICLE IV - REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND AGREEMENTS Section 4.1 Representations and Warranties. To induce Lender to enter into the Loan Documents and extend credit to each Mortgage Borrower and the Mezzanine Borrower and enter into the Sale/Leaseback Transaction with the Trans Lessees, each Guarantor represents and warrants to Lender as follows: (a) Benefit. (i) Parent is the owner of a direct or indirect interest in each Mortgage Borrower, each Trans Lessee and each Mezzanine Borrower, and has received, or will receive, direct or indirect benefit from the making of this Guaranty with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations. (ii) Each Guarantor is an Affiliate of each Mortgage Borrower, each Mezzanine Borrower and each Trans Lessee, and has received, or will receive, direct or indirect benefit from the making of this Guaranty with respect to the Guaranteed Obligations. (iii) Obligors make up a related organization of various entities constituting a single economic and business enterprise so that Obligors share an identity of interests such that any benefit received by any one of them benefits the others. (b) Familiarity and Reliance. Each Guarantor is familiar with, and has independently reviewed books and records regarding, the financial condition of each Mortgage Borrower, each Mezzanine Borrower and each Trans Lessee and is familiar with the value of any and all collateral intended to be created as security for the payment of the obligations evidenced by the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents, Lease Documents or Guaranteed Obligations; however, each Guarantor is not relying on such financial condition or the collateral as an inducement to enter into this Guaranty. 24
(c) No Representation by Lender. Neither Lender nor any other party has made any representation, warranty or statement to any Guarantor in order to induce such Guarantor to execute this Guaranty. (d) Guarantor's Financial Condition. As of the date hereof, and after giving effect to this Guaranty and the contingent obligation evidenced hereby, each Guarantor is and will be solvent and has and will have assets which, fairly valued, exceed its obligations, liabilities (including contingent liabilities) and debts, and has and will have property and assets sufficient to satisfy and repay its obligations and liabilities. (e) Legality. The execution, delivery and performance by each Guarantor of this Guaranty and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereunder do not and will not contravene or conflict with any law, statute or regulation whatsoever to which each Guarantor is subject or constitute a default (or an event which with notice or lapse of time or both would constitute a default) under, or result in the breach of, any indenture, mortgage, charge, lien, or any contract, agreement or other instrument to which such Guarantor is a party or which may be applicable to such Guarantor. This Guaranty has been duly authorized and approved on the part of each Guarantor by all necessary corporate action, and this Guaranty is a legal and binding obligation of each Guarantor, is enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or other laws of general application relating to the enforcement of creditors' rights. (f) True and Complete Disclosure. (i) All information, documents, financial reports and other projections, which have been made available to Lender by any Guarantor or its Subsidiaries, in connection with the negotiation, preparation or delivery of the Loan Documents and the Lease Documents, including this Guaranty, whether prior to or after the date of this Guaranty, when taken as a whole, are true, correct and complete in all material respects and do not or will not, contain any untrue statement of material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements contained therein not misleading in any material respect, and all financial projections, results or reports concerning Parent or any Trans Entity that have been or are hereafter made available to Lender by any Guarantor or its Subsidiaries have been or will be prepared in good faith based upon the assumptions Parent believes to be reasonable; provided, however, the foregoing representation and warranty shall not constitute a guaranty by Parent or any Trans Entity regarding the future performance of the Properties as may be set forth in any projections. (ii) Parent has delivered to Lender a true and complete copy of all financing, partnership and other documents which restrict Parent from pledging its Equity Interests in each of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries and prohibit each Non-Guarantor Subsidiary from executing and delivering this Guaranty (collectively, the "Non-Guarantor Restrictions"). (iii) Parent has delivered to Lender a true and complete copy of all documents with GTCR which create an Equity Interest in Parent or any of its 25
Consolidated Subsidiaries or any Debt as to Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries. (iv) Parent has delivered to Lender a true and complete copy of the P&S Agreement. (g) Bankruptcy. Each Guarantor or its Subsidiaries is not party to, nor has it ever contemplated, any bankruptcy, insolvency or similar proceeding. (h) Default. Neither Parent nor the contract sellers are in default pursuant to the P&S Agreement, which P&S Agreement is in full force and effect and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the parties thereto. The P&S Agreement provides Parent (and its successors and assigns) with the unconditional right to acquire the certain properties (the "Acquired Properties") on or prior to the Closing Date and Parent is not aware of any fact or condition that has occurred (or failed to occur) which would prevent Parent (or its successors or assigns) from acquiring the Acquired Properties pursuant to the P&S Agreement. (i) Indemnification. Parent agrees and does hereby indemnify and hold harmless the Lender, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective directors, officers, employees, advisors and agents (each, an "Indemnified Party") from and against (and will reimburse each Indemnified Party as the same are incurred) any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) that may be incurred by or asserted or awarded against any Indemnified Party, in each case arising out of or in connection with or by reason of (including, without limitation, in connection with any investigation, litigation or proceeding or preparation of a defense in connection therewith) any matters contemplated by any Loan Document or Lease Document other than those losses, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses solely attributable to the Lender's gross negligence or willful misconduct. (j) Survival. All representations, warranties and agreements in this Article 4 made by each Guarantor herein shall survive the execution hereof. ARTICLE V - COVENANTS Each Guarantor covenants and agrees with the Lender that, so long as (i) the Mortgage Loan or the Mezzanine Loan or any additional credit is outstanding and until payment in full of all amounts payable by any Mortgage Borrower pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Mortgage Loan Agreement and all amounts payable by any Mezzanine Borrower pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement (other than the covenants that survive payment in full) or (ii) the Sale/Leaseback Transaction is outstanding and until payment in full of all amounts payable by any Trans Lessee pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Sale/Leaseback Transaction (other than the covenants that survive payment in full): Section 5.1 Financial Statements, Etc. Each Guarantor will deliver the following information to the Lender: 26
(a) as soon as available, and in any event within one hundred twenty (120) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, in hard copy and electronic format and presented on a consolidated as well as a property-by-property basis, financial statements prepared for such year with respect to the Guarantors, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such year, together with related statements of income and capital for such Fiscal Year, audited by a "Big Four" accounting firm or a nationally recognized, independent certified public accounting firm reasonably satisfactory to Lender whose opinion shall be to the effect that such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis and shall not be qualified as to the scope of the audit or as to the status of such Guarantor as a going concern or any other material qualification. Together with each Guarantor's annual financial statements, each Guarantor shall furnish to Lender an Officer's Certificate (i) certifying as of the date thereof whether to the best of such Guarantor's knowledge there exists an event or circumstance which constitutes a Default or Event of Default and if such Default or Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same and (ii) demonstrating in reasonable detail compliance with the provisions of Sections 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4 and 7.1 (including in detail all calculations necessary therein). (b) as soon as available and in any event within 45 days after the close of each Fiscal Year, unaudited financial statements prepared for such year with respect to Guarantors, including a balance sheet and operating statement as of the end of such year, together with related statements of income and capital for such Fiscal Year. Together with each Guarantor's interim financial statements, each Guarantor shall furnish to Lender an Officer's Certificate (i) certifying as of the date thereof whether to the best of such Guarantor's knowledge there exists an event or circumstance which constitutes a Default or Event of Default and if such Default or Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same and (ii) demonstrating in reasonable detail compliance with the provisions of Sections 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4 and 7.1 (including in detail all calculations necessary therein). (c) as soon as available and in any event within 45 days after the end of each of the first three Fiscal Quarters of each Fiscal Year of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, (i) an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, together with the related consolidated and consolidating statements of operations for such Fiscal Quarter and for the portion of the Fiscal Year ended at such Fiscal Quarter and of cash flows for the portion of the Fiscal Year ended at the end of such Fiscal Quarter, setting forth in comparative form the unaudited consolidated and consolidating statements of operations and cash flows (to the extent available) for the corresponding Fiscal Quarter and the corresponding portion of the previous Fiscal Year, all prepared in accordance with GAAP. Together with each Guarantor's interim financial statements, each Guarantor shall furnish to Lender an Officer's Certificate (i) certifying as of the date thereof whether to the best of such Guarantor's knowledge there exists an event or circumstance which constitutes a Default or Event of Default and if such Default or Event of Default exists, the nature thereof, the period of time it has existed and the action then being taken to remedy the same and (ii) 27
demonstrating in reasonable detail compliance with the provisions of Sections 6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4 and 7.1 (including in detail all calculations necessary therein). (d) as soon as available and in any event within 30 days after the end of each month of each Fiscal Year of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, (i) an unaudited consolidated balance sheet of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, together with the related consolidated and consolidating statements of operations for such month and for the portion of the Fiscal Year ended at such month and of cash flows for the portion of the Fiscal Year ended at the end of such month, setting forth in comparative form the unaudited consolidated and consolidating statements of operations and cash flows (to the extent available) for the corresponding month and the corresponding portion of the previous Fiscal Year. (e) notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, within two days after the sending or filing thereof, furnish or cause to be furnished to Lender copies of all reports, financial statements and proxy statements which each Guarantor or its Subsidiaries sends to its stockholders generally and copies of all reports (including annual, quarterly or current reports), proxy statements and registration statements (other than the exhibits thereto and any registration statements on Form S-8 or its equivalent) which any such Person files with the Securities and Exchange Commission, any national or local securities exchange or the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (f) within five Business Days after any executive officer or senior financial officer of any Guarantor obtains knowledge of (i) any Default, including any action or condition which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, including but not limited to the knowledge of any default, action, suit, proceeding, investigation or arbitration by any Governmental Authority or other Person against or affecting Parent or any Loan Party or any of its assets, and (ii) if such Default is then continuing, a certificate of a senior financial officer setting forth the details thereof and the action that each Guarantor is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto; (g) promptly, upon receipt or delivery by Parent or any Loan Party, any notice of default under any agreement relating to Property or any material agreement which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect; (h) promptly after any member of the ERISA Group (i) gives or is required to give notice to the PBGC of any "reportable event" (as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA) with respect to any Plan which might constitute grounds for a termination of such Plan under Title IV of ERISA, or knows that the plan administrator of any Plan has given or is required to give notice of any such reportable event, a copy of the notice of such reportable event given or required to be given to the PBGC; (ii) receives notice of complete or partial withdrawal liability under Title 1V of ERISA or notice that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization, is insolvent or has been terminated, a copy of such notice; (iii) receives notice from the PBGC under Title IV of ERISA of an intent to terminate, impose liability (other than for premiums under Section 4007 of ERISA) in respect of, or appoint a trustee to administer any Plan, a copy of such notice; (iv) applies for a waiver of the minimum funding standard under Section 412 of 28
the Internal Revenue Code, a copy of such application; (v) gives notice of intent to terminate any Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, a copy of such notice and other information filed with the PBGC, (vi) gives notice of withdrawal from any Plan pursuant to Section 4063 of ERISA, a copy of such notice; or (vii) fails to make any payment or contribution to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan or makes any amendment to any Plan which has resulted or could result in the imposition of a Lien or the posting of a bond or other security, a certificate of a Financial Officer setting forth details as to such occurrence and the action, if any, which any Obligor or the applicable member of the ERISA Group is required or proposes to take; (i) as soon as reasonably practicable after any Executive Officer obtains knowledge of the commencement of an action, suit or proceeding against any Obligor, any Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official in which there is a reasonable possibility of an adverse decision which could have a Material Adverse Effect or which in any manner questions the validity of any Loan Document, Officer's Certificate setting forth the nature of such action, suit or proceeding and such additional information as may be reasonably requested by the Lender; (j) promptly after an Executive Officer obtains knowledge of one or more judgments or orders of a court or arbitrator or regulatory authority for the payment of money aggregating in excess of $250,000 rendered against any Obligor, any Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries, Officer's Certificate setting forth the nature and amount of such judgment and whether any Obligor or Guarantor intends to seek a stay or appeal of such judgment made such additional information as may be reasonably requested by the Lender; (k) promptly upon each Guarantor's receipt from its independent public accountants of any management letter which indicates a material weakness in the reporting practices of any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee or any Guarantor, a description of such material weakness and any action being taken with respect thereto; (l) within 15 days after the commencement of each Fiscal Year, (i) cash flow, balance sheet and income statement forecasts in reasonable detail for Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries prepared on a monthly basis for the Fiscal Year and, promptly when available, any material revisions of such forecast and (ii) Parent's business and financial plans for such Fiscal Year, setting forth the assumptions used in preparing such plans and, promptly when available, any material revisions of such plans; (m) promptly upon their becoming available, copies of all press releases and other statements made available generally by any Obligor, including, but not limited to, each Guarantor to the public concerning material developments in its business; (n) from time to time such additional information as the Lender may reasonably request in writing relating to the business of each Guarantor or any of its 29
respective Subsidiaries including, without limitation, information regarding any of their financial position and results of operations, actuarial reports and insurance coverage. Section 5.2 Transactions with Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries. Each Guarantor shall furnish to the Lender an Officer's Certificate at the end of each Fiscal Quarter certifying (i) any Investment made by Parent or a Loan Party in the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries and (ii) evidence of any dividend or distribution received by Parent or any Loan Party from the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries in cash on a non-contingent basis, without any obligation to return such dividend or distribution by Parent or any Loan Party. Section 5.3 Maintenance of Property. Each Guarantor will keep, and shall cause each of their respective Subsidiaries to keep, all property useful and necessary in its business in good working order and condition, ordinary wear and tear, casualty and condemnation excepted. Section 5.4 Insurance. (a) Insurance Policies. Subject to the terms of the Mortgage Loan Documents, the Mezzanine Loan Documents and the Loan Documents, (A) each Guarantor will maintain, and shall cause each of their respective Subsidiaries to maintain, insurance for each Guarantor and its respective Subsidiaries and each Property providing at least the following coverages: (i) coverage for loss or damage by fire, lightning, wind and such other perils as are included in a standard "all risk" or "special causes of loss" endorsement and against loss or damage by other risks and hazards covered by a standard property insurance policy including, without limitation, riot, civil commotion, vandalism, malicious mischief, burglary and theft on the Improvements and the personal property at the Property, including contingent liability from Operation of Building Laws, Demolition Costs and Increased Cost of Construction Endorsements, in each case (A) in an amount equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the "Full Replacement Cost," which for purposes of this Guaranty shall mean actual replacement value (exclusive of costs of excavations, foundations, underground utilities and footings) with a waiver of depreciation, but as to the "Properties" as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement and the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, the amount shall in no event be less than the Allocated Loan Amount (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement and the Mezzanine Loan Agreement) of such property; (B) containing an agreed amount endorsement with respect to the Improvements and personal property at the Property waiving all co-insurance provisions; (C) providing for no deductible in excess of Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,000) for all such insurance coverage; and (D) containing (a) an "Ordinance or Law Coverage" or "Enforcement" endorsement and (b) "demolition" insurance (in an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the value of the Improvements) and "increased cost of construction" insurance (equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the value of the Improvements, or such other amount approved by Lender, if any of the Improvements or the use of the applicable Property shall at any time constitute legal non-conforming structures or uses. In addition, each Guarantor shall obtain, and shall cause each of their respective Subsidiaries to obtain: (y) if any portion of the Improvements is currently or at any time 30
in the future located in a federally designated "special flood hazard area", flood hazard insurance in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the "Full Replacement Cost" (defined above) but as to the "Properties" as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement and the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, no less than the Allocated Loan Amount (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement and the Mezzanine Loan Agreement) of the applicable property or (2) the maximum amount of such insurance available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 or the National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994, as each may be amended; and (z) earthquake insurance in amounts and in form and substance satisfactory to Lender in the event the applicable Property is located in an area with a high degree of seismic activity, provided that the insurance pursuant to clauses (y) and (z) hereof shall be on terms consistent with the comprehensive all risk insurance policy required under this subsection (i). (ii) commercial general liability insurance against claims for personal injury, bodily injury, death or property damage occurring upon, in or about the Property, such insurance (A) to be on the so-called "occurrence" (or claims made form if the "occurrence" form is not available at commercially reasonable prices) form with a combined limit, excluding umbrella coverage, of not less than One Million and No/100 Dollars ($1,000,000) per occurrence with a minimum Three Million and No/100 Dollars ($3,000,000) general aggregate; (B) to continue at not less than the aforesaid limit until required to be changed by Lender by reason of changed economic conditions making such protection inadequate; and (C) to cover at least the following hazards: (1) premises and operations; (2) products and completed operations on an "if any" basis; (3) independent contractors; (4) blanket contractual liability for all legal contracts; (5) contractual liability covering the indemnities contained in Article 9 of the related Mortgage to the extent the same is available; (6) broad form property damage; (7) personal injury (including death resulting therefrom); (8) healthcare professional liability and (9) a liquor liability endorsement if alcoholic beverages are sold at the Property and (B) with a deductible of no more than $10,000. (iii) business interruption insurance (A) with loss payable to Lender in the case of the Properties securing the Mortgage Loan and Mezzanine Loan or subject to the Lease Documents; (B) covering all risks required to be covered by the insurance provided for in subsection (i) above and (xi) below; (C) in an amount sufficient to avoid any co-insurance penalty and to provide proceeds which will cover a period of not less than eighteen (18) months from the date of casualty or loss; (D) containing an extended period of indemnity endorsement which provides that after the physical loss to the Property has been repaired, the continued loss of income will be insured until such income returns to the same level it was prior to the loss, or the expiration twenty-four (24) months from the date of the loss, whichever first occurs, and notwithstanding that the policy may expire prior to the end of such period. The amount of coverage shall be no less than $12,000,000; (iv) at all times during which structural construction, repairs or alterations are being made with respect to the Improvements, and only if the applicable Property's coverage form does not otherwise apply, (A) owner's contingent or protective liability insurance covering claims not covered by or under the terms or provisions of the 31
above mentioned commercial general liability insurance policy; and (B) the insurance provided for in subsection (i) above written in a so-called builder's risk completed value form (1) on a non-reporting basis, (2) against all risks insured against pursuant to subsection (i) above, (3) including permission to occupy the applicable Property, and (4) with an agreed amount endorsement waiving co-insurance provisions; (v) workers' compensation, subject to the statutory limits of the state in which the applicable Property is located, and employer's liability insurance with a limit of at least One Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($100,000) per accident and per disease per employee, and Five Hundred Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($500,000) aggregate in respect of any work or operations on or about the Property, or in connection with the applicable Property or its operation (if applicable); (vi) broad form boiler and machinery insurance (without exclusion for explosion) covering all boilers or other pressure vessels, machinery, and equipment located in, on or about any Property (including "system breakdown coverage") in an amount equal to or greater than the repair and full replacement cost of such equipment and insurance against loss of occupancy or use arising from any breakdown of such equipment in such amounts as are generally required by institutional lenders for properties comparable to the Properties; (vii) umbrella liability insurance in addition to primary coverage in an aggregate amount not less than Nine Million and No/100 Dollars ($9,000,000) on terms consistent with the commercial general liability insurance policy required under subsection (ii) above that cover all claims typically covered by an umbrella liability policy including all legal liability imposed upon any Guarantor or Subsidiary of a Guarantor and all court costs and attorneys' fees connection with the ownership, operation and maintenance of the Properties; (viii) motor vehicle liability coverage for all owned and non-owned vehicles, including rented and leased vehicles containing minimum limits per occurrence, including umbrella coverage, of One Million and No/100 Dollars ($1,000,000); (ix) if alcoholic beverages are sold at the applicable Property, so-called "dramshop" insurance or other liability insurance required in connection with the sale of alcoholic beverages; (x) insurance against employee dishonesty in an amount not less than $100,000 and with a deductible not greater than Ten Thousand and No/100 Dollars ($10,000); (xi) if the insurance required under clause (i) above excludes coverage for acts of terrorism, each Guarantor shall provide, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to provide, terrorism insurance coverage in an amount equal to the lesser of (1) the "Full Replacement Cost" (defined above) but, in the case of the Properties which are part of the Mortgage Loan or Mezzanine Loan transactions, no less than the Loan Amount (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement and the Mezzanine Loan 32
Agreement) or (2) the maximum amount of such insurance which is commercially reasonably available, unless at the time of determination: (i) it is not available at commercially reasonable rates; (ii) no Affiliates of any Guarantor or Subsidiary of a Guarantor are maintaining terrorism insurance with respect to another property; (iii) terrorism insurance is not commonly maintained by owners of other similar properties and (iv) terrorism insurance is not required for securitized loans similar to the Mortgage Loan or Mezzanine Loan and secured by property similar to the Properties and with similar ratings as the Mortgage Loan or Mezzanine Loan in the commercial mortgage-backed securities market; and (xii) such other reasonable insurance and in such reasonable amounts as Lender from time to time may reasonably request against such other insurable hazards or casualties which at the time are commonly insured against for property similar to the Properties located in or around the region in which the Properties are located including, without limitation, sinkhole, mine subsidence and environmental insurance, due regard being given to the height and type of property, construction, location, use and occupancy. (B) All insurance provided for in Section 5.1(a)(A) shall be obtained under valid and enforceable policies (collectively, the "Policies" or in the singular, the "Policy") and, to the extent not specified above, shall be subject to the approval of Lender as to deductibles, loss payees and insureds. Not less than ten (10) days prior to the expiration dates of the Policies theretofore furnished to Lender, certificates of insurance evidencing the Policies accompanied by evidence satisfactory to Lender of payment of the premiums then due thereunder (the "Insurance Premiums"), shall be delivered by Borrowers to Lender. Borrowers shall deliver certified copies of the Policies to Lender within thirty (30) days of the Closing Date and thereafter upon request. All Policies must have a term of not less than one (1) year. (C) Intentionally deleted. (D) As to the Properties in the Mortgage Loan, Mezzanine Loan and Sale/Leaseback Transaction, all Policies of insurance provided for or contemplated by Section 5.1(a)(A), except for the Policy referenced in Section 5.1(a)(A)(v), shall name each applicable Guarantor or Subsidiary of a Guarantor or, as to the Properties in the Sale/Leaseback Transaction, the Lender as the insured and, for the Properties in the Mortgage Loan or Mezzanine Loan transactions, Lender and its successors and/or assigns as the additional insured, as its interests may appear, and in the case of property damage, terrorism insurance, boiler and machinery, flood and earthquake insurance for the Properties in the Mortgage Loan or Mezzanine Loan transactions, shall contain a so-called New York standard non-contributing mortgagee clause in favor of Lender providing that the loss thereunder shall be payable to Lender. (E) All Policies of insurance provided for in Section 5.1(a)(A) shall contain clauses or endorsements to the effect that: (i) no act or negligence of any Guarantor or Subsidiary of a Guarantor, or anyone acting for any Guarantor or Subsidiary of a Guarantor, or of any tenant or other occupant, or failure to comply with the provisions of any Policy, which 33
might otherwise result in a forfeiture of the insurance or any part thereof, shall in any way affect the validity or enforceability of the insurance insofar as Lender is concerned; (ii) the Policy shall not be materially changed (other than to increase the coverage provided thereby) or canceled without at least thirty (30) days' written notice to Lender and any other party named therein as an additional insured; (iii) Lender shall not be liable for any Insurance Premiums thereon or subject to any assessments thereunder; and (iv) to the extent available at commercially reasonable rates, a waiver of subrogation rights as to Lender. (F) If at any time Lender is not in receipt of written evidence that all insurance required hereunder is in full force and effect, Lender shall have the right, without notice to any Guarantor or Subsidiary of a Guarantor, to take such action as Lender deems necessary to protect its interest in the Properties, including, without limitation, the obtaining of such insurance coverage as Lender in its sole discretion deems appropriate and all premiums incurred by Lender in connection with such action or in obtaining such insurance and keeping it in effect shall be paid by any Guarantor or Subsidiary of a Guarantor to Lender upon demand and until paid shall be secured by the Pledge Agreement and shall bear interest at the Default Rate (as defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement). (G) In the event of foreclosure of any Mortgage or other transfer of title to any Property securing the Mortgage Loan or Mezzanine Loan in extinguishment in whole or in part of the Debt (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement and the Mezzanine Loan Agreement), all right, title and interest the applicable Guarantor or Subsidiary of a Guarantor in and to the Policies that are not blanket Policies then in force concerning such Properties and all proceeds payable thereunder shall thereupon vest in the purchaser at such foreclosure or Lender or other transferee in the event of such other transfer of title. (b) Insurance Company. The Policies shall be issued by one or more domestic primary insurance companies, duly qualified in the jurisdiction where the Properties are located and rated A: VII or better by A.M. Best and having a claims-paying ability of at least "AA" or its equivalent by each of the Rating Agencies (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement), or by a syndicate of insurers through which at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the coverage (if there are four (4) or fewer members of the syndicate) or at least sixty percent (60%) of the coverage (if there are five (5) or more members of the syndicate) is with carriers having such claims-paying ability ratings (provided that all such carriers shall have claims-paying ability ratings of not less than "A" or the equivalent by each of the Rating Agencies). (c) Additional Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, as to the Mortgage Borrowers, Mezzanine Borrowers and the Trans Lessees, the foregoing requirements shall be modified to the extent set forth in those certain side letters by and among the Mortgage Borrowers, Mezzanine Borrowers, the Trans Lessees, the Guarantors and the Lender dated as of the date hereof. 34
Section 5.5 Books and Records; Inspection. Each Guarantor shall, and shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries to, keep and maintain or will cause to be kept and maintained proper and accurate books and records, in accordance with GAAP in all material respects, reflecting the financial affairs of each Guarantor and Subsidiary of each Guarantor. The Lender shall have the right from time to time during normal business hours upon reasonable notice to the applicable Guarantor or Subsidiary of such Guarantor to examine such books and records at the office of such Guarantor or Subsidiary of such Guarantor or other Person maintaining such books and records and to make such copies or extracts thereof as the Lender shall desire. Section 5.6 Observance of Agreements. Each Guarantor shall, and shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries to: (a) duly observe and perform all material terms and conditions of (i) any agreement relating to any Property or (ii) any other agreement, in either case the absence of which agreement is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (subject in each case, to the right of any Guarantor or any Subsidiary of any Guarantor to lawfully assert a defense to performance or to lawfully contest any claims for breach under any such agreement), and diligently protect and enforce the rights of any Guarantor or any Subsidiary of any Guarantor under all such agreements in a manner consistent with prudent business judgment and subject to the terms and conditions of such agreements. (b) promptly provide the Lender copies of any and all agreements amending, altering, modifying, waiving or supplementing in any material respect, any material agreement relating to any Property or any other agreement the absence of which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.7 Taxes and Other Charges. Each Guarantor shall, and shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries to, pay all Taxes and Other Charges and payroll taxes now or hereafter levied or assessed or imposed against the Properties or any part thereof or any Guarantor or any Subsidiary of any Guarantor as the same become due and payable. Each Guarantor shall, and shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries to, furnish to Lender receipts for the payment of the Taxes and the Other Charges prior to the date the same shall become delinquent. Each Guarantor shall not, and shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries to not, permit or suffer and shall promptly discharge any liens or charges against the Properties, except Permitted Encumbrances. After prior notice to Lender, each Guarantor or Subsidiary of any Guarantor, at its own expense, may contest by appropriate legal proceeding, conducted in good faith and with due diligence, the amount or validity of any Taxes or Other Charges, provided that (i) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and remains uncured; (ii) such proceeding shall be permitted under and be conducted in accordance with all applicable statutes, laws and ordinances; (iii) none of the Properties nor any part thereof or interest therein will be in danger of being sold, forfeited, terminated, canceled or lost; (iv) such Guarantor or Subsidiary of such Guarantor shall promptly upon final determination thereof pay the amount of any such Taxes or Other Charges, together with all costs, interest and penalties which may be payable in connection therewith; (v) such proceeding shall suspend the collection of Taxes or Other Charges from the applicable Property; and (vi) upon request of Lender, such Guarantor or Subsidiary or any 35
Guarantor shall deposit with Lender cash, or other security as may be approved by Lender, in an amount equal to one hundred twenty-five percent (125%) of the contested amount, to insure the payment of any such Taxes or Other Charges, together with all interest and penalties thereon. Lender may pay over any such cash or other security held by Lender to the claimant entitled thereto at any time when, in the judgment of Lender, the entitlement of such claimant is established. Section 5.8 Compliance with Law, Etc. Each Guarantor will comply, and shall cause each of its respective Subsidiaries to comply, in all material respects with all Applicable Laws, except where (i) the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by appropriate measures or proceedings, in which case adequate and reasonable reserves will be established in accordance with GAAP applied on a consistent basis and notice of each such contest (other than contests in the ordinary course of business) shall be given to the Lender, or (ii) failures to comply therewith could not, in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.9 Maintenance of Existence, Rights, Etc. Each Guarantor will preserve, renew and keep, and shall cause each of its Subsidiaries to preserve, renew and keep, in full force and effect its respective existence and its rights, privileges, license and franchises necessary or desirable in the normal conduct of business; provided that nothing in this Section shall prohibit (a) any merger or consolidation permitted by Section 7.4, (b) the termination of the existence of any Subsidiary (other than any Guarantor, Mortgage Borrower, Mezzanine Borrower or Trans Lessee) if (i) such Guarantor determines that such termination is in its best interest and (ii) such termination is not adverse in any material respect to the Lender, or (c) the loss of any rights, privileges, licenses and franchises if the loss thereof, in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. Section 5.10 Guarantees by Future Subsidiaries. Each Guarantor will not, nor will any of them permit any of their respective Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, establish or create or acquire any interest in any Subsidiary; provided, however, that a Guarantor may establish or create a wholly-owned subsidiary provided that at least 30 days prior written notice thereof is given to Lender. Within 10 business days after (a) any Person becomes a Subsidiary of a Guarantor or any of its respective Subsidiaries or (b) the Non-Guarantor Restrictions have terminated, Guarantor shall (i) cause such Subsidiary or Non-Guarantor Subsidiary, as the case may be, to guarantee the Guaranteed Obligations pursuant to a joinder to this Guaranty, (ii) cause the Equity Interests in such Subsidiary or Non-Guarantor Subsidiary, as the case may be, to be pledged to Lender pursuant to the Pledge Agreement and (iii) deliver to the Lender such legal opinions or other documents as the Lender may reasonably request relating to the existence of such Subsidiary or Non-Guarantor Subsidiary, as the case may be, the corporate or other authority for and validity of the joinder to this Guaranty, the pledge of such equity interest and any other matters relevant thereto, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lender. Upon execution and delivery of such joinder to this Guaranty, such Subsidiary or Non-Guarantor Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall thereafter be a "Guarantor" pursuant to this Guaranty. Section 5.11 Environmental Matters. From time to time after the Closing Date, each Guarantor will review the effect of Environmental Laws on the business, operations and properties of any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower, any Trans Lessee, each 36
Guarantor and each of their respective Subsidiaries, in the course of which reviews it will identify and evaluate associated liabilities and costs. If, on the basis of such reviews, a Guarantor reasonably concludes that the foregoing associated liabilities and costs are likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, Guarantor shall promptly deliver a certificate to the Lender setting forth its conclusion and the action that Guarantor proposes to take with respect thereto. Section 5.12 Distributions from Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries. Each Guarantor shall cause each of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries to make not less than weekly distributions of available cash to Parent, the amount of which shall be determined using the same accounting and other methods, policies, practices and procedures and the same judgments as such Guarantor or Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries has used in making such distribution to Parent on an historical basis and in no event shall such distribution be substantially less in amount than the distributions made to Parent on an historical basis. Section 5.13 Ownership by Parent of Certain Equity Interests. Except to the extent the terms of Section 7.4 hereof, Parent shall continue to own directly or indirectly 100% of the outstanding Equity Interests of each Mortgage Borrower, each Mezzanine Borrower, each Trans Lessee and each Guarantor. Section 5.14 Further Assurances. Each Guarantor will make, execute, acknowledge and deliver all and every such further acts and assurances as the Lender shall from time to time require for confirming or carrying out the intentions or facilitating the performance of the terms of this Guaranty, including but not limited to, the execution and delivery of a separate guaranty of the Guaranteed Obligations as they relate to each of the Mortgage Loan, Mezzanine Loan and Sale/Leaseback Transaction. Each Guarantor shall, at such Guarantor's sole cost and expense, from time to time as reasonably requested by Lender, execute, acknowledge, record, register, file and/or deliver to the Lender such other instruments, agreements, certificates and documents (including UCC financing statements and amended or replacement mortgages) as Lender may reasonably request to evidence, confirm, perfect and maintain the liens securing or intended to secure the obligations of any Guarantor under the Loan Documents or Lease Documents if requested by Lender, and do and execute all such further lawful and reasonable acts, conveyances and assurances for the better and more effective carrying out of the intents and purposes of this Guaranty, the other Loan Documents and the Lease Documents as the Lender shall reasonably require from time to time. Each Guarantor hereby authorizes and appoints the Lender as its attorney-in-fact to execute, acknowledge, record, register and/or file such instruments, agreements, certificates and documents, and to do and execute such acts, conveyances and assurances, should any Guarantor fail to do so itself in violation of this Guaranty following written request from the Lender, in each case without the signature of any Guarantor. The foregoing grant of authority is a power of attorney coupled with an interest and such appointment shall be irrevocable for the term of this Guaranty. Each Guarantor hereby ratifies all actions that such attorney shall lawfully take or cause to be taken in accordance with this Section. ARTICLE VI - FINANCIAL COVENANTS Parent covenants and agrees with the Lender that, except in the case of a Covenant Replacement Event, so long as (i) the Mortgage Loan or the Mezzanine Loan or any additional 37
credit is outstanding and until payment in full of all amounts payable by any Mortgage Borrower pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Mortgage Loan Agreement and all amounts payable by any Mezzanine Borrower pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement (other than the covenants that survive payment in full) or (ii) the Sale/Leaseback Transaction is outstanding and until payment in full of all amounts payable by any Trans Lessee pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Sale/Leaseback Transaction (other than the covenants that survive payment in full): Section 6.1 Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio. (a) At each Quarterly Measurement Date on or after the date hereof, the Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio will not be less than the ratio set forth below opposite such Quarterly Measurement Date (or any Quarterly Measurement Date which falls during the periods set forth below): - -------------------------------------------------- Period Ratio - -------------------------------------------------- Closing Date through December 31, 2003 1.6:1 - -------------------------------------------------- January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004 1.65:1 - -------------------------------------------------- January 1, 2005 and thereafter 1.7:1 - -------------------------------------------------- (b) For purposes of calculating the foregoing ratio, Asset Dispositions or Acquisitions which have occurred during such period shall be included on a Pro Forma Basis. Section 6.2 Consolidated Adjusted Leverage Ratio. At each Quarterly Measurement Date on or after the date hereof, the Consolidated Adjusted Leverage Ratio will not exceed the ratio set forth below opposite such Quarterly Measurement Date (or any Quarterly Measurement Date which falls during the periods set forth below): - -------------------------------------------------- Period Ratio - -------------------------------------------------- Closing Date through December 31, 2003 5.0:1 - -------------------------------------------------- January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2004 4.9:1 - -------------------------------------------------- January 1, 2005 and thereafter 4.8:1 - -------------------------------------------------- (b) For purposes of calculating the foregoing ratio, Asset Dispositions or Acquisitions which have occurred during such period shall be included on a Pro Forma Basis. Section 6.3 Minimum Consolidated Net Worth. The Consolidated Net Worth of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries will not be less than $40,000,000 for each Fiscal Quarter ending in Fiscal Years 2002 and 2003, $53,000,000 for each Fiscal Quarter in Fiscal Year 2004 and $68,000,000 for each Fiscal Quarter in Fiscal Year 2005 and thereafter, in each case plus (a) the amount of any gain associated with the Sale/Leaseback Transaction plus (b) 90% of any proceeds (without duplication) received by Parent or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries pursuant to the issuance of any equity securities of such entities. Section 6.4 Capital Expenditures. Capital Expenditures must be a minimum amount of $300 per bed per annum for all Properties owned or operated by the Trans Entities which are collateral for the Mortgage Loan, the Mezzanine Loan or are the subject of the Sale/Leaseback Transaction. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a minimum capital expenditure of $500 per bed per annum is required for any such property that is a hospital. 38
ARTICLE VII - NEGATIVE COVENANTS From the date hereof and, except in the case of a Covenant Replacement Event, for so long as (i) the Mortgage Loan or the Mezzanine Loan or any additional credit is outstanding and until payment in full of all amounts payable by any Mortgage Borrower pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Mortgage Loan Agreement and all amounts payable by any Mezzanine Borrower pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement (other than the covenants that survive payment in full) or (ii) the Sale/Leaseback Transaction is outstanding and until payment in full of all amounts payable by any Trans Lessee pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Sale/Leaseback Transaction (other than the covenants that survive payment in full), each Guarantor agrees that, unless the Lender shall otherwise consent in writing, it will not and will not allow any of its Subsidiaries to: Section 7.1 Limitation on Debt. (a) Incur any Debt, other than Permitted Debt, if immediately after giving effect to the incurrence of such additional Debt and the application of the proceeds thereof, the aggregate principal amount of all of Parent's and its Consolidated Subsidiaries' outstanding Debt on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP would be greater than 65% of Total Consolidated Assets of Parent and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as of the end of the most recent Quarterly Measurement Date prior to the incurrence of such additional Debt; (b) Incur any Debt which would be reasonably likely to result in a breach of any covenant contained herein or in any Loan Document or Lease Document at the next Quarterly Measurement Date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Guarantor will not, and will not allow any of its Subsidiaries to, guaranty the obligations of any Person who is not a Guarantor, except with respect to the Mezzanine Loan, the Mortgage Loan or the Sale/Leaseback Transaction; provided that Parent may provide a guaranty of up to $5,000,000 of accounts receivable financing for THI Columbus, Inc. and a guaranty of up to $3,000,000 of accounts receivable financing for THI of Cleveland, Inc. Section 7.2 Limitations on Liens. Incur, create, assume or suffer to exist: (a) any Lien on any Property, except: (i) existing Liens listed on Schedule 7.2 hereto; (ii) Liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or levies due and payable, (A) the validity or amount of which is currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or (B) as to which Parent or any Loan Party is subject to certain enforcement restrictions contained in the applicable leases and subleases and is exercising its applicable lease and sublease rights in a commercially reasonable and diligent manner and, in each case, for which reserves have been set aside on the books of Parent or the applicable Loan Party and as to which foreclosure and other enforcement proceedings shall not have been commenced (unless fully bonded or 39
otherwise effectively stayed), in each case pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of Section 5.7 of this Guaranty; (iii) Liens arising out of attachments, judgments or awards (A) as to which an appeal or other appropriate proceedings for contest or review are timely commenced (and as to which foreclosure and other enforcement proceedings shall not have been commenced (unless fully bonded or otherwise effectively stayed)) or (B) as to which Parent or any Loan Party is subject to certain enforcement restrictions contained in the applicable leases and subleases and is exercising its applicable lease and sublease rights in a commercially reasonable and diligent manner (and as to which foreclosure and other enforcement proceedings shall not have been commenced (unless fully bonded or otherwise effectively stayed)) and, in each case, as to which appropriate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP to the extent any such reserves are required by GAAP; (iv) deposits under worker's compensation, unemployment insurance and social security and similar laws or to secure statutory obligations or surety, appeal, performance, completion or other similar bonds, to secure performance as lessee under leases of real or personal property or to secure performance of tenders, bids, contracts (other than for the repayment of Indebtedness) and other obligations of a like nature, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business; (v) Liens customarily granted or incurred in the ordinary course of business with regard to services rendered by carriers, warehouses, suppliers of materials and equipment, mechanics and repairmen and other Liens imposed by Applicable Law which Liens are contemplated by Section 11.1 of the Master Leases, (or a successor provision) or any other comparable provision in any other lease with respect to a Property and do not secure obligations which are due and payable (unless such obligations are being contested in good faith and with respect to which appropriate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP to the extent any such reserves are required by GAAP); (vi) the Liens of the Lender under this Guaranty, the other Loan Documents and Lease Documents and any other document contemplated hereby or thereby; (vii) easements (including, without limitation, reciprocal easement agreements and utility agreements), rights of way, Requirements, restrictions (including, without limitation, zoning restrictions), covenants, consents, reservations, encroachments, variations and other similar restrictions, charges, encumbrances (whether or not recorded) (but specifically excluding rights of first refusal, options and other contractual rights to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of any Property or any interest therein) on any Property which, in the aggregate, (A) do not materially detract from the value of the applicable Property subject thereto, (B) do not materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Loan Parties or any lessee under a lease, or (iii) do not materially impair the use of the applicable Property by Parent or any Loan Party or any lessee under a lease; 40
(viii) Liens arising by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set off or similar rights with respect to deposit accounts; (ix) Rights of first refusal, options or other contractual rights to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of any Property or interest therein which right of first refusal, option or contractual right (A) is described on Schedule 7.2 hereto, (B) has been consented to in writing by the Lender in the exercise of its reasonable discretion, (C) is in connection with a sale of assets or Equity Interests permitted by Section 7.4 hereof, or (D) has been granted after the Closing Date and which when taken with all other rights of first refusal, options and other contractual rights permitted by this clause (D), do not, in any fiscal year, affect Properties having an aggregate fair market value exceeding $10,000,000.00; and (x) Liens set forth on the Title Policies and accepted by the Lender as of the Closing Date; (b) Liens on any of its other properties or assets to secure Debt other than (i) loans and obligations under this Guaranty or (ii) any additional Debt permitted by Section 7.1 of this Guaranty. Section 7.3 Restricted Payments. (a) Declare or pay any dividend or make any other payment or distribution on account of any Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries' Equity Interests (including, without limitation, any payment in connection with any merger or consolidation involving any Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries) or to the direct or indirect holders of any Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries' Equity Interests in their capacity as such (a "Dividend Payment"); except that the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries may make the distributions set forth in Section 5.12 hereof and except that, so long as no Event of Default has occurred, (i) any Guarantor may declare or make a Dividend Payment to another Guarantor; (ii) Parent may pay customary and ordinary operating expenses of the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries so long as any such advances by Parent to the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries made after the date hereof at any time outstanding do not exceed $2,000,000 in the aggregate after taking into account any distributions made by the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries to Parent in accordance with Section 5.12, and the payment of any operating expenses in excess of such amount shall be subject to the Lender's prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; (iii) Parent may pay management fees or compensation to GTCR in an amount not to exceed $150,000 per year in the aggregate; 41
(iv) the Guarantors may declare or make Dividend Payments in addition to those permitted hereunder in an amount not to exceed $500,000 per year in the aggregate or the amount of $1,000,000 in the aggregate; (b) Purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value (including, without limitation, in connection with any merger or consolidation involving any Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries) any Equity Interests of such Guarantor or Subsidiary of such Guarantor or any direct or indirect parent of such Guarantor or Subsidiary of such Guarantor; or (c) Make any payment on or with respect to, purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire for value any Subordinated Debt, except if and to the extent such payment is permitted to be made pursuant to the applicable intercreditor agreement between Lender and GTCR on Subordinated Debt incurred by Parent in favor of GTCR which is Permitted Debt and the refinancing of Subordinated Debt incurred by Parent in favor of GTCR so long as no Event of Default has occurred and so long as such refinancing is on terms and conditions acceptable to the Lender in its sole discretion including, without limitation, that such refinanced Subordinated Debt shall remain subject and subordinate in right of payment to the right of the Lender to receive the prior indefeasible payment and satisfaction in full payment of all Guaranteed Obligations pursuant to the terms of an intercreditor agreement between Lender and GTCR, in form and substance satisfactory to the Lender. Section 7.4 Consolidations, Mergers and Asset Sales. Consolidate or merge with or into, or sell, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to any other Person, except that (i) a Guarantor or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Parent, any Mortgage Borrower, any Mezzanine Borrower or any Trans Lessee) may merge with any Person if such Guarantor or such Consolidated Subsidiary or another Guarantor or Consolidated Subsidiary is the surviving corporation and, immediately after such merger (and giving effect thereto), no Default shall have occurred or be continuing and (ii) a Service Guarantor may dispose of all or substantially all of its assets and Parent may dispose of all or substantially all of its Equity Interests in any Service Guarantor if (x) such entity receives consideration at the time of such sale at least equal to the fair market value (evidenced by a resolution of its respective Board of Directors set forth in an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Lender) of the assets or Equity Interests sold or otherwise disposed of, (y) 100% of the consideration received therefor is in the form of cash and (z) all proceeds of such disposition shall be immediately applied to repay the Guaranteed Obligations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Service Guarantor shall be released in its capacity as such from this Guaranty and Lender shall not have any obligation to release such Service Guarantor from this Guaranty until the Lender receives satisfactory evidence (including copies of executed transaction documents) that (1) such sale or disposition was consummated in accordance with transaction documents approved in writing in advance by Lender and (2) the Lender received net proceeds from such sale or disposition in the amount contemplated by such transaction documents. Section 7.5 Change in Control. Except to the extent the terms of Sections 2.4.2(b) or 8.2(b)(as applicable), and 24.2 of the Mortgage Loan Agreement, the Mezzanine Loan Agreement and the Master Lease respectively are satisfied, permit a Change in 42
Control or change in the identity of the person holding the title of President and Chief Executive Officer of Parent; provided, however, that Parent may change its President or Chief Executive Officer upon not less than ninety (90) days' prior written notice to Lender of the designation of a successor that is acceptable to the Lender in its sole discretion. Section 7.6 Limitations on Transactions with Affiliates. Other than as set forth in Section 7.3, pay any funds to or for the account of, make any Investment in, lease, sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of any assets tangible or intangible, to, or participate in, or effect any transaction in connection with any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement with, any Affiliate; provided that the foregoing shall not prohibit: (a) Each Guarantor from performing its obligations under any agreements with Affiliates in existence as of the date hereof; (b) Each Guarantor or any of their respective Subsidiaries from making sales or leases to purchase or leases from any Affiliate and, in connection therewith, extending credit or making payments, or from making payments for services rendered by any Affiliate, if such sales, leases or purchases are made or such services are rendered in the ordinary course of business and on terms and conditions at least as favorable to such Guarantor or its respective Subsidiary as the terms and conditions which would apply in a similar transaction with a Person not an affiliate. Section 7.7 No Change in Fiscal Periods. Change the date on which any of its Fiscal Years or Fiscal Quarters ends, unless the Lender shall have consented to such change (which consent may be conditioned on the amendment of any covenant herein that would be affected by such change to eliminate the effect thereof). Section 7.8 Limitation on Business. Engage in any business, other than the business of owning or managing Healthcare Facilities and any business specifically incidental thereto and, specifically with respect to Parent, engage in any activities other than owning the Equity Interests set forth in Section 5.13 and other Subsidiaries that own, operate or manage Healthcare Facilities, and financing activities and other activities reasonably related to such ownership. Section 7.9 Hazardous Substances. Subject to any restrictions contained in the applicable lease documents to which Parent or a Loan Party is a party, (a) cause or permit any of its properties or assets to be used to generate, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, produce or process Hazardous Substances, except in compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws; nor (b) release, discharge, dispose of or permit or suffer any release or disposal as a result of any intentional act or omission on its part of Hazardous Substances onto any such property or asset in violation of any Environmental Law or in a manner that could result in liability under any Environmental Law, except in the case of (a) and (b) as are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. 43
ARTICLE VIII - SUBORDINATION OF CERTAIN INDEBTEDNESS Section 8.1 Subordination of All Guarantor Claims. As used herein, the term "Guarantor Claims" shall mean all debts and liabilities of any Obligor to any Guarantor, whether such debts and liabilities now exist or are hereafter incurred or arise, or whether the obligations of such Obligor thereon be direct, contingent, primary, secondary, several, joint and several, or otherwise, and irrespective of whether such debts or liabilities be evidenced by note, contract, open account, or otherwise, and irrespective of the Person or Persons in whose favor such debts or liabilities may, at their inception, have been, or may hereafter be created, or the manner in which they have been or may hereafter be acquired by any Guarantor. The Guarantor Claims shall include without limitation all rights and claims of any Guarantor against any Obligor (arising as a result of subrogation or otherwise) as a result of any Guarantor's payment of all or a portion of the Guaranteed Obligations. After the occurrence and during the continuance of a Default or the occurrence and during the continuance of an event which would, with the giving of notice or the passage of time, or both, constitute a Default, each Guarantor shall not receive or collect, directly or indirectly, from any Obligor or any other party any amount upon the Guarantor Claims. Section 8.2 Claims in Bankruptcy. In the event of receivership, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, debtor's relief, or other insolvency proceedings involving any Guarantor as debtor, Lender shall have the right to prove its claim in any such proceeding so as to establish its rights hereunder and receive directly from the receiver, trustee or other court custodian dividends and payments which would otherwise be payable upon Guarantor Claims. Each Guarantor hereby assigns such dividends and payments to Lender. Should Lender receive, for application against the Guaranteed Obligations, any dividend or payment which is otherwise payable to any Guarantor and which, as between any Obligor and such Guarantor, shall constitute a credit against the Guarantor Claims, then, upon payment to Lender in full of the Guaranteed Obligations, such Guarantor shall become subrogated to the rights of Lender to the extent that such payments to Lender on the Guarantor Claims have contributed toward the liquidation of the Guaranteed Obligations, and such subrogation shall be with respect to that proportion of the Guaranteed Obligations which would have been unpaid if Lender had not received dividends or payments upon the Guarantor Claims. Section 8.3 Payments Held in Trust. In the event that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Guaranty, any Guarantor should receive any funds, payment, claim or distribution which is prohibited by this Guaranty, such Guarantor agrees to hold in trust for Lender an amount equal to the amount of all funds, payments, claims or distributions so received, and agrees that it shall have absolutely no dominion over the amount of such funds, payments, claims or distributions so received except to pay them promptly to Lender, and such Guarantor covenants promptly to pay the same to Lender. Section 8.4 Liens Subordinate. Each Guarantor agrees that any liens, security interests, judgment liens, charges or other encumbrances upon any Obligor's assets securing payment of the Guarantor Claims shall be and remain inferior and subordinate to any liens, security interests, judgment liens, charges or other encumbrances upon such Obligor's assets securing payment of the Guaranteed Obligations, regardless of whether such encumbrances in favor of such Guarantor or Lender presently exist or are hereafter created or 44
attach. Without the prior written consent of Lender, no Guarantor shall (i) exercise or enforce any creditor's right it may have against any Obligor, or (ii) foreclose, repossess, sequester or otherwise take steps or institute any action or proceedings (judicial or otherwise, including without limitation the commencement of, or joinder in, any liquidation, bankruptcy, rearrangement, debtor's relief or insolvency proceeding) to enforce any liens, mortgage, deeds of trust, security interests, collateral rights, judgments or other encumbrances on assets of any Obligor held by such Guarantor. ARTICLE IX - REMEDIES Section 9.1 Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Default, the Lender may, in addition to the remedies provided in the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents or Lease Documents, enforce its rights either by suit or in equity, or by action at law, or by appropriate proceedings, whether for specific performance (to the extent permitted by law) of any covenant or agreement contained in this Guaranty or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Guaranty and may enforce payment under this Guaranty and any of its other rights available at law or in equity. Section 9.2 Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of any Default, the Lender is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, without notice to any Guarantor (any requirement for such notice being expressly waived by each Guarantor) to set off and apply against any and all of the obligations of each Guarantor now or hereafter existing under this Guaranty any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other indebtedness at any time owing by the Lender to or for the credit or the account of each Guarantor and any property of each Guarantor from time to time in possession of the Lenders, irrespective of whether or not the Lender shall have made any demand hereunder and although such obligations may be contingent and unmatured. The rights of the Lender under this Section 9.2 are in addition to other rights and remedies (including, without limitation, other rights of setoff) which the Lender may have. Section 9.3 To the extent that it lawfully may, each Guarantor agrees that it will not at any time insist upon or plead, or in any manner whatever claim or take any benefit or advantage of any applicable present or future stay, extension or moratorium law, which may affect observance or performance of the provisions of this Guaranty, or any of the Loan Documents nor will it claim, take or insist upon any benefit or advantage of any present or future law providing for the evaluation or appraisal of any security for its obligations hereunder or the obligations of any Obligor under the Loan Documents or the Lease Documents prior to any sale or sales thereof which may be made under or by virtue of any instrument governing the same. ARTICLE X - MISCELLANEOUS Section 10.1 Successors and Assigns. All covenants, promises and agreements in this Guaranty, by or on behalf of any Guarantor, shall inure to the benefit of the legal representatives, successors and assigns of Lender. 45
Section 10.2 Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction. (a) THIS AGREEMENT WAS NEGOTIATED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND MADE BY LENDER AND ACCEPTED BY EACH GUARANTOR IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND THE PROCEEDS OF THE MORTGAGE LOAN, MEZZANINE LOAN AND THE SALE/LEASEBACK TRANSACTION WERE DISBURSED FROM THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WHICH STATE THE PARTIES AGREE HAS A SUBSTANTIAL RELATIONSHIP TO THE PARTIES AND TO THE UNDERLYING TRANSACTION EMBODIED HEREBY, AND IN ALL RESPECTS, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, MATTERS OF CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND PERFORMANCE, THIS AGREEMENT AND THE OBLIGATIONS ARISING HEREUNDER SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE (WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT LAWS) AND ANY APPLICABLE LAW OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW, EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY UNCONDITIONALLY AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY CLAIM TO ASSERT THAT THE LAW OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION GOVERNS THIS GUARANTY AND THIS GUARANTY SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1401 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW. (b) ANY LEGAL SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING AGAINST LENDER OR ANY GUARANTOR ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS GUARANTY MAY AT LENDER'S OPTION BE INSTITUTED IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN THE CITY OF NEW YORK, COUNTY OF NEW YORK, PURSUANT TO SECTION 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW AND EACH GUARANTOR WAIVES ANY OBJECTIONS WHICH IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE BASED ON VENUE AND/OR FORUM NON CONVENIENS OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING, AND EACH GUARANTOR HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF ANY SUCH COURT IN ANY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING. EACH GUARANTOR DOES HEREBY DESIGNATE AND APPOINT: CT Corporation System 111 Eighth Avenue New York, New York 10011 AS ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT TO ACCEPT AND ACKNOWLEDGE ON ITS BEHALF SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL PROCESS WHICH MAY BE SERVED IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN ANY FEDERAL OR STATE COURT IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK, AND AGREES THAT SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SAID AGENT AT SAID ADDRESS AND WRITTEN NOTICE OF SAID SERVICE MAILED OR DELIVERED TO ANY GUARANTOR IN THE MANNER PROVIDED HEREIN SHALL BE DEEMED IN EVERY RESPECT 46
EFFECTIVE SERVICE OF PROCESS UPON SUCH GUARANTOR, IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH GUARANTOR (I) SHALL GIVE PROMPT NOTICE TO LENDER OF ANY CHANGED ADDRESS OF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT HEREUNDER, (II) MAY AT ANY TIME AND FROM TIME TO TIME DESIGNATE A SUBSTITUTE AUTHORIZED AGENT WITH AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK (WHICH SUBSTITUTE AGENT AND OFFICE SHALL BE DESIGNATED AS THE PERSON AND ADDRESS FOR SERVICE OF PROCESS), AND (III) SHALL PROMPTLY DESIGNATE SUCH A SUBSTITUTE IF ITS AUTHORIZED AGENT CEASES TO HAVE AN OFFICE IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK OR IS DISSOLVED WITHOUT LEAVING A SUCCESSOR. Section 10.3 Modification; Waiver in Writing. No modification, amendment, extension, discharge, termination or waiver of any provision of this Guaranty, nor consent to any departure by any Guarantor therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in a writing signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance, and for the purpose, for which given. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, no notice to, or demand on any Guarantor, shall entitle such Guarantor to any other or future notice or demand in the same, similar or other circumstances. Section 10.4 Delay Not a Waiver. Neither any failure nor any delay on the part of Lender in insisting upon strict performance of any term, condition, covenant or agreement, or exercising any right, power, remedy or privilege hereunder, or under any other Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Document or Lease Document, shall operate as or constitute a waiver thereof, nor shall a single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other future exercise, or the exercise of any other right, power, remedy or privilege. In particular, and not by way of limitation, by accepting payment after the due date of any amount payable under this Guaranty, any other Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Document or any Lease Document, Lender shall not be deemed to have waived any right either to require prompt payment when due of all other amounts due under this Guaranty, any Mortgage Loan Document, Mezzanine Loan Document or any Lease Document, or to declare a default for failure to effect prompt payment of any such other amount. Section 10.5 Notice. All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals or other communications (any of the foregoing, a "Notice") required, permitted, or desired to be given hereunder shall be in writing sent by telefax (with answer back acknowledged) or by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, or delivered by hand or reputable overnight courier addressed to the party to be so notified at its address hereinafter set forth, or to such other address as such party may hereafter specify in accordance with the provisions of this Section 10.6. Any Notice to any Guarantor shall be deemed effective as to all Guarantors to the extent delivered to one Guarantor and Notice to all Guarantors shall not be required if Notice is given to one Guarantor. Any Notice shall be deemed to have been received: (a) three (3) days after the date such Notice is mailed, (b) on the date of sending by telefax if sent during business hours on a Business Day (otherwise on the next Business Day), (c) on the date of delivery by hand if delivered during business hours on a Business Day (otherwise on the next Business Day), and (d) on the next Business Day if sent by an overnight commercial courier, in 47
each case addressed to the parties as follows: If to Lender: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership c/o Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attention: Chief Financial Officer Facsimile No. (502)-357-9001 with a copy to: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership c/o Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207 Attention: General Counsel Facsimile No. (502)-357-9001 with a copy to: Dechert 4000 Bell Atlantic Tower 1717 Arch Street Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 Attention: David W. Forti Facsimile No. (215) 994-2222 If to Guarantors: c/o Trans Healthcare, Inc. 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103 Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 Attention: Anthony F. Misitano Facsimile No. (717) 730-8722 with a copy to: Latsha Davis & Yohe, P.C. 4720 Old Gettysburg Road, Suite 101 Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17108 Attention: Douglas C. Yohe Facsimile No. (717) 761-2286 Section 10.6 Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury. EACH GUARANTOR AND LENDER EACH HEREBY AGREE NOT TO ELECT A TRIAL BY JURY OF ANY ISSUE TRIABLE OF RIGHT BY JURY, AND WAIVE ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY FULLY TO THE EXTENT THAT ANY SUCH RIGHT SHALL NOW OR HEREAFTER EXIST WITH REGARD TO THIS GUARANTY, ANY MORTGAGE LOAN DOCUMENT, MEZZANINE LOAN DOCUMENT, ANY LEASE DOCUMENT, OR ANY CLAIM, COUNTERCLAIM OR OTHER ACTION ARISING IN CONNECTION THEREWITH. THIS WAIVER OF RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IS GIVEN KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY BY EACH GUARANTOR AND LENDER, AND IS INTENDED TO ENCOMPASS INDIVIDUALLY EACH INSTANCE AND EACH ISSUE AS TO WHICH THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY WOULD OTHERWISE ACCRUE. EACH GUARANTOR AND LENDER ARE EACH 48
HEREBY AUTHORIZED TO FILE A COPY OF THIS PARAGRAPH IN ANY PROCEEDING AS CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE OF THIS WAIVER. Section 10.7 Headings. The Article and/or Section headings in this Guaranty are included herein for convenience of reference only and are not to be construed as defining or limiting the scope or intent of the provisions hereof. Section 10.8 Severability. Wherever possible, each provision of this Guaranty shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Guaranty shall be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Guaranty. Section 10.9 Waiver of Notice. To the extent permitted by applicable law, each Guarantor shall not be entitled to any notices of any nature whatsoever from Lender except with respect to matters for which this Guaranty specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Lender to any Guarantor and except with respect to matters for which any Guarantor is not, pursuant to applicable Legal Requirements, permitted to waive the giving of notice. Each Guarantor hereby expressly waives the right to receive any notice from Lender with respect to any matter for which this Guaranty does not specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Lender to such Guarantor. Section 10.10 Amendments. This Guaranty may be amended only by an instrument in writing executed by the party or an authorized representative of the party against whom such amendment is sought to be enforced. Section 10.11 Number and Gender. All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural as the identity of the person or persons referred to may require. Without limiting the effect of specific references in any provision of this Guaranty, the term "Guarantor" shall be deemed to refer to each and every person comprising a Guarantor from time to time, as the sense of a particular provision may require, and to include the heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors and assigns of Guarantor, all of whom shall be bound by the provisions of this Guaranty, provided that no obligation of Guarantor may be assigned except with the written consent of Lender. Section 10.12 Recitals. The recital and introductory paragraphs hereof are a part hereof, form a basis for this Guaranty and shall be considered prima facie evidence of the facts and documents referred to therein. Section 10.13 Duplicates; Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of duplicate originals and each such duplicate original shall be deemed to be an original. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which counterparts shall be deemed an original instrument and all of which together shall constitute a single Agreement. The failure of any party hereto to execute this Guaranty, or any counterpart hereof, shall not relieve the other signatories from their obligations hereunder.. Section 10.14 Rights and Remedies. If any Guarantor becomes liable for any indebtedness owing by any Obligor to Lender, by endorsement or otherwise, other than under 49
this Guaranty, such liability shall not be in any manner impaired or affected hereby and the rights of Lender hereunder shall be cumulative of any and all other rights that Lender may ever have against Guarantor. The exercise by Lender of any right or remedy hereunder or under any other instrument, or at law or in equity, shall not preclude the concurrent or subsequent exercise of any other right or remedy. Section 10.15 Joint and Several Liability. If more than one Person has executed this Guaranty as "Guarantor," the representations, covenants, warranties and obligations of all such Persons hereunder shall be joint and several. Section 10.16 Entirety. THIS GUARANTY EMBODIES THE FINAL, ENTIRE AGREEMENT OF GUARANTOR AND LENDER WITH RESPECT TO GUARANTOR'S GUARANTY OF THE GUARANTEED OBLIGATIONS AND SUPERSEDES ANY AND ALL PRIOR COMMITMENTS, AGREEMENTS, REPRESENTATIONS, AND UNDERSTANDINGS, WHETHER WRITTEN OR ORAL, RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF. THIS GUARANTY IS INTENDED BY GUARANTOR AND LENDER AS A FINAL AND COMPLETE EXPRESSION OF THE TERMS OF THE GUARANTY, AND NO COURSE OF DEALING BETWEEN GUARANTOR AND LENDER, NO COURSE OF PERFORMANCE, NO TRADE PRACTICES, AND NO EVIDENCE OF PRIOR, CONTEMPORANEOUS OR SUBSEQUENT ORAL AGREEMENTS OR DISCUSSIONS OR OTHER EXTRINSIC EVIDENCE OF ANY NATURE SHALL BE USED TO CONTRADICT, VARY, SUPPLEMENT OR MODIFY ANY TERM OF THIS GUARANTY. THERE ARE NO ORAL AGREEMENTS BETWEEN GUARANTOR AND LENDER. Section 10.17 Cooperation. (a) Each Guarantor acknowledges that Lender and its successors and assigns may (i) sell or otherwise transfer this Guaranty, the Mortgage Note, Mezzanine Note, the Mortgage Loan Documents, the Mezzanine Loan Documents and/or Lease Documents to one or more investors as a whole loan or whole lease, as applicable, (ii) sell participation interests in any of the Mortgage Loan, Mezzanine Loan and/or the Sale/Leaseback Transaction, (iii) securitize the Mortgage Loan, Mezzanine Loan and/or Master Lease in a single asset securitization or a pooled loan securitization, or (iv) otherwise sell any of the Mortgage Loan, Mezzanine Loan and/or the Sale/Leaseback Transaction interest therein to investors (the transactions referred to in clauses (i) through (iv) are hereinafter each referred to as "Secondary Market Transaction" and the transactions referred to in clause (iii) are referred to herein as a "Securitization"). (a) If requested by Lender, each Guarantor shall assist Lender in satisfying the market standards to which Lender customarily adheres or which may be reasonably required in the marketplace or by the Rating Agencies in connection with any Secondary Market Transactions, including, without limitation, to: (i) (A) provide updated financial and other information with respect to the Properties, the business operated at the Properties, the Mortgage Borrowers, Mezzanine Borrowers and the Trans Lessees, (B) provide updated budgets relating to the Properties and (C) provide updated appraisals, market studies, environmental reviews (Phase I's and, if appropriate, Phase II's), property condition reports and other due diligence investigations of the Properties (the "Updated 50
Information"), together, if customary, with appropriate verification of the Updated Information through letters of auditors or opinions of counsel acceptable to Lender and the Rating Agencies; (ii) provide opinions of counsel, which may be relied upon by Lender, the Rating Agencies and their respective counsel, agents and representatives, as to non-consolidation or any other opinion customary in Secondary Market Transactions or required by the Rating Agencies with respect to the Properties and Mortgage Borrowers, Mezzanine Borrowers, Trans Lessees and Affiliates, which counsel and opinions shall be satisfactory to Lender and the Rating Agencies; (iii) provide updated, as of the closing date of the Secondary Market Transaction, representations and warranties made in the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents and Lease Documents and such additional representations and warranties as the Rating Agencies may require; and (iv) execute amendments to the Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Documents or Lease Documents and the organizational documents of the Mortgage Borrowers, Mezzanine Borrowers or Trans Lessees reasonably requested by Lender; provided, however, that Mortgage Borrowers, Mezzanine Borrower and Trans Lessees shall not be required to modify or amend any Mortgage Loan Documents, Mezzanine Loan Document or Lease Document if such modification or amendment would (A) change the interest rate, the stated maturity or the amortization of principal as set forth herein or in the Mortgage Note or the Mezzanine Note or the termination date of or payments of rent under the Master Lease, or (B) modify or amend any other material economic term of the Mortgage Loan, Mezzanine Loan or Sale/Leaseback Transaction. [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE] 51
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each Guarantor has caused this Guaranty to be duly executed all as of the day and year first above written. GUARANTOR: TRANS HEALTHCARE, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President TRANS HEALTHCARE OF OHIO, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI OF OHIO ALFS, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI PROPERTIES, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI SERVICES CORP., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President
THI SPECIALTY HOSPITALS OF OHIO, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President TRANS HEALTH MANAGEMENT, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI OF MARYLAND, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President PHYSICAL THERAPY PLUS, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President DALE J. CORDIAL, PT, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President
DALE J. CORDIAL, PT, INC., NUMBER 4, a Pennsylvania corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO -------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THE PT GROUP OF PENN HILLS, a Pennsylvania general partnership By: Trans Healthcare, Inc., a Delaware corporation, its Partner By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ---------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THE PT GROUP PHYSICAL THERAPY FOR WOMEN, a Pennsylvania general partnership By: Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation, its Partner By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ---------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THE PT GROUP OF MOON TOWNSHIP, a Pennsylvania general partnership By: Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc., Number 4, a Pennsylvania corporation, its Partner By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ---------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President
THI Therapy Concepts, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL -------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI SERVICES OF MARYLAND, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL -------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President

EXHIBIT 10.3.4 GUARANTOR PLEDGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT THIS GUARANTOR PLEDGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT, dated as of November 1, 2002 (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Security Agreement"), is made by TRANS HEALTHCARE, INC. ("Parent") and THOSE SUBSIDIARIES OF PARENT LISTED AS A "PLEDGOR" ON SCHEDULE V attached hereto, each having an address at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 (each a "Pledgor" and collectively, the "Pledgors"), in favor of VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (together with its successors and assigns, "Secured Party"). RECITALS A. WHEREAS, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, in its capacity as the mortgage lender, is making a first-priority mortgage loan (the "Mortgage Loan") to those entities listed as a "Mortgage Borrower" on Schedule I attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company (each a "Mortgage Borrower" and collectively the "Mortgage Borrowers") in the maximum principal amount of $55,000,000; B. WHEREAS, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, in its capacity as the mezzanine lender, is making a mezzanine loan (the "Mezzanine Loan") to those entities listed as a "Mezzanine Borrower" on Schedule II attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company (each a "Mezzanine Borrower" and collectively the "Mezzanine Borrowers") in the maximum principal amount of $22,000,000; C. WHEREAS, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, in its capacity as the purchaser under that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement of even date herewith and as the lessor under that certain Master Lease of even date herewith (the "Master Lease"), with those entities listed as a "Lessee" on Schedule III attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company (each a "Lessee" and collectively the "Lessees") is entering into an acquisition and leaseback transaction with the Lessees (the "Sale/Leaseback Transaction"); D. WHEREAS, Parent owns one hundred percent (100%) of the equity interests in each of the entities listed as a "Wholly-Owned Subsidiary" on Schedule IV attached hereto (each, a "Wholly-Owned Subsidiary" and collectively, the "Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries"); E. WHEREAS, Parent and Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc. collectively own one hundred percent (100%) of the equity interests in The pt Group of Penn Hills (the "Penn Hills Subsidiary"); F. WHEREAS, Parent owns sixty-six and seven tenths percent (66.7%) of the equity interests in each of (i) Dale J. Cordial, PT & Robert E. Brett, PT, d/b/a The pt Group and (ii) Dale J. Cordial, PT & Steven J. Teitel, PT, d/b/a The pt Group (each, a "Partially-Owned Subsidiary" and collectively, the "Partially-Owned Subsidiaries");
G. WHEREAS, Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc. owns sixty-six and seven tenths percent (66.7%) of the equity interests in Dale J. Cordial, PT, PC & Joseph R. Chrillo, MS, PT, d/b/a The pt Group (the "DJC Subsidiary"); H. WHEREAS, Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc. and Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc., Number 4 (collectively, the "PT Pledgors") collectively own one hundred percent (100%) of the equity interests in each of (i) The pt Group Physical Therapy for Women and (ii) The pt Group of Moon Township (each, a "PT Pledgor Subsidiary" and collectively, the "PT Pledgor Subsidiaries"); I. WHEREAS, Trans Healthcare of Ohio, Inc. (the "Ohio I Pledgor") owns one hundred percent (100%) of the equity interests in (i) THI of Ohio SNFs, LLC (the "Ohio I Mezzanine Borrower"), (ii) the Lessees listed under its name on Schedule III attached hereto (each an "Ohio Lessee" and collectively the "Ohio Lessees") and (iii) each of THI of Ohio at Kent, LLC, THI of Ohio at Cortland, LLC and THI of Ohio at Berea, LLC (each an "Ohio I Pledgor Subsidiary" and collectively, the "Ohio I Pledgor Subsidiaries"); J. WHEREAS, the Ohio I Mezzanine Borrower owns one hundred percent (100%) of the equity interests in each of the Mortgage Borrowers listed under its name on Schedule I attached hereto (each, an "Ohio Mortgage Borrower" and collectively, the "Ohio Mortgage Borrowers"); K. WHEREAS, THI of Ohio ALFs, Inc. (the "Ohio II Pledgor") owns one hundred percent (100%) of the equity interests in each of (i) THI of Ohio ALFs I, LLC (the "Ohio II Mezzanine Borrower") and (ii) the Lessee listed under its name on Schedule III attached hereto (the "Ohio ALF Lessee"); L. WHEREAS, THI of Maryland, Inc. (the "Maryland Pledgor") owns one hundred percent (100%) of the equity interests in (i) THI of Maryland SNFs I, LLC (the "Maryland I Mezzanine Borrower"), (ii) THI of Maryland SNFs II, LLC (the "Maryland II Mezzanine Borrower"; the Maryland II Mezzanine Borrower and the Maryland I Mezzanine Borrower are individually, a "Maryland Mezzanine Borrower" and collectively, the "Maryland Mezzanine Borrowers"), (iii) each of the Lessees listed under its name on Schedule III attached hereto (each, a "Maryland Lessee" and collectively, the "Maryland Lessees") and (iv) each of THI Therapy Concepts, LLC and THI Services of Maryland, LLC (each a "Maryland Pledgor Subsidiary" and collectively, the "Maryland Pledgor Subsidiaries"); M. WHEREAS, the Maryland I Mezzanine Borrower owns one hundred percent (100%) of the equity interests in each of the Mortgage Borrowers listed under its name on Schedule I attached hereto (each, a "Maryland Mortgage Borrower" and collectively, the "Maryland Mortgage Borrowers"); N. WHEREAS, the Maryland II Mezzanine Borrower owns one hundred percent (100%) of the membership interests in each of (i) THI of Maryland at Franklin Square, LLC and (ii) THI of Maryland at Fort Washington, LLC (each, a "Maryland Leasehold Entity" and collectively, the "Maryland Leasehold Entities"); 2
O. WHEREAS, each of the Mezzanine Borrowers, the Lessees, the Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries, the Penn Hills Subsidiary, the Partially-Owned Subsidiaries, the DJC Subsidiary, the PT Pledgor Subsidiaries and the Maryland Pledgor Subsidiaries, are referred to herein individually as, an "Existing Company" and collectively as, the "Existing Companies" and each corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, general partnership or other entity which may hereafter be formed by any Pledgor, together with each Existing Company is referred to herein as, a "Company" and collectively as, the "Companies"; P. WHEREAS, all of the agreements, instruments and other documents which govern, evidence and/or secure the Mortgage Loan, as the same may from time to time hereafter be modified, supplemented or amended, are hereinafter referred to as the "Mortgage Loan Documents"; and Q. WHEREAS, all of the agreements, instruments and other documents which govern, evidence and/or secure the Mezzanine Loan, as the same may from time to time hereafter be modified, supplemented or amended, are hereinafter referred to as the "Mezzanine Loan Documents"; R. WHEREAS, all of the agreements, instruments and other documents which govern, evidence and/or secure the Sale/Leaseback Transaction, as the same may from time to time hereafter be modified, supplemented or amended, are hereinafter referred to as the "Lease Documents"; S. WHEREAS, to secure the obligations of (i) each Mortgage Borrower under the Mortgage Loan Documents, (ii) each Mezzanine Borrower under the Mezzanine Loan Documents and (iii) each Lessee under the Master Lease and the other Lease Documents, each Pledgor has executed and delivered to Secured Party a certain Guaranty dated of even date herewith (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Master Guaranty," and capitalized terms used herein, unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Master Guaranty); T. WHEREAS, as a condition precedent to making the Mortgage Loan and the Mezzanine Loan and to consummating the Sale/Leaseback Transaction, Secured Party has required, among other things, that this Security Agreement be executed and delivered by each of the Pledgors in order to secure the obligations of each such Pledgor under the Master Guaranty; NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and in order to induce the Secured Party to make the Mortgage Loan to the Mortgage Borrowers and the Mezzanine Loan to the Mezzanine Borrowers and to consummate the Sale/Leaseback Transaction with the Lessees, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each of the Pledgors and Secured Party, intending to be legally bound, do hereby agree as follows: 3
1. Definitions. As used in this Security Agreement, the following terms have the meanings set forth in or incorporated by reference below: (a) "Code" means the Uniform Commercial Code from time to time in effect in the State of New York. (b) "Corporate Company" means each Company that is a corporation, whether now existing or hereafter formed. (c) "LLC Company" means each Company that is a limited liability company, whether now existing or hereafter formed. (d) "Loans" means, collectively, the Mortgage Loan and the Mezzanine Loan. (e) "Loan Documents" means, collectively, the Mortgage Loan Documents and the Mezzanine Loan Documents. (f) "Partnership Company" means each Company that is a general partnership, whether now existing or hereafter formed. (g) "Pledged Company Interests" means the regular membership interests, limited partnership interests or general partnership interests of any Pledgor in each LLC Company or Partnership Company, as applicable, together with all membership or partnership interest certificates, options or rights of any nature whatsoever which may be issued or granted by such LLC Company or Partnership Company, as applicable, while this Security Agreement is in effect. (h) "Pledged Securities" means collectively, the Pledged Company Interests and the Pledged Stock. (i) "Pledged Stock" means the shares of capital stock of Parent in each Corporate Company, together with all stock certificates, options or rights of any nature whatsoever which may be issued or granted by such Corporate Company while this Security Agreement is in effect. (j) "Proceeds" means all "proceeds" as such term is defined in Section 9-306(1) of the Code on the date hereof and, in any event, shall include, without limitation, all dividends or other income from the Pledged Securities, collections thereon or distributions with respect thereto. 4
2. Pledge, Security Interest And Assignment of Limited Liability Company Distributions. (a) As security for the full and faithful payment, performance and observance by each Pledgor of all obligations to be paid, performed or observed by such Pledgor under the Master Guaranty (collectively, the "Secured Obligations"), each Pledgor hereby grants and pledges to Secured Party, as pledgee, a first priority and continuing lien on, and a first priority and continuing security interest in, and, in furtherance of such grant and pledge, hereby transfers and assigns to Secured Party as collateral security, all of its right, title and interest in, to and under, and/or with respect to, and/or arising from or out of, the following, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, whether now existing or hereafter arising and wherever located (collectively, the "Pledged Collateral"): (i) all of Pledgor's right, title and interest in and to the Pledged Securities; (ii) all rights, privileges, authority and power arising from Pledgor's interest in each Company (provided, however, that, so long as no Event of Default exists, Pledgor may exercise such rights, privileges, authority and power vested in Pledgor as a member, partner, shareholder or equity holder, as the case may be, of such Company); (iii) the capital of Pledgor in each Company and any and all profits, losses, distributions and allocations attributable thereto as well as the proceeds of any distribution thereof, whether arising under the terms of any of the following documents, as applicable (each an "Organizational Document" and collectively, the "Organizational Documents"): articles of incorporation, certificate of formation, certificate of organization, by-laws, limited partnership agreement, limited liability company agreement, stock certificates, certificates of limited partnership interests or general partnership interests (if any), certificates of limited liability company membership interests (if any), and all amendments or modifications of any of the foregoing, and all other agreements, instruments and/or other organizational or governing documents of or relating to each Company; (iv) all other payments, if any, due or to become due to Pledgor in respect of the Pledged Collateral, under or arising out of any Organizational Document of any Company, or otherwise, whether as contractual obligations, damages, insurance proceeds, condemnation awards or otherwise (including, without limitation, all amounts deposited and/or to be deposited in the Cash Management Account (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement and the Cash Management Account (as defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement) and all other cash collateral for the Loans); (v) all of Pledgor's claims, rights, powers, privileges, authority, options, security interests, Liens and remedies, if any, under or arising out of the ownership of the Pledged Collateral; 5
(vi) all present and future claims, if any, of Pledgor against any Company for monies loaned or advanced, for services rendered or otherwise; (vii) all of Pledgor's rights pursuant to any Organizational Document of any Company, or at law, to exercise and enforce every right, power, remedy, authority, option and privilege of Pledgor relating to the Pledged Securities, including the right to execute any instruments and to take any and all other action on behalf of and in the name of Pledgor in respect of the Pledged Securities and/or such Company, to make determinations, to exercise any election (including, but not limited to, election of remedies) or option or to give or receive any notice, consent, amendment, waiver or approval, together with full power and authority to demand, receive, enforce or collect any of the foregoing or any property of such Company, to enforce or execute any checks, or other instruments or orders and to file any claims and to take any action in connection with any of the foregoing; (viii) all Investment Property (as such term is defined in the Code) issued by, or relating to, any Company; (ix) all equity interests or other property now owned or hereafter acquired by Pledgor as a result of exchange offers, recapitalizations of any type, contributions to capital, options or other rights relating to the Pledged Collateral; and (x) to the extent not otherwise included, all Proceeds of any or all of the foregoing, as applicable. (b) Concurrently with the execution of this Security Agreement, (i) each of the Pledgors shall execute and deliver to Secured Party, for filing, all UCC-1 financing statements in proper form necessary to perfect the security interests granted hereunder in all jurisdictions deemed relevant by Secured Party (collectively, the "Financing Statements"), and each of the Pledgors agrees to pay any and all fees or other charges relating to the filing of the Financing Statements and hereby authorizes and instructs Secured Party to make such payments by deducting from the proceeds of the Loans advanced to the Pledgors the full amount of such fees or other charges. (c) (i) With respect to each Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, Parent shall deliver to Secured Party the sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents all of the shares in such Wholly-Owned Subsidiary, (ii) with respect to the Ohio I Mezzanine Borrower, the Ohio I Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party the sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in the Ohio I Mezzanine Borrower, (iii) with respect to each Ohio Lessee, the Ohio I Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party the sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in such Ohio Lessee, (iv) with respect to each Ohio I Pledgor Subsidiary, the Ohio I Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party the sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in such Ohio I Pledgor Subsidiary, (v) with respect to the Ohio II Mezzanine Borrower, the Ohio II Pledgor shall deliver 6
to Secured Party the sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in the Ohio II Mezzanine Borrower, (vi) with respect to the Ohio ALF Lessee, the Ohio II Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party the sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in the Ohio ALF Lessee, (vii) with respect to each Maryland Mezzanine Borrower, the Maryland Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party the sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in such Maryland Mezzanine Borrower, (viii) with respect to each Maryland Lessee, the Maryland Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party the sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in such Maryland Lessee and (ix) with respect to each Maryland Pledgor Subsidiary, the Maryland Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party the sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in such Maryland Pledgor Subsidiary. Attached hereto as Exhibit A is a copy of the certificates to be delivered to Secured Party pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence (each, a "Certificate" and collectively, the "Certificates"). Each Certificate shall be duly "indorsed in blank" within the meaning of the Code in a manner sufficient to provide Secured Party with "control" of such certificated security within the meaning of Section 8-106 of the Code. Concurrently with the delivery to Secured Party of each Certificate representing one or more shares of the Pledged Securities, Parent shall deliver an undated stock or certificate power covering each such Certificate, duly executed in blank with signature guaranteed if Secured Party shall so request. (d) That portion of the Pledged Collateral which is comprised of all distributions or other payments or receipts of cash or other property (including, but not limited to, Investment Property or other property described in Section 2(a)(viii) or Section 2(a)(ix) hereof) received by any Pledgor directly or indirectly from any Company is referred to hereinafter sometimes as the "Distributions". Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Security Agreement, with respect to the Distributions, subject to the provisions of the Loan Documents and the Lease Documents, including, but not limited to the Master Guaranty, this Security Agreement constitutes a present, and current assignment of the Distributions effective upon the execution and delivery hereof. Accordingly, if any Pledgor shall, at any time during a Cash Management Period (as defined in the Mortgage Loan Agreement and the Mezzanine Loan Agreement) or during a period in which it is in violation of any of the Loan Documents or Lease Documents, including, but not limited to, the Master Guaranty, receive, irrespective of whether or not such receipt occurs before or after an Event of Default, one or more Distributions (including, but not limited to, any distribution of the items of Pledged Collateral referred to in Section 2(a)(viii) or Section 2(a)(ix) above), such funds or property shall be held by such Pledgor in trust for Secured Party and delivered within three (3) Business Days to Secured Party (duly endorsed in blank in the case of certificated securities in registered form (within the meaning of relevant Sections of the Code)) for application by Secured Party in accordance with Section 11 hereof. 7
3. Representations and Warranties. Each Pledgor represents and warrants as of the date hereof that: (a) no authorization, consent of or notice to any other Person (including, without limitation, any member, partner, shareholder or creditor of Pledgor, or of any Company) that has not been obtained, is required in connection with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of this Security Agreement including, without limitation, the assignment and transfer by Pledgor of any of the Pledged Collateral to Secured Party or the subsequent transfer thereof by Secured Party pursuant to the terms hereof; (b) the Pledged Securities constitute all the issued and outstanding equity, membership interests, limited partnership interests, general partnership interests or capital stock, as the case may be, in the each Company (other than the Partially-Owned Subsidiaries and the DJC Subsidiary); (c) Parent owns sixty-six and seven tenths percent (66.7%) in each of the Partially-Owned Subsidiaries and such interests represent all of the interest owned by Parent; (d) Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc. owns sixty-six and seven tenths percent (66.7%) in the DJC Subsidiary and such interests represent all of the interest owned by Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc.; (e) Pledgor is the record and beneficial owner of, and has good and marketable title to, the Pledged Company Interests pledged by it, free of any and all Liens or options in favor of, or claims of, any other Person, except the Lien created by this Security Agreement; (f) upon the filing of the UCC-1 financing statements referred to in Section 2(b) and delivery of the Certificates referred to in Section 2(c), the Lien granted pursuant to this Security Agreement will constitute a valid, perfected first priority Lien on the Pledged Company Interests and related Proceeds, enforceable as a valid, perfected first priority Lien against all creditors of Pledgor and any Persons purporting to purchase any Pledged Company Interests and related Proceeds from Pledgor; (g) all of the Pledged Stock have been duly and validly issued and are fully paid and nonassessable; (h) Pledgor is the record and beneficial owner of, and has good and marketable title to, the Pledged Stock pledged by it, free of any and all Liens or options in favor of, or claims of, any other Person, except the Lien created by this Security Agreement; (i) upon delivery to Secured Party of the Certificates evidencing the Pledged Stock pledged by Parent, the Lien granted pursuant to this Security Agreement will constitute a valid, perfected first priority Lien on such Pledged Stock and related Proceeds, 8
enforceable as a valid, perfected first priority Lien against all creditors of Parent and any Persons purporting to purchase any Pledged Stock and related Proceeds from Parent; (j) the exact name of Pledgor is as set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Security Agreement or as set forth on Schedule V hereof; (k) Pledgor is organized under the laws of the State set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Security Agreement or as set forth on Schedule V hereof; (l) the principal place of business and chief executive office of Pledgor is located at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011; (m) there currently exist no certificates, instruments or writings representing the Pledged Securities in any Partnership Company. However, to the extent that in the future there exist any such certificates, instruments or writings, Pledgor shall deliver all such certificates, instruments or writings to Secured Party; (n) the Existing Companies and the Mortgage Borrowers represent all the existing direct and indirect subsidiaries of Parent; provided, however, Parent owns one hundred percent (100%) of a subsidiary know as THI of Columbus, Inc, and a subsidiary known as THI of Cleveland, Inc.; and (o) there are no shareholder, partnership or member agreements or other Organizational Documents which limit the rights of any Pledgor to pledge the Pledged Collateral or limit the ability of Lender to exercise any of its rights with respect to the Pledged Collateral. 4. Covenants. Each Pledgor covenants and agrees with Secured Party that, from and after the date of this Security Agreement until the Loans are paid in full and the obligations of the Lessees under the Lease Documents have been satisfied in full (exclusive of any indemnification or other obligations which are expressly stated in any of the Loan Documents or Lease Documents to survive satisfaction of the Loan Documents or Lease Documents, but subject to the potential early termination of the Master Guaranty as set forth in Section 2.12 thereof as it relates to the Mortgage Loan): (a) if Pledgor shall, as a result of its ownership of the Pledged Securities, become entitled to receive or shall receive any stock certificate, limited partnership or general partnership certificate, or regular membership certificate, as applicable (including, without limitation, any certificate representing a dividend or a distribution in connection with any reclassification, increase or reduction of capital or any certificate issued in connection with any reorganization), option or rights, whether in addition to, in substitution of, as a conversion of, or in exchange for any of the Pledged Securities, or otherwise in respect thereof, Pledgor shall accept the same as Secured Party's agent, hold the same in trust for Secured Party and deliver the same forthwith to Secured Party in the exact form received, duly endorsed by Pledgor to Secured Party, if required, together with an undated stock, regular limited partnership or general 9
partnership interest, or membership interest power covering such certificate duly executed in blank and with signature guaranteed if Secured Party shall so request, to be held by Secured Party hereunder as additional security for the Loans and the obligations arising under the Sale/Leaseback Transaction. Any sums paid upon or in respect of the Pledged Securities upon the liquidation or dissolution of any Company shall be paid over to Secured Party to be held by it hereunder as additional security for the Loans and the obligations arising under the Sale/Leaseback Transaction, and in case any distribution of capital shall be made on or in respect of the Pledged Securities or any property shall be distributed upon or with respect to the Pledged Securities pursuant to the recapitalization or reclassification of the capital of any Company, or pursuant to the reorganization thereof, the property so distributed shall be delivered to Secured Party to be held by it, subject to the terms hereof, as additional security for the Loans and the obligations arising under the Sale/Leaseback Transaction. If any sums of money or property so paid or distributed in respect of the Pledged Company Interests shall be received by Pledgor, Pledgor shall, until such money or property is paid or delivered to Secured Party, hold such money or property in trust for Lender, segregated from other funds of Pledgor, as additional security for the Loans and the obligations arising under the Sale/Leaseback Transaction. (b) Without the prior written consent of Secured Party, Pledgor shall not, directly or indirectly, (i) vote to enable, or take any other action to permit, any Company to issue any limited or general partnership interests, membership interests or shares, as applicable, or to issue any other securities convertible into, or to grant the right to purchase or exchange for, any limited or general partnership interests or membership interests, as applicable, in any Company, or (ii) except as permitted by the Loan Documents or the Lease Documents, sell, assign, transfer, exchange or otherwise dispose of, or grant any option with respect to, the Pledged Collateral, or (iii) create, incur, authorize or permit to exist any Lien or option in favor of, or any claim of any Person with respect to, any of the Pledged Collateral, or any interest therein, except for the Lien provided for by this Security Agreement. Pledgor shall defend the right, title and interest of Secured Party in and to the Pledged Collateral against the claims and demands of all Persons whomsoever. (c) If any amount payable under or in connection with any of the Pledged Collateral shall be or become evidenced by any promissory note, other instrument or chattel paper, such note, instrument or chattel paper shall be promptly delivered to Secured Party, duly endorsed in a manner satisfactory to Secured Party, to be held as Pledged Collateral pursuant to this Security Agreement. (d) Pledgor (i) will not, and will not permit any Company to, create, incur or permit to exist, (ii) will, and will cause each Company to, defend the Pledged Securities against, and (iii) will, and will cause each Company to, take all such other action as is necessary to remove, any Lien or claim on or to the Pledged Securities, other than the Liens created hereby. Pledgor will, and will cause each Company to, defend the right, title and interest of Secured Party in, to and under the Pledged Securities against the claims and demands of all Persons whomsoever. 10
(e) Pledgor will furnish and will cause each Company to furnish to Secured Party from time to time statements and schedules further identifying and describing the Pledged Securities and such other reports in connection with the Pledged Securities as Secured Party may reasonably request, all in reasonable detail. (f) Pledgor will not and will not permit any Company to (unless (i) it shall have given thirty (30) days' prior written notice to such effect to Secured Party and (ii) all action necessary or advisable, in Secured Party's opinion, to protect and perfect the Liens and security interests intended to be created hereunder with respect to the Pledged Securities shall have been taken): (A) change the location of its chief executive office or principal place of business from that specified in Section 3 above, or (B) change its name, identity or structure, or (c) reorganize or reincorporate under the laws of another jurisdiction. (g) Pledgor shall pay, and save Secured Party harmless from, any and all liabilities with respect to, or resulting from any delay in paying, any and all stamp, excise, sales or other taxes which may be payable or determined to be payable with respect to any of the Pledged Collateral or in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Security Agreement. 5. Indemnification. (a) Each Pledgor shall indemnify and hold harmless Secured Party and its directors, officers, employees, agents and contractors from and against any and all liability, loss, expense, cost or damage which any of them may suffer or incur and which arises out of or results from: (i) this Security Agreement, the grant, pledge and assignment of security hereunder, the receipt of Distributions, and/or the exercise of any right, remedy or power hereunder, except to the extent that it is finally judicially determined that any such liability, loss, expense, cost or damage resulted from the gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct of any indemnified person; or (ii) any claim or any alleged obligation, liability or duty on the part of Secured Party to perform or discharge on behalf of Pledgor any obligation, liability or duty of Pledgor which arises or accrues prior to the date, if ever, on which Secured Party acquires title to the Pledged Collateral by foreclosure, assignment in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise. (b) Each Pledgor shall reimburse each Person indemnified under this Section 5 within ten (10) Business Days after demand by Secured Party or such indemnified person for the full amount of any indemnity to which such person may be entitled hereunder, which shall include all of such person's reasonable costs and expenses with respect thereto (including, without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and related expenses as and when incurred), and the full amount of Pledgor's indemnity obligation shall be considered to 11
be a Secured Obligation and shall be secured hereby. The indemnity set forth in this Section 5 shall survive the termination of this Security Agreement. (c) Notwithstanding anything contained herein or in any of the Loan Documents to the contrary, no Pledgor will be liable for any losses described in this Section 5, which first occur following the effective date of a transfer of title to the Pledged Collateral to Secured Party or its Affiliates, in foreclosure or otherwise. 6. Remedies. If an Event of Default shall occur: (a) Secured Party, without obligation to resort to any other security, right or remedy granted under any other agreement or instrument, shall have the right, in addition to all rights, powers and remedies of a secured party pursuant to the Code and/or any other applicable laws, to, at any time and from time to time, (i) cause any part or all of the Pledged Collateral to be registered in or transferred into the name of Secured Party or into the name of a nominee or nominees, or designee or designees, of Secured Party, and/or (ii) apply the cash, if any, then held by it as Pledged Collateral in reduction of the Secured Obligations in accordance with the terms of the Loan Documents, and/or (iii) sell, resell, assign and deliver, in its sole and absolute discretion, any or all of the Pledged Collateral (whether in whole or in part and at the same or different times) and all right, title and interest, claim and demand therein and right of redemption thereof, at public or private sale, for cash and/or with credit provided by Secured Party, and in connection therewith Secured Party may grant options and may impose conditions such as requiring any purchaser to represent that any "securities" (within the meaning of the Federal securities laws) constituting any part of the Pledged Collateral are being purchased for investment only, and in connection with any of the foregoing described in clause (iii), each Pledgor hereby irrevocably waives and releases any and all rights of redemption. If all or any part of the Pledged Collateral is sold by Secured Party upon credit provided by Secured Party, Secured Party shall not be liable for the failure of the purchaser to purchase or pay for the same and, in the event of any such failure, Secured Party may freely resell such Pledged Collateral. Secured Party may exercise its rights with respect to less than all of the Pledged Collateral, leaving unexercised its rights with respect to the remainder of the Pledged Collateral; such partial exercise shall in no way restrict or jeopardize Secured Party's right to exercise its rights with respect to all or any part of the remaining Pledged Collateral at a later time or times. Secured Party may, instead of the power of sale herein conferred upon it, proceed by a suit or suits at law or in equity to foreclose all or any part of the security interests in the Pledged Collateral and sell the Pledged Collateral, or any portion thereof, under a judgment or decree of a court or courts of competent jurisdiction. (b) Secured Party may exercise, either by itself or by its nominee or designee, in the name and place of any Pledgor, the rights, powers and remedies granted to Secured Party under Section 2(a) hereof, including but not limited to Section 2(a)(ii) hereof, in respect of the Pledged Collateral. Such rights, powers and remedies shall include, without limitation, the right to exercise all voting, consent, managerial and other rights relating to the Pledged Collateral, whether in such Pledgor's name or otherwise, and the right to exercise such 12
Pledgor's rights, if any, of conversion, exchange, subscription or any other rights, privileges or options pertaining to any of the Pledged Collateral, including, without limitation, the right to exchange, at its discretion, any and all of the Pledged Collateral upon the merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization or other readjustment of any Company, all without liability, except to account for property actually received by Secured Party. (c) Each Pledgor hereby irrevocably authorizes and empowers Secured Party, and assigns and transfers to Secured Party, and constitutes and appoints Secured Party and any of its assigns, its true and lawful attorney-in-fact, and as its agent, irrevocably, with full power of substitution for it and in its name, in order to more fully vest in Secured Party the rights and remedies provided for herein, and each Pledgor, further authorizes and empowers Secured Party and any of its assigns, as its attorney-in-fact, and as its agent, irrevocably, with full power of substitution for it and in its name, to proceed from time to time in Pledgor's name in any statutory or non-statutory legal or other proceeding, including but not limited to any bankruptcy proceeding, affecting Pledgor or the Pledged Collateral, and Secured Party, any of its assigns or their respective nominees or designees, may in connection herewith (i) execute and file proofs of claims relating to the Pledged Collateral and vote such claims for all or any portion of the Pledged Collateral (x) for or against any proposal or resolution, (y) for a trustee or trustees or for a receiver or receivers or for a committee of creditors and/or (z) for the acceptance or rejection of any proposed arrangement, plan or reorganization, composition or extension, and Secured Party or its nominee or designee may receive any payment or distribution and give acquittance therefor and may exchange or release any portion or all of the Pledged Collateral; and (ii) endorse any draft or other instrument for the payment of money, execute releases and negotiate settlements. Nothing contained in the foregoing provisions of this Section 6(c) shall be deemed or construed to be a limitation on, or waiver by Secured Party of, any of Secured Party's other rights or remedies hereunder or under any of the Mortgage Loan Documents, the Mezzanine Loan Documents or the Lease Documents. Secured Party shall have no duty to exercise any of the aforesaid rights, privileges or options and shall not be responsible for any failure to do so or delay in so doing. The foregoing powers of attorney are irrevocable and coupled with an interest, and any similar or dissimilar powers heretofore given by any Pledgor in respect of the Pledged Collateral to any other person other than Secured Party are hereby revoked. The power of attorney granted herein shall terminate automatically upon the termination of this Security Agreement in accordance with Section 15 hereof. (d) Secured Party may at any time and from time to time, without notice to, or assent by, any Pledgor or any other person, but without affecting any of the Secured Obligations, in the name of such Pledgor or in the name of Secured Party (i) notify any other party to make payment and performance with respect to any item of Pledged Collateral directly to Secured Party, (ii) extend the time of payment and performance of, compromise or settle for cash, credit or otherwise, and upon any terms and conditions, any obligations owing to such Pledgor, or claims of such Pledgor under any of the Organizational Documents of any Company, (iii) file any claims, and/or commence, maintain or discontinue any actions, suits or other proceedings deemed by Secured Party to be necessary or advisable for the purpose of collecting upon or enforcing any of the Organizational Documents of any Company, and (iv) execute any 13
instrument and do all other things deemed necessary and proper by Secured Party to protect and preserve and realize upon the Pledged Collateral or any portion thereof and the other rights contemplated hereby. (e) Secured Party may without notice to, or the consent of, any Pledgor require (i) that any and all Distributions, and/or other distributions or payments of any type payable to such Pledgor with respect to all or any part of the Pledged Collateral be paid to Secured Party and/or its nominees, and/or (ii) that Secured Party or its nominee, designee, agent or assignee be substituted for such Pledgor or any of its nominees or designees, as officers and/or directors and/or other agents or representatives of any Company. (f) Pursuant to the powers of attorney provided for by Section 6(c) hereof, Secured Party may reasonably take any action and exercise and execute any instrument which it may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes of this Security Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Secured Party shall have the right and power to receive, endorse and collect all checks and other orders for the payment of money made payable to any Pledgor representing any Distribution, interest, payment of principal or other distribution or payment payable in respect of the Pledged Collateral or any part thereof, and for and in the name, place and stead of such Pledgor, to execute endorsements, assignments or other instruments of conveyance or transfer in respect of the Pledged Collateral and any other property which is or may become a part of the Pledged Collateral hereunder. (g) Without limiting any other provision of this Security Agreement, and without waiving or releasing any Pledgor from any obligation or default hereunder, Secured Party shall have the right, but not the obligation, to perform any act or take any action, as it, in its judgment, may deem necessary to cure any Event of Default, cause any term, covenant, condition or obligation required under this Security Agreement to be performed or observed by any Pledgor to be promptly performed or observed on behalf of such Pledgor, or protect the security provided to Secured Party under this Security Agreement. All amounts advanced by, or on behalf of, Secured Party in exercising its rights under this Section 6(g) (including, but not limited to, reasonable legal expenses and disbursements incurred in connection therewith as and when incurred), together with interest thereon at a rate equal to ten percent (10%) (the "Default Rate") from the date of each such advance, shall be payable by the Pledgors to Secured Party within fifteen (15) days after written demand therefor and shall be Secured Obligations under this Security Agreement. 7. Sales of the Pledged Collateral; Strict Foreclosure. (a) No demand, advertisement or notice, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Pledgor, shall be required in connection with any sale or other disposition of all or any part of the Pledged Collateral pursuant to Section 6 hereof, except that Secured Party shall give such Pledgor at least ten (10) days' prior written notice of the time and place of any public sale or of the time and the place at which any private sale or other disposition is to be made, which notice such Pledgor hereby agrees is reasonable, and all other demands, advertisements and notices are hereby irrevocably waived by such Pledgor. To the extent 14
permitted by law, Secured Party shall not be obligated to make any sale of the Pledged Collateral if it shall determine not to do so, regardless of the fact that notice of sale may have been given, and Secured Party may without notice or publication adjourn any public or private sale, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which such sale is so adjourned. Subject only to provisions of applicable law which cannot be waived, upon each public or private sale of any portion of or all of the Pledged Collateral, Secured Party (or its nominee or designee) may purchase any or all of the Pledged Collateral being sold, free and clear of and discharged from any trusts, claims, equity or right of redemption of any Pledgor, all of which are hereby waived and released to the extent permitted by law, and may make payment therefor by credit against any of the Secured Obligations in lieu of cash or any other obligations. In the case of any sale, public or private, of any portion of or all of the Pledged Collateral, each Pledgor shall be responsible for, and shall pay within fifteen (15) days after demand therefore, all costs and expenses of every kind relating to the sale and delivery of the Pledged Collateral, including, without limitation, brokers' and reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements and any tax imposed thereon and such obligation to pay such costs and expenses shall be a Secured Obligation. (b) To the extent permitted under applicable law, Secured Party shall not be required to conduct any foreclosure sale of any part of the Pledged Collateral. Secured Party may, in its sole and absolute discretion, retain and acquire for itself and/or its designees or nominees, the Pledged Collateral by, as contemplated by Section 6(a)(i) hereof, instructing each Pledgor to register on its ledgers and books Secured Party's acquisition of the Pledged Collateral and the Certificate which embodies the Pledged Collateral, subject to any rights of such Pledgor to object in accordance with the Code, if such Pledgor has not renounced or waived such rights in accordance with the Code. In connection therewith, Secured Party shall have the right to complete any endorsements in its favor on the Certificates or any other certificated securities or instruments which at any time are part of the Pledged Collateral. 8. Securities Laws. If an Event of Default shall have occurred, Secured Party may, in its sole and absolute discretion, sell all of the Pledged Collateral or any part thereof by private sale in such manner and under such circumstances as Secured Party may deem necessary or advisable in order that such sale may legally be effected without registration pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 or any other Federal, state or local law governing the offering or sale of securities, provided that at least ten (10) days' prior written notice of the time and place of any such sale shall be given to the applicable Pledgor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in any such event Secured Party, in its sole and absolute discretion (i) may proceed to make such private sale notwithstanding that a registration statement for the purpose of registering such Pledged Collateral or part thereof shall not have been filed or shall not have become effective such Securities Act, (ii) may approach and negotiate with a single potential purchaser to effect such sale, and (iii) may restrict such sale to a purchaser who will represent and agree that such purchaser is purchasing for its own account, for investment, and not with a view to the distribution or sale of such Pledged Collateral or part thereof. In the event of any such sale, 15
Secured Party shall incur no responsibility or liability for selling all or any part of the Pledged Collateral at a price which Secured Party may in good faith deem reasonable under the circumstances, notwithstanding the possibility that a substantially higher price might be realized if the sale were deferred until after registration as aforesaid. 9. Receipt of Sale Proceeds. Upon any sale of the Pledged Collateral, or any portion thereof, by Secured Party hereunder (whether by virtue of the power of sale herein granted, pursuant to judicial process or otherwise), the receipt of Secured Party or the officer making the sale shall be a sufficient discharge to the purchaser or purchasers of the Pledged Collateral so sold, and such purchaser or purchasers shall not be obligated to see to the application of any part of the purchase money paid over to Secured Party or such officer or be answerable in any way for the misapplication or nonapplication thereof. 10. Costs and Expenses. (a) Each Pledgor agrees that it shall pay to Secured Party: (i) within fifteen (15) days after receipt of an invoice therefor (accompanied by customary supporting material), the amount of any taxes Secured Party may have been required to pay by reason of the security interests created in the Pledged Collateral hereunder (excluding any income taxes, franchise taxes or other taxes based upon Secured Party's income) or any amount necessary to free any of the Pledged Collateral from any lien not created in favor of Secured Party thereon, and (ii) within fifteen (15) days after receipt of an invoice therefor (accompanied by customary supporting material), the amount of any and all reasonable expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel as and when incurred and of any other agents or experts and any transfer taxes or other taxes or governmental charges or fees (whether now existing or hereinafter enacted), Secured Party may incur in connection with (a) the enforcement of this Security Agreement, including such reasonable expenses as are incurred to preserve the value of the Pledged Collateral or the validity, effectiveness, enforceability, perfection, priority or value of any security interest, (b) after the occurrence of an Event of Default, the collection, sale or other disposition of any of the Pledged Collateral, (c) the exercise by Secured Party of any of the rights and/or remedies conferred upon it hereunder, or (d) any Event of Default. (b) Any amount required to be paid by any Pledgor under Section 10(a) above which is not paid when due shall bear interest for each day from the date advanced by or on behalf of the Secured Party until repaid by such Pledgor at the Default Rate. All obligations and liabilities of each Pledgor under Section 10(a) above and this Section 10(b) shall be Secured Obligations under this Security Agreement. 16
11. Application of Pledgor's Pledged Collateral. The Pledged Collateral and any proceeds thereof (including, without limitation, any proceeds from the sale of all or any portion of the Pledged Collateral and all Distributions) now or at any time hereafter received or retained by Secured Party pursuant to the provisions of this Security Agreement shall, after the occurrence of an Event of Default and acceleration of the Loans, be applied by Secured Party in the following order of priority: first, to the payment of all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the administration and enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under, this Security Agreement (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees) and, second, to the payment of the Secured Obligations in such order and manner as Secured Party may determine in its sole and absolute discretion. 12. Further Assurances. Each Pledgor agrees that at its sole expense and in such manner and form as Secured Party reasonably may require at any time and from time to time, it shall execute, deliver, file and/or record any financing statement, specific assignment or other writing or instrument, and take any other action that Secured Party may deem reasonably necessary or desirable, or that Secured Party may reasonably request, in order to create, preserve or validate any security interests created hereunder or the priority thereof or to enable Secured Party to exercise and enforce its rights hereunder with respect to any of the Pledged Collateral. Each Pledgor hereby authorizes Secured Party to execute and file at any time or from time to time, in the name of such Pledgor, such UCC financing statements and other similar instruments as Secured Party in its sole discretion may deem necessary or desirable to perfect and continue the security interests created hereunder. 13. Attorney-In-Fact. Secured Party is hereby appointed the attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution, of each Pledgor for the purpose of carrying out the provisions hereof from time to time, after an Event of Default, in Secured Party's discretion, and taking any action and executing any instruments (including, without limitation, financing or continuation statements, conveyances, assignments and transfers) which Secured Party may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes hereof, which appointment as attorney-in-fact is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable. Each Pledgor shall indemnify and hold harmless Secured Party from and against any liability, loss, cost, expense and/or damage which it may incur in the exercise and performance, in good faith, of any of Secured Party's powers and/or duties specifically set forth herein. 14. Waivers. No Pledgor shall be entitled to any notices of any nature whatsoever from Secured Party except with respect to matters for which this Security Agreement or the Loan Documents specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Secured Party to Pledgor and except with respect to matters for which Pledgor is not, pursuant to applicable Legal 17
Requirements, permitted to waive the giving of notice. Each Pledgor hereby expressly waives the right to receive any notice from Secured Party with respect to any matter for which this Security Agreement or the Loan Documents does not specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Secured Party to Pledgor. No delay or omission on the part of Secured Party in exercising any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver of that right or of any other right hereunder. Any waiver of any right on any one occasion shall not be construed as a bar to or waiver of that or any other right on any future occasion. No course of dealing between any Pledgor and Secured Party nor any failure to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, on the part of Secured Party, any right, power or privilege hereunder or with respect to any of the Secured Obligations shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder or otherwise with respect to the Secured Obligations preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. 15. Termination. This Security Agreement and the security interests in and lien on each Pledgor's Pledged Collateral created hereby shall terminate upon the earlier of (i) the indefeasible payment and satisfaction in full of all of the Secured Obligations or (ii) the occurrence of a Covenant Replacement Event under Section 2.13 of the Master Guaranty. 16. Integration Clause. This Security Agreement, together with all of the other Loan Documents, represents the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and all prior or contemporaneous agreements, understandings or other communications, oral or written, regarding the subject matter which are not expressed herein or therein shall be of no force and effect. 17. Amendments and Waivers In Writing Only. This Security Agreement shall not be amended or otherwise modified except by a further written agreement executed and delivered by all of the parties hereto. No waiver, express or implied, of any of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless embodied in a written document executed by the party hereto who is charged with such waiver. 18. Successors and Assigns. Except as may be expressly permitted in the Loan Documents and the Lease Documents, neither this Security Agreement, nor any right title and/or interest herein, shall be assigned or otherwise transferred by any Pledgor without the prior written consent of Secured Party. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Security Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. 18
19. Notices. All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals or other communications (collectively, "Notices") required or permitted to be given hereunder to Secured Party or any Pledgor or which are given to Secured Party or any Pledgor with respect to this Security Agreement shall be in writing and otherwise given in accordance with Section 10.5 of the Master Guaranty. 20. No Duty to Preserve Pledgor's Pledged Collateral. Secured Party shall not have any duty as to the collection or protection of the Pledged Collateral or any income thereon or payments with respect thereto, or as to the preservation of any rights pertaining thereto, beyond exercising reasonable care with respect to any cash or any Certificate that is actually in Secured Party's possession pursuant hereto. 21. No Release. The obligations of each Pledgor under this Security Agreement shall be absolute and unconditional and shall remain in full force and effect without regard to, and, subject to Section 15 hereof, shall not be released, suspended, discharged, terminated or otherwise affected by, any circumstances or occurrence whatsoever, including, without limitation: (a) any renewal, extension, amendment or modification of, or addition or supplement to or deletion from, any of the Loan Documents or Lease Documents or any other instrument or agreement referred to therein, or any assignment or transfer of any thereof; (b) any waiver, consent, extension, indulgence or other action or inaction under or in respect of any of the Loan Documents or Lease Documents or any exercise or non-exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege under or in respect of any of the Loan Documents or Lease Documents, respectively; (c) any furnishing of any additional security to Secured Party or any acceptance thereof or any sale, exchange, release, surrender or realization of or upon any security by Secured Party; or (d) any invalidity, irregularity or unenforceability of all or part of the Secured Obligations or of any security therefor. 22. Waiver of Marshalling of Assets Defense. To the fullest extent that each Pledgor may legally do so, each Pledgor hereby waives all rights to a marshalling of the assets of Pledgor, and/or any others with interests in Pledgor, and/or of the Pledged Collateral, or to a sale in inverse order of alienation in the event of foreclosure of the interests hereby created, and agree not to assert any right under any laws pertaining to the marshalling of assets, sales in inverse order of alienation or any other matters whatsoever to defeat, reduce or affect the right of Secured Party to a sale of the Pledged Collateral for the collection of the Secured Obligations without any prior or different resort for collection. 19
23. General Provisions Relating To Secured Party's Remedies. Without limitation of any right or remedy of Secured Party in this Security Agreement, each Pledgor acknowledges and agrees that upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default (i) the rights and remedies of Secured Party herein provided or provided under any of the Loan Documents or Lease Documents shall be cumulative, and shall be in addition to and not exclusive of or in limitation of any rights and remedies provided by applicable law, including, without limitation, the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Code or any other applicable laws or in an equity proceeding, (ii) Secured Party shall have the right to pursue all of its rights and remedies in one proceeding, or separately and independently in separate proceedings, in each case as Secured Party, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine from time to time, (iii) Secured Party shall not be required to either marshal assets or sell the Pledged Collateral in any inverse order of alienation, and shall not be subjected to any "one action" or "election of remedies" law or rule, (iv) the exercise by Secured Party of any remedies against any of the Pledged Collateral shall not impede Secured Party from subsequently or simultaneously exercising remedies against any other collateral or security, and (v), subject to Section 15 hereof, all liens and other rights, remedies and privileges provided to Secured Party in this Security Agreement and the other Loan Documents or Lease Documents or otherwise shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no event terminate prior to the exhaustion by Secured Party of all of its remedies against the Pledged Collateral and Secured Party's foreclosure, sale and/or other realization upon all of the Pledged Collateral. 24. Governing Law. This Security Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to its conflicts of law principles. 25. Registration of Pledge. Concurrently with the execution of this Security Instrument, Parent shall deliver to the Penn Hills Subsidiary and each Partially-Owned Subsidiary, written instructions substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto and shall cause each such subsidiary to deliver to Secured Party an Initial Transaction Statement in the form of Exhibit C attached hereto confirming that such subsidiary has noted the pledge effected by this Security Agreement on its books and records. Similarly, (i) Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc. shall deliver to each of (A) the Penn Hills Subsidiary and (B) the DJC Subsidiary, written instructions substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto and shall cause each such subsidiary to deliver to Secured Party an Initial Transaction Statement in the form of Exhibit C attached hereto confirming that such subsidiary has noted the pledge effected by this Security Agreement on its books and records, and (ii) each of the PT Pledgors shall deliver to each of the PT Pledgor Subsidiaries, written instructions substantially in the form of Exhibit B attached hereto and shall cause each such subsidiary to deliver to Secured Party an Initial Transaction Statement in the form of Exhibit C attached hereto confirming that such subsidiary has noted the pledge effected by this Security Agreement on its books and records. 20
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Security Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written. PLEDGOR: TRANS HEALTHCARE, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President TRANS HEALTHCARE OF OHIO, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI OF OHIO ALFS, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI PROPERTIES, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President
THI SERVICES CORP., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI SPECIALTY HOSPITALS OF OHIO, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President TRANS HEALTH MANAGEMENT, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI OF MARYLAND, INC., a Delaware corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President PHYSICAL THERAPY PLUS, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President
DALE J. CORDIAL, PT, INC., a Pennsylvania corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President DALE J. CORDIAL, PT, INC., NUMBER 4, a Pennsylvania corporation By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO ------------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THE PT GROUP OF PENN HILLS, a Pennsylvania general partnership By: Trans Healthcare, Inc., a Delaware corporation, its Partner By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO --------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THE PT GROUP PHYSICAL THERAPY FOR WOMEN, a Pennsylvania general partnership By: Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc., a Pennsylvania corporation, its Partner By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO --------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President
THE PT GROUP OF MOON TOWNSHIP, a Pennsylvania general partnership By: Dale J. Cordial, PT, Inc., Number 4, a Pennsylvania corporation, its Partner By: /s/ ANTHONY F. MISITANO --------------------------------- Name: Anthony F. Misitano Title: President THI THERAPY CONCEPTS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI SERVICES OF MARYLAND, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ------------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President [Signatures continued on next page]
SECURED PARTY: VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership By: Ventas, Inc. a Delaware corporation, its sole general partner By: /s/ T. RICHARD RINEY --------------------------------- Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President/General Counsel

EXHIBIT 10.3.5 MEZZANINE PLEDGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT THIS MEZZANINE PLEDGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT, dated as of November 1, 2002 (as amended, restated, replaced, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Security Agreement"), is made by THI OF OHIO SNFS, LLC (the "Ohio Pledgor"), THI OF MARYLAND SNFS I, LLC (the "Maryland I Pledgor") and THI OF MARYLAND SNFS II, LLC (the "Maryland II Pledgor"), each a Delaware limited liability company, and each having an address at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011 (each a "Pledgor" and collectively, the "Pledgors"), in favor of VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (together with its successors and assigns, "Secured Party"). RECITALS A. WHEREAS, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, in its capacity as the mortgage lender, is making a first-priority mortgage loan (the "Mortgage Loan") to those entities listed as a "Mortgage Borrower" on Schedule I attached hereto, each a Delaware limited liability company (each a "Mortgage Borrower" and collectively the "Mortgage Borrowers") in the maximum principal amount of $55,000,000; B. WHEREAS, the Ohio Pledgor owns one hundred percent (100%) of the membership interests in each of the Mortgage Borrowers listed under its name on Schedule I attached hereto (each, an "Ohio Mortgage Borrower" and collectively the "Ohio Mortgage Borrowers"); C. WHEREAS, the Maryland I Pledgor owns one hundred percent (100%) of the membership interests in each of the Mortgage Borrowers listed under its name on Schedule I attached hereto (each, a "Maryland Mortgage Borrower" and collectively the "Maryland Mortgage Borrowers"); D. WHEREAS, the Maryland II Pledgor owns one hundred percent (100%) of the membership interests in each of THI of Maryland at Franklin Square, LLC and THI of Maryland at Fort Washington, LLC (each, a "Maryland Leasehold Entity" and collectively, the "Maryland Leasehold Entities"; the Maryland Leasehold Entities and the Mortgage Borrowers are referred to herein individually as, an "Existing Company" and collectively as, the "Existing Companies" and each corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, general partnership or other entity which may hereafter be formed by any Pledgor, together with each Existing Company is referred to herein as, a "Company" and collectively as, the "Companies"); E. WHEREAS, concurrently with the mortgage loan referred to in Recital A above, Secured Party is making a mezzanine loan (the "Mezzanine Loan") to the Pledgors and the Other Mezzanine Borrowers (as hereinafter defined) in the initial principal amount of $22,000,000;
F. WHEREAS, all of the agreements, instruments and other documents which govern, evidence and/or secure the Mezzanine Loan, as the same may from time to time hereafter be modified, supplemented or amended, are hereinafter referred to as the "Mezzanine Loan Documents", and capitalized terms used herein, unless otherwise defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Mezzanine Loan Agreement by and among the Pledgors, the Other Mezzanine Borrowers and Secured Party executed concurrently herewith (as the same may from time to time hereafter be modified, supplemented or amended, the "Mezzanine Loan Agreement"); and G. WHEREAS, as a condition precedent to making the Mezzanine Loan, Secured Party has required, among other things, that this Security Agreement be executed and delivered by each of the Pledgors; NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and in order to induce the Secured Party to make the Mezzanine Loan to the Pledgors and the Other Mezzanine Borrowers, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt, adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, each of the Pledgors and Secured Party, intending to be legally bound, do hereby agree as follows: 1. Definitions. As used in this Security Agreement, the following terms have the meanings set forth in or incorporated by reference below: (a) "Code" means the Uniform Commercial Code from time to time in effect in the State of New York (b) "Other Mezzanine Borrowers" means, collectively, THI of Ohio ALFs I, LLC; THI of Ohio at Kent, LLC; THI of Ohio at Cortland, LLC; THI of Ohio at Berea, LLC; THI of Maryland at Franklin Square, LLC and THI of Maryland at Fort Washington, LLC, each a Delaware limited liability company. (c) "Pledged Company Interests" means the regular membership interests, limited partnership interests or general partnership interests of any Pledgor in each Company, together with all membership or partnership interest certificates, options or rights of any nature whatsoever which may be issued or granted by such Company, while this Security Agreement is in effect. (d) "Proceeds" means all "proceeds" as such term is defined in Section 9-306(1) of the Code on the date hereof and, in any event, shall include, without limitation, all dividends or other income from the Pledged Company Interests, collections thereon or distributions with respect thereto. 2
2. Pledge, Security Interest And Assignment of Limited Liability Company Distributions. (a) As security for the full and punctual payment when due (whether upon stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) of the Mezzanine Loan and the full and faithful payment, performance and observance by each Pledgor of all obligations to be paid, performed or observed by such Pledgor under the Mezzanine Loan Documents (collectively, the "Secured Obligations"), each Pledgor hereby grants and pledges to Secured Party, as pledgee, a first priority and continuing lien on, and a first priority and continuing security interest in, and, in furtherance of such grant and pledge, hereby transfers and assigns to Secured Party as collateral security, all of its right, title and interest in, to and under, and/or with respect to, and/or arising from or out of, the following, whether now owned or hereafter acquired, whether now existing or hereafter arising and wherever located (collectively, the "Pledged Collateral"): (i) all of Pledgor's right, title and interest in and to the Pledged Company Interests; (ii) all rights, privileges, authority and power arising from Pledgor's interest in each Company (provided, however, that, so long as no Event of Default exists, Pledgor may exercise such rights, privileges, authority and power vested in Pledgor as a member of such Company); (iii) the capital of Pledgor in each Company and any and all profits, losses, distributions and allocations attributable thereto as well as the proceeds of any distribution thereof, whether arising under the terms of any of the following documents, as applicable (each an "Organizational Document" and collectively, the "Organizational Documents"): articles of incorporation, certificate of formation, certificate of organization, by-laws, limited partnership agreement, limited liability company agreement, stock certificates, certificates of limited partnership interests or general partnership interests (if any), certificates of limited liability company membership interests (if any), and all amendments or modifications of any of the foregoing, and all other agreements, instruments and/or other organizational or governing documents of or relating to each Company; (iv) all other payments, if any, due or to become due to Pledgor in respect of the Pledged Collateral, under or arising out of any Organizational Document of any Company, or otherwise, whether as contractual obligations, damages, insurance proceeds, condemnation awards or otherwise (including, without limitation, all amounts deposited and/or to be deposited in the Cash Management Account (as defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement) and all other cash collateral for the Mezzanine Loan); (v) all of Pledgor's claims, rights, powers, privileges, authority, options, security interests, Liens and remedies, if any, under or arising out of the ownership of the Pledged Collateral; 3
(vi) all present and future claims, if any, of Pledgor against any Company for monies loaned or advanced, for services rendered or otherwise; (vii) all of Pledgor's rights pursuant to any Organizational Document of any Company or at law, to exercise and enforce every right, power, remedy, authority, option and privilege of Pledgor relating to the Pledged Company Interests, including the right to execute any instruments and to take any and all other action on behalf of and in the name of Pledgor in respect of the Pledged Company Interests and/or such Company to make determinations, to exercise any election (including, but not limited to, election of remedies) or option or to give or receive any notice, consent, amendment, waiver or approval, together with full power and authority to demand, receive, enforce or collect any of the foregoing or any property of such Company, to enforce or execute any checks, or other instruments or orders and to file any claims and to take any action in connection with any of the foregoing; (viii) all Investment Property (as such term is defined in the Code) issued by, or relating to, any Company, as applicable; (ix) all equity interests or other property now owned or hereafter acquired by Pledgor as a result of exchange offers, recapitalizations of any type, contributions to capital, options or other rights relating to the Pledged Collateral; and (x) to the extent not otherwise included, all Proceeds of any or all of the foregoing, as applicable. (b) Concurrently with the execution of this Security Agreement, (i) each of the Pledgors shall deliver to Secured Party, for filing, all UCC-1 financing statements in proper form necessary to perfect the security interests granted hereunder in all jurisdictions deemed relevant by Secured Party (collectively, the "Financing Statements"), and each of the Pledgors agrees to pay any and all fees or other charges relating to the filing of the Financing Statements and hereby authorizes and instructs Secured Party to make such payments by deducting from the proceeds of the Mezzanine Loan advanced to the Pledgors the full amount of such fees or other charges. (c) (i) With respect to each Ohio Mortgage Borrower, the Ohio Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party a sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in such Ohio Mortgage Borrower, (ii) with respect to each Maryland Mortgage Borrower, the Maryland I Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party a sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in such Maryland Mortgage Borrower, and (iii) with respect to each Maryland Leasehold Entity, the Maryland II Pledgor shall deliver to Secured Party a sole original executed certificated security in registered form which represents the sole limited liability company membership interest in such Maryland Leasehold Entity. Attached hereto as Exhibit A is a copy of each of the certificates to be delivered to Secured Party pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence (each, a "Certificate" and collectively, the "Certificates"). Each Certificate shall be duly "indorsed in blank" within 4
the meaning of the Code in a manner sufficient to provide Secured Party with "control" of such certificated security within the meaning of Section 8-106 of the Code. (d) That portion of the Pledged Collateral which is comprised of all distributions or other payments or receipts of cash or other property (including, but not limited to, Investment Property or other property described in Section 2(a)(viii) or Section 2(a)(ix) hereof) received by any Pledgor directly or indirectly from any Company is referred to hereinafter sometimes as the "Distributions". Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Security Agreement, with respect to the Distributions, subject to the other provisions of the Mezzanine Loan Documents, this Security Agreement constitutes a present, and current assignment of the Distributions effective upon the execution and delivery hereof. Accordingly, if any Pledgor shall at any time during a Cash Management Period receive, irrespective of whether or not such receipt occurs before or after an Event of Default, one or more Distributions (including, but not limited to, any distribution of the items of Pledged Collateral referred to in Section 2(a)(viii) or Section 2(a)(ix) above), such funds or property shall be held by such Pledgor in trust for Secured Party and delivered within three (3) Business Days to Secured Party (duly endorsed in blank in the case of certificated securities in registered form (within the meaning of relevant Sections of the Code)) for application by Secured Party in accordance with Section 11 hereof. 3. Representations and Warranties. Each Pledgor represents and warrants as of the date hereof that: (a) no authorization, consent of or notice to any other Person (including, without limitation, any member, partner, shareholder or creditor of Pledgor, or of any Company) that has not been obtained, is required in connection with the execution, delivery, performance, validity or enforceability of this Security Agreement including, without limitation, the assignment and transfer by Pledgor of any of the Pledged Collateral to Secured Party or the subsequent transfer thereof by Secured Party pursuant to the terms hereof; (b) the Pledged Company Interests constitute all the issued and outstanding equity, membership interests, limited partnership interests, general partnership interests or capital stock, as the case may be, in each Company; (c) Pledgor is the record and beneficial owner of, and has good and marketable title to, the Pledged Company Interests pledged by it, free of any and all Liens or options in favor of, or claims of, any other Person, except the Lien created by this Security Agreement; (d) upon the filing of the UCC-1 financing statements referred to in Section 2(b) and delivery of the Certificates referred to in Section 2(c), the Lien granted pursuant to this Security Agreement will constitute a valid, perfected first priority Lien on the Pledged Company Interests and related Proceeds, enforceable as a valid, perfected first priority Lien against all creditors of Pledgor and any Persons purporting to purchase any Pledged Company Interests and related Proceeds from Pledgor; 5
(e) the exact name of Pledgor is as set forth in the introductory paragraph of this Security Agreement; (f) Pledgor is organized under the laws of the State of Delaware; (g) the principal place of business and chief executive office of Pledgor is located at 4660 Trindle Road, Suite 103, Camp Hill, Pennsylvania 17011; and (h) the Ohio Mortgage Borrowers represent all the existing direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Ohio Pledgor, the Maryland Mortgage Borrowers represent all the existing direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Maryland I Pledgor and the Maryland Leasehold Entities represent all the existing direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Maryland II Pledgor ; and (i) there are no shareholder, partnership or member agreements or other Organizational Documents, as applicable, which limit the rights of any Pledgor to pledge the Pledged Collateral or limit the ability of Lender to exercise any of its rights with respect to the Pledged Collateral. 4. Covenants. Each Pledgor covenants and agrees with Secured Party that, from and after the date of this Security Agreement until the Mezzanine Loan (exclusive of any indemnification or other obligations which are expressly stated in any of the Mezzanine Loan Documents to survive satisfaction of the Mezzanine Loan Documents) is paid in full: (a) if Pledgor shall, as a result of its ownership of the Pledged Company Interests, become entitled to receive or shall receive any stock certificate, limited partnership or general partnership certificate, or regular membership certificate, as applicable (including, without limitation, any certificate representing a dividend or a distribution in connection with any reclassification, increase or reduction of capital or any certificate issued in connection with any reorganization), option or rights, whether in addition to, in substitution of, as a conversion of, or in exchange for any of the Pledged Company Interests, or otherwise in respect thereof, Pledgor shall accept the same as Secured Party's agent, hold the same in trust for Secured Party and deliver the same forthwith to Secured Party in the exact form received, duly endorsed by Pledgor to Secured Party, if required, together with an undated stock, regular limited partnership or general partnership interest, or membership interest power covering such certificate duly executed in blank and with signature guaranteed if Secured Party shall so request, to be held by Secured Party hereunder as additional security for the Mezzanine Loan. Any sums paid upon or in respect of the Pledged Company Interests upon the liquidation or dissolution of any Company shall be paid over to Secured Party to be held by it hereunder as additional security for the Mezzanine Loan, and in case any distribution of capital shall be made on or in respect of the Pledged Company Interests or any property shall be distributed upon or with respect to the Pledged Company Interests pursuant to the recapitalization or reclassification of the capital of any Company or pursuant to the reorganization thereof, the property so distributed shall be delivered to Secured Party to be held by it, subject to the terms hereof, as additional security for the Mezzanine Loan. If any sums of money or property so paid or distributed in respect of the Pledged Company Interests shall be received by Pledgor, Pledgor shall, until such money or property is paid or delivered to Secured Party, hold such 6
money or property in trust for Lender, segregated from other funds of Pledgor, as additional security for the Mezzanine Loan. (b) Without the prior written consent of Secured Party, Pledgor shall not, directly or indirectly, (i) vote to enable, or take any other action to permit, any Company to issue any limited or general partnership interests, membership interests or shares, as applicable, or to issue any other securities convertible into, or to grant the right to purchase or exchange for, any limited or general partnership interests or membership interests, as applicable, in any Company, or (ii) except as permitted by the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, sell, assign, transfer, exchange or otherwise dispose of, or grant any option with respect to, the Pledged Collateral, or (iii) create, incur, authorize or permit to exist any Lien or option in favor of, or any claim of any Person with respect to, any of the Pledged Collateral, or any interest therein, except for the Lien provided for by this Security Agreement. Pledgor shall defend the right, title and interest of Secured Party in and to the Pledged Collateral against the claims and demands of all Persons whomsoever. (c) If any amount payable under or in connection with any of the Pledged Collateral shall be or become evidenced by any promissory note, other instrument or chattel paper, such note, instrument or chattel paper shall be promptly delivered to Secured Party, duly endorsed in a manner satisfactory to Secured Party, to be held as Pledged Collateral pursuant to this Security Agreement. (d) Pledgor (i) will not, and will not permit any Company to, create, incur or permit to exist, (ii) will, and will cause each Company to, defend the Pledged Company Interests against, and (iii) will, and will cause each Company to, take all such other action as is necessary to remove, any Lien or claim on or to the Pledged Company Interests, other than the Liens created hereby. Pledgor will, and will cause each Company to, defend the right, title and interest of Secured Party in, to and under the Pledged Company Interests against the claims and demands of all Persons whomsoever. (e) Pledgor will furnish and will cause each Company to furnish to Secured Party from time to time statements and schedules further identifying and describing the Pledged Company Interests and such other reports in connection with the Pledged Company Interests as Secured Party may reasonably request, all in reasonable detail. (f) Pledgor will not, and will not permit any Company to (unless (i) it shall have given thirty (30) days' prior written notice to such effect to Secured Party and (ii) all action necessary or advisable, in Secured Party's opinion, to protect and perfect the Liens and security interests intended to be created hereunder with respect to the Pledged Company Interests shall have been taken): (A) change the location of its chief executive office or principal place of business from that specified in Section 3 above, or (B) change its name, identity or structure, or (c) reorganize or reincorporate under the laws of another jurisdiction. (g) Pledgor shall pay, and save Secured Party harmless from, any and all liabilities with respect to, or resulting from any delay in paying, any and all stamp, excise, 7
sales or other taxes which may be payable or determined to be payable with respect to any of the Pledged Collateral or in connection with any of the transactions contemplated by this Security Agreement. 5. Indemnification. (a) Each Pledgor shall indemnify and hold harmless Secured Party and its directors, officers, employees, agents and contractors from and against any and all liability, loss, expense, cost or damage which any of them may suffer or incur and which arises out of or results from: (i) this Security Agreement, the grant, pledge and assignment of security hereunder, the receipt of Distributions, and/or the exercise of any right, remedy or power hereunder, except to the extent that it is finally judicially determined that any such liability, loss, expense, cost or damage resulted from the gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct of any indemnified person; or (ii) any claim or any alleged obligation, liability or duty on the part of Secured Party to perform or discharge on behalf of Pledgor any obligation, liability or duty of Pledgor which arises or accrues prior to the date, if ever, on which Secured Party acquires title to the Pledged Collateral by foreclosure, assignment in lieu of foreclosure or otherwise. (b) Each Pledgor shall reimburse each person indemnified under this Section 5 within ten (10) Business Days after demand by Secured Party or such indemnified person for the full amount of any indemnity to which such person may be entitled hereunder, which shall include all of such person's reasonable costs and expenses with respect thereto (including, without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and related expenses as and when incurred), and the full amount of Pledgor's indemnity obligation shall be considered to be a Secured Obligation and shall be secured hereby. The indemnity set forth in this Section 5 shall survive the termination of this Security Agreement. (c) Notwithstanding anything contained herein or in any of the other Mezzanine Loan Documents to the contrary, no Pledgor will be liable for any losses described in this Section 5, which occur following the effective date of a transfer of title to the Pledged Collateral to Secured Party or its Affiliates, in foreclosure or otherwise. (d) The occurrence of an "Event of Default" under and as defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement or in any of the other Mezzanine Loan Documents shall constitute an event of default by each Pledgor hereunder (an "Event of Default"). 6. Remedies. If an Event of Default shall occur and be continuing: (a) Secured Party, without obligation to resort to any other security, right or remedy granted under any other agreement or instrument, shall have the right, in addition 8
to all rights, powers and remedies of a secured party pursuant to the Code and/or any other applicable laws, to, at any time and from time to time, (i) cause any part or all of the Pledged Collateral to be registered in or transferred into the name of Secured Party or into the name of a nominee or nominees, or designee or designees, of Secured Party, and/or (ii) apply the cash, if any, then held by it as Pledged Collateral in reduction of the Secured Obligations in accordance with the terms of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, and/or (iii) sell, resell, assign and deliver, in its sole and absolute discretion, any or all of the Pledged Collateral (whether in whole or in part and at the same or different times) and all right, title and interest, claim and demand therein and right of redemption thereof, at public or private sale, for cash and/or with credit provided by Secured Party, and in connection therewith Secured Party may grant options and may impose conditions such as requiring any purchaser to represent that any "securities" (within the meaning of the Federal securities laws) constituting any part of the Pledged Collateral are being purchased for investment only, and in connection with any of the foregoing described in clause (iii), each Pledgor hereby irrevocably waives and releases any and all rights of redemption. If all or any part of the Pledged Collateral is sold by Secured Party upon credit provided by Secured Party, Secured Party shall not be liable for the failure of the purchaser to purchase or pay for the same and, in the event of any such failure, Secured Party may freely resell such Pledged Collateral. Secured Party may exercise its rights with respect to less than all of the Pledged Collateral, leaving unexercised its rights with respect to the remainder of the Pledged Collateral; such partial exercise shall in no way restrict or jeopardize Secured Party's right to exercise its rights with respect to all or any part of the remaining Pledged Collateral at a later time or times. Secured Party may, instead of the power of sale herein conferred upon it, proceed by a suit or suits at law or in equity to foreclose all or any part of the security interests in the Pledged Collateral and sell the Pledged Collateral, or any portion thereof, under a judgment or decree of a court or courts of competent jurisdiction. (b) Secured Party may exercise, either by itself or by its nominee or designee, in the name and place of any Pledgor, the rights, powers and remedies granted to Secured Party under Section 2(a) hereof, including but not limited to Section 2(a)(ii) hereof, in respect of the Pledged Collateral. Such rights, powers and remedies shall include, without limitation, the right to exercise all voting, consent, managerial and other rights relating to the Pledged Collateral, whether in such Pledgor's name or otherwise, and the right to exercise such Pledgor's rights, if any, of conversion, exchange, subscription or any other rights, privileges or options pertaining to any of the Pledged Collateral, including, without limitation, the right to exchange, at its discretion, any and all of the Pledged Collateral upon the merger, consolidation, reorganization, recapitalization or other readjustment of any Company, all without liability, except to account for property actually received by Secured Party. (c) Each Pledgor hereby irrevocably authorizes and empowers Secured Party, and assigns and transfers to Secured Party, and constitutes and appoints Secured Party and any of its assigns, its true and lawful attorney-in-fact, and as its agent, irrevocably, with full power of substitution for it and in its name, in order to more fully vest in Secured Party the rights and remedies provided for herein, and each Pledgor, further authorizes and empowers Secured Party and any of its assigns, as its attorney-in-fact, and as its agent, irrevocably, with full 9
power of substitution for it and in its name, to proceed from time to time in Pledgor's name in any statutory or non-statutory legal or other proceeding, including but not limited to any bankruptcy proceeding, affecting Pledgor or the Pledged Collateral, and Secured Party, any of its assigns or their respective nominees or designees, may in connection herewith (i) execute and file proofs of claims relating to the Pledged Collateral and vote such claims for all or any portion of the Pledged Collateral (x) for or against any proposal or resolution, (y) for a trustee or trustees or for a receiver or receivers or for a committee of creditors and/or (z) for the acceptance or rejection of any proposed arrangement, plan or reorganization, composition or extension, and Secured Party or its nominee or designee may receive any payment or distribution and give acquittance therefor and may exchange or release any portion or all of the Pledged Collateral; and (ii) endorse any draft or other instrument for the payment of money, execute releases and negotiate settlements. Nothing contained in the foregoing provisions of this Section 6(c) shall be deemed or construed to be a limitation on, or waiver by Secured Party of, any of Secured Party's other rights or remedies hereunder or under any of the other Mezzanine Loan Documents, including, without limitation, pursuant to the provisions of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement. Secured Party shall have no duty to exercise any of the aforesaid rights, privileges or options and shall not be responsible for any failure to do so or delay in so doing. The foregoing powers of attorney are irrevocable and coupled with an interest, and any similar or dissimilar powers heretofore given by any Pledgor in respect of the Pledged Collateral to any other person other than Secured Party are hereby revoked. The power of attorney granted herein shall terminate automatically upon the termination of this Security Agreement in accordance with Section 15 hereof. (d) Secured Party may at any time and from time to time, without notice to, or assent by, any Pledgor or any other person, but without affecting any of the Secured Obligations, in the name of such Pledgor or in the name of Secured Party (i) notify any other party to make payment and performance with respect to any item of Pledged Collateral directly to Secured Party, (ii) extend the time of payment and performance of, compromise or settle for cash, credit or otherwise, and upon any terms and conditions, any obligations owing to such Pledgor, or claims of such Pledgor under any of the Organizational Documents of any Company, (iii) file any claims, and/or commence, maintain or discontinue any actions, suits or other proceedings deemed by Secured Party to be necessary or advisable for the purpose of collecting upon or enforcing any of the Organizational Documents of any Company, and (iv) execute any instrument and do all other things deemed necessary and proper by Secured Party to protect and preserve and realize upon the Pledged Collateral or any portion thereof and the other rights contemplated hereby. (e) Secured Party may without notice to, or the consent of, any Pledgor require (i) that any and all Distributions, and/or other distributions or payments of any type payable to such Pledgor with respect to all or any part of the Pledged Collateral be paid to Secured Party and/or its nominees, and/or (ii) that Secured Party or its nominee, designee, agent or assignee be substituted for such Pledgor or any of its nominees or designees, as officers and/or directors and/or other agents or representatives of any Company. 10
(f) Pursuant to the powers of attorney provided for by Section 6(c) hereof, Secured Party may reasonably take any action and exercise and execute any instrument which it may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes of this Security Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Secured Party shall have the right and power to receive, endorse and collect all checks and other orders for the payment of money made payable to any Pledgor representing any Distribution, interest, payment of principal or other distribution or payment payable in respect of the Pledged Collateral or any part thereof, and for and in the name, place and stead of such Pledgor, to execute endorsements, assignments or other instruments of conveyance or transfer in respect of the Pledged Collateral and any other property which is or may become a part of the Pledged Collateral hereunder. (g) Without limiting any other provision of this Security Agreement, and without waiving or releasing any Pledgor from any obligation or default hereunder, Secured Party shall have the right, but not the obligation, to perform any act or take any action, as it, in its judgment, may deem necessary to cure any Event of Default, cause any term, covenant, condition or obligation required under this Security Agreement to be performed or observed by any Pledgor to be promptly performed or observed on behalf of such Pledgor, or protect the security provided to Secured Party under this Security Agreement. All amounts advanced by, or on behalf of, Secured Party in exercising its rights under this Section 6(g) (including, but not limited to, reasonable legal expenses and disbursements incurred in connection therewith as and when incurred), together with interest thereon at the Default Rate (as defined in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement) from the date of each such advance, shall be payable by the Pledgors to Secured Party within fifteen (15) days after written demand therefor and shall be Secured Obligations under this Security Agreement. 7. Sales of the Pledged Collateral; Strict Foreclosure. (a) To the extent permitted by law, no demand, advertisement or notice, all of which are hereby expressly waived by each Pledgor, shall be required in connection with any sale or other disposition of all or any part of the Pledged Collateral pursuant to Section 6 hereof, except that Secured Party shall give such Pledgor at least ten (10) days' prior written notice of the time and place of any public sale or of the time and the place at which any private sale or other disposition is to be made, which notice such Pledgor hereby agrees is reasonable, and all other demands, advertisements and notices are hereby irrevocably waived by such Pledgor. To the extent permitted by law, Secured Party shall not be obligated to make any sale of the Pledged Collateral if it shall determine not to do so, regardless of the fact that notice of sale may have been given, and Secured Party may without notice or publication adjourn any public or private sale, and such sale may, without further notice, be made at the time and place to which such sale is so adjourned. Subject only to provisions of applicable law which cannot be waived, upon each public or private sale of any portion of or all of the Pledged Collateral, Secured Party (or its nominee or designee) may purchase any or all of the Pledged Collateral being sold, free and clear of and discharged from any trusts, claims, equity or right of redemption of any Pledgor, all of which are hereby waived and released to the extent permitted by law, and may make payment therefor by credit against any of the Secured Obligations in lieu of cash or 11
any other obligations. In the case of any sale, public or private, of any portion of or all of the Pledged Collateral, each Pledgor shall be responsible for, and shall pay within fifteen (15) days after demand therefore, all costs and expenses of every kind relating to the sale and delivery of the Pledged Collateral, including, without limitation, brokers' and reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements and any tax imposed thereon and such obligation to pay such costs and expenses shall be a Secured Obligation. (b) To the extent permitted under applicable law, Secured Party shall not be required to conduct any foreclosure sale of any part of the Pledged Collateral. Secured Party may, in its sole and absolute discretion, retain and acquire for itself and/or its designees or nominees, the Pledged Collateral by, as contemplated by Section 6(a)(i) hereof, instructing each Pledgor to register on its ledgers and books Secured Party's acquisition of the Pledged Collateral and the Certificate which embodies the Pledged Collateral, subject to any rights of such Pledgor to object in accordance with the Code, if such Pledgor has not renounced or waived such rights in accordance with the Code. In connection therewith, Secured Party shall have the right to complete any endorsements in its favor on the Certificates or any other certificated securities or instruments which at any time are part of the Pledged Collateral. 8. Securities Laws. If an Event of Default shall have occurred, Secured Party may, in its sole and absolute discretion, sell all of the Pledged Collateral or any part thereof by private sale in such manner and under such circumstances as Secured Party may deem necessary or advisable in order that such sale may legally be effected without registration pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 or any other Federal, state or local law governing the offering or sale of securities, provided that at least ten (10) days' prior written notice of the time and place of any such sale shall be given to the applicable Pledgor. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, in any such event Secured Party, in its sole and absolute discretion (i) may proceed to make such private sale notwithstanding that a registration statement for the purpose of registering such Pledged Collateral or part thereof shall not have been filed or shall not have become effective such Securities Act, (ii) may approach and negotiate with a single potential purchaser to effect such sale, and (iii) may restrict such sale to a purchaser who will represent and agree that such purchaser is purchasing for its own account, for investment, and not with a view to the distribution or sale of such Pledged Collateral or part thereof. In the event of any such sale, Secured Party shall incur no responsibility or liability for selling all or any part of the Pledged Collateral at a price which Secured Party may in good faith deem reasonable under the circumstances, notwithstanding the possibility that a substantially higher price might be realized if the sale were deferred until after registration as aforesaid. 9. Receipt of Sale Proceeds. Upon any sale of the Pledged Collateral, or any portion thereof, by Secured Party hereunder (whether by virtue of the power of sale herein granted, pursuant to judicial process or otherwise), the receipt of Secured Party or the officer making the sale shall be a sufficient discharge to the purchaser or purchasers of the Pledged Collateral so sold, and such purchaser or 12
purchasers shall not be obligated to see to the application of any part of the purchase money paid over to Secured Party or such officer or be answerable in any way for the misapplication or nonapplication thereof. 10. Costs and Expenses. (a) Each Pledgor agrees that it shall pay to Secured Party: (i) within fifteen (15) days after receipt of an invoice therefor (accompanied by customary supporting material), the amount of any taxes Secured Party may have been required to pay by reason of the security interests created in the Pledged Collateral hereunder (excluding any income taxes, franchise taxes or other taxes based upon Secured Party's income) or any amount necessary to free any of the Pledged Collateral from any lien not created in favor of Secured Party thereon, and (ii) within fifteen (15) days after receipt of an invoice therefor (accompanied by customary supporting material), the amount of any and all reasonable expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel as and when incurred and of any other agents or experts and any transfer taxes or other taxes or governmental charges or fees (whether now existing or hereinafter enacted), Secured Party may incur in connection with (a) the enforcement of this Security Agreement, including such reasonable expenses as are incurred to preserve the value of the Pledged Collateral or the validity, effectiveness, enforceability, perfection, priority or value of any security interest, (b) after the occurrence of an Event of Default, the collection, sale or other disposition of any of the Pledged Collateral, (c) the exercise by Secured Party of any of the rights and/or remedies conferred upon it hereunder, or (d) any Event of Default. (b) Any amount required to be paid by any Pledgor under Section 10(a) above which is not paid when due shall bear interest for each day from the date advanced by or on behalf of the Secured Party until repaid by such Pledgor at the Default Rate. All obligations and liabilities of each Pledgor under Section 10(a) above and this Section 10(b) shall be Secured Obligations under this Security Agreement. 11. Application of Pledgor's Pledged Collateral. The Pledged Collateral and any proceeds thereof (including, without limitation, any proceeds from the sale of all or any portion of the Pledged Collateral and all Distributions) now or at any time hereafter received or retained by Secured Party pursuant to the provisions of this Security Agreement shall, after the occurrence of an Event of Default and acceleration of the Mezzanine Loan, be applied by Secured Party in the following order of priority: first, to the payment of all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the administration and enforcement of, or the preservation of any rights under, this Security Agreement (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees) and, second, to the payment of the Secured 13
Obligations in such order and manner as Secured Party may determine in its sole and absolute discretion. 12. Further Assurances. Each Pledgor agrees that, at its sole expense and in such manner and form as Secured Party reasonably may require at any time and from time to time, it shall execute, deliver, file and/or record any financing statement, specific assignment or other writing or instrument, and take any other action that Secured Party may deem reasonably necessary or desirable, or that Secured Party may reasonably request, in order to create, preserve or validate any security interests created hereunder or the priority thereof or to enable Secured Party to exercise and enforce its rights hereunder with respect to any of the Pledged Collateral. Each Pledgor hereby authorizes Secured Party to execute and file at any time or from time to time, in the name of such Pledgor, such UCC financing statements and other similar instruments as Secured Party in its sole discretion may deem necessary or desirable to perfect and continue the security interests created hereunder. 13. Attorney-In-Fact. Secured Party is hereby appointed the attorney-in-fact, with full power of substitution, of each Pledgor for the purpose of carrying out the provisions hereof from time to time, after an Event of Default, in Secured Party's discretion, and taking any action and executing any instruments (including, without limitation, financing or continuation statements, conveyances, assignments and transfers) which Secured Party may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes hereof, which appointment as attorney-in-fact is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable. Each Pledgor shall indemnify and hold harmless Secured Party from and against any liability, loss, cost, expense and/or damage which it may incur in the exercise and performance, in good faith, of any of Secured Party's powers and/or duties specifically set forth herein. 14. Waivers. No Pledgor shall be entitled to any notices of any nature whatsoever from Secured Party except with respect to matters for which this Security Agreement or the other Mezzanine Loan Documents specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Secured Party to Pledgor and except with respect to matters for which Pledgor is not, pursuant to applicable Legal Requirements, permitted to waive the giving of notice. To extent permitted by law, Pledgor hereby expressly waives the right to receive any notice from Secured Party with respect to any matter for which this Security Agreement or the other Mezzanine Loan Documents does not specifically and expressly provide for the giving of notice by Secured Party to Pledgor. No delay or omission on the part of Secured Party in exercising any right hereunder shall operate as a waiver of that right or of any other right hereunder. Any waiver of any right on any one occasion shall not be construed as a bar to or waiver of that or any other right on any future occasion. No course of dealing between any Pledgor and Secured Party nor any failure to exercise, nor any delay in exercising, on the part of Secured Party, any right, power or privilege hereunder or with 14
respect to any of the Secured Obligations shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder or otherwise with respect to the Secured Obligations preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. 15. Termination. This Security Agreement and the security interests in and lien on each Pledgor's Pledged Collateral created hereby shall terminate upon the indefeasible payment and satisfaction in full of all of the Secured Obligations, except contingent indemnity obligations not then due and payable. 16. Integration Clause. This Security Agreement, together with all of the other Mezzanine Loan Documents, represents the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, and all prior or contemporaneous agreements, understandings or other communications, oral or written, regarding the subject matter which are not expressed herein or therein shall be of no force and effect. 17. Amendments and Waivers In Writing Only. This Security Agreement shall not be amended or otherwise modified except by a further written agreement executed and delivered by all of the parties hereto. No waiver, express or implied, of any of the provisions hereof shall be effective unless embodied in a written document executed by the party hereto who is charged with such waiver. 18. Successors and Assigns. Except as may be expressly permitted in the Mezzanine Loan Agreement, neither this Security Agreement, nor any right title and/or interest herein, shall be assigned or otherwise transferred by any Pledgor without the prior written consent of Secured Party. Subject to the preceding sentence, this Security Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. 19. Notices. All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals or other communications (collectively, "Notices") required or permitted to be given hereunder to Secured Party or any Pledgor or which are given to Secured Party or any Pledgor with respect to this Security Agreement shall be in writing and otherwise given in accordance with Section 11.6 of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement. 15
20. No Duty to Preserve Pledgor's Pledged Collateral. To the extent permitted by applicable law, Secured Party shall not have any duty as to the collection or protection of the Pledged Collateral or any income thereon or payments with respect thereto, or as to the preservation of any rights pertaining thereto, beyond exercising reasonable care with respect to any cash or any Certificate that is actually in Secured Party's possession pursuant hereto. 21. No Release. The obligations of each Pledgor under this Security Agreement shall be absolute and unconditional and shall remain in full force and effect without regard to, and, subject to Section 15 hereof, shall not be released, suspended, discharged, terminated or otherwise affected by, any circumstances or occurrence whatsoever, including, without limitation: (a) any renewal, extension, amendment or modification of, or addition or supplement to or deletion from, any of the Mezzanine Loan Documents or the Mortgage Loan Documents or any other instrument or agreement referred to therein, or any assignment or transfer of any thereof; (b) any waiver, consent, extension, indulgence or other action or inaction under or in respect of any of the Mezzanine Loan Documents or the Mortgage Loan Documents or any exercise or non-exercise of any right, remedy, power or privilege under or in respect of any of the Mezzanine Loan Documents or the Mortgage Loan Documents, respectively; (c) any furnishing of any additional security to Secured Party or any acceptance thereof or any sale, exchange, release, surrender or realization of or upon any security by Secured Party; or (d) any invalidity, irregularity or unenforceability of all or part of the Secured Obligations or of any security therefor. 22. Waiver of Marshalling of Assets Defense. To the fullest extent that each Pledgor may legally do so, each Pledgor hereby waives all rights to a marshalling of the assets of Pledgor, and/or any others with interests in Pledgor, and/or of the Pledged Collateral, or to a sale in inverse order of alienation in the event of foreclosure of the interests hereby created, and agree not to assert any right under any laws pertaining to the marshalling of assets, sales in inverse order of alienation or any other matters whatsoever to defeat, reduce or affect the right of Secured Party to a sale of the Pledged Collateral for the collection of the Secured Obligations without any prior or different resort for collection. 23. General Provisions Relating To Secured Party's Remedies. Without limitation of any right or remedy of Secured Party in this Security Agreement, each Pledgor acknowledges and agrees that upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default (i) the rights and remedies of Secured Party herein provided or provided under any of the other Mezzanine Loan Documents shall be cumulative, and shall be in addition to and not exclusive of or in limitation of any rights and remedies provided by applicable law, including, without limitation, the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Code or any other applicable laws or in an equity proceeding, (ii) Secured Party shall have the 16
right to pursue all of its rights and remedies in one proceeding, or separately and independently in separate proceedings, in each case as Secured Party, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall determine from time to time, (iii) Secured Party shall not be required to either marshal assets or sell the Pledged Collateral in any inverse order of alienation, and shall not be subjected to any "one action" or "election of remedies" law or rule, (iv) the exercise by Secured Party of any remedies against any of the Pledged Collateral shall not impede Secured Party from subsequently or simultaneously exercising remedies against any other collateral or security, and (v), subject to Section 15 hereof, all liens and other rights, remedies and privileges provided to Secured Party in this Security Agreement and the other Mezzanine Loan Documents or otherwise shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no event terminate prior to the exhaustion by Secured Party of all of its remedies against the Pledged Collateral and Secured Party's foreclosure, sale and/or other realization upon all of the Pledged Collateral. 24. Limited Recourse. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, each Pledgor's recourse liability under or with respect to this Security Agreement shall be limited to the identical extent provided in Section 11.22 of the Mezzanine Loan Agreement. 25. Governing Law. This Security Agreement shall be governed and construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of New York, without regard to its conflicts of law principles. [NO FURTHER TEXT ON THIS PAGE] 17
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Security Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the date first above written. PLEDGOR: THI OF OHIO SNFS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JOHN E. BAUER ---------------------------------- Name: John E. Bauer Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND SNFS I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ---------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President THI OF MARYLAND SNFS II, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company By: /s/ JEFFREY A. BARNHILL ---------------------------------- Name: Jeffrey A. Barnhill Title: Vice-President [Signatures continued on next page]
SECURED PARTY: VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership By: Ventas, Inc. a Delaware corporation, its sole general partner By: /s/ T. RICHARD RINEY ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President/General Counsel


