FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20021126141817.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 __________________________________ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): November 25, 2002 VENTAS, INC. ------------------------------------------------------ (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-10989 61-1055020 -------- ------- ---------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiciton of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207-1642 -------------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (502) 357-9000 -------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Item 5. Other Events. ------------- On November 25, 2002, Ventas, Inc. (the "Company"), together with Ventas TRS, LLC, a newly formed, wholly owned indirect subsidiary of the Company ("Ventas TRS"), and certain of the Company's other subsidiaries executed (i) a Supplemental Indenture (the "2009 Supplemental Indenture") relating to the 8 3/4% Senior Notes due 2009 (the "2009 Notes") of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership ("Ventas Realty") and Ventas Capital Corporation ("Ventas Capital"), which supplements the Indenture (the "2009 Indenture"), dated as of April 17, 2002, by and among Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital, as Issuers, the Company and Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C. ("Ventas LLC"), as Guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, as previously supplemented; and (ii) a Supplemental Indenture (the "2012 Supplemental Indenture," and, together with the 2009 Supplemental Indenture, the "Supplemental Indentures") relating to the 9% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "2012 Notes," and, together with the 2009 Notes, the "Notes") of Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital, which supplements the Indenture (the "2012 Indenture," and together with the 2009 Indenture, the "Indentures"), dated as of April 17, 2002, by and among Ventas Realty and Ventas Capital, as Issuers, the Company and Ventas LLC, as Guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee, as previously supplemented. Under each of the Indentures, the Company is required to cause newly acquired or created subsidiaries to become Guarantors (as such term is defined in the Indentures) of the Notes and to cause such newly acquired or created subsidiaries to execute a supplemental indenture, subject to certain exceptions. Ventas TRS was formed on November 8, 2002 and the Supplemental Indentures were executed in order to fulfill the Company's obligations under the Indentures with respect to Ventas TRS. The 2009 Supplemental Indenture and the 2012 Supplemental Indenture are included as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, respectively. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and stockholders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements.
Actual future results and trends for the Company may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Factors that may affect the plans or results of the Company include, without limitation, (a) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred") and certain of its affiliates to continue to meet and/or perform their obligations under their contractual arrangements with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, including without limitation the lease agreements and various agreements (the "Spin Agreements") entered into by the Company and Kindred at the time of the Company's spin-off of Kindred on May 1, 1998 (the "1998 Spin Off"), as such agreements may have been amended and restated in connection with Kindred's emergence from bankruptcy on April 20, 2001, (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred to continue to meet and/or perform its obligation to indemnify and defend the Company for all litigation and other claims relating to the healthcare operations and other assets and liabilities transferred to Kindred in the 1998 Spin Off, (c) the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and duties under the leases and other agreements with the Company, and their existing credit agreements, (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy, (e) the nature and extent of future competition, (f) the extent of future healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies and procedures, (g) increases in the cost of borrowing for the Company, (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients, (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company, (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, (k) the ability of the Company to pay down, refinance, restructure, and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due, (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of the Company's interest rate swap agreements and the ability of the Company to satisfy its obligation to post cash collateral if required to do so under one of these interest rate swap agreements, (m) the ability and willingness of Atria, Inc. ("Atria") to continue to meet and honor its contractual arrangements with the Company and Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership entered into in connection with the Company's spin-off of its assisted living operations and related assets and liabilities to Atria in August 1996, (n) the ability and willingness of the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations, including without limitation, the risk that the Company may fail to qualify as a REIT due to its ownership of common stock in Kindred, (o) the outcome of the audit being conducted by the Internal Revenue Service for the Company's tax years ending December 31, 1997 and 1998, (p) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ending December 31, 2002, (q) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants, (r) the impact on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of Kindred and the Company's other operators resulting from increased operating costs and uninsured liabilities for professional liability claims, particularly in the state of Florida and (s) the value of the Company's common stock in Kindred and the limitations on the ability of the Company
to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its common stock in Kindred arising out of the securities laws and the registration rights agreement the Company entered into with Kindred and certain of the holders of the common stock in Kindred. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. ---------------------------------- (a) Financial statements of businesses acquired. Not applicable. (b) Pro forma financial information. Not applicable. (c) Exhibits: 99.1 Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2002, by and among Ventas TRS, LLC, as a Guaranteeing Subsidiary, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, as Issuers, Ventas, Inc., Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C. and Ventas Healthcare Properties, Inc., as Guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee. 99.2 Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2002, by and among Ventas TRS, LLC, as a Guaranteeing Subsidiary, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, as Issuers, Ventas, Inc., Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C. and Ventas Healthcare Properties, Inc., as Guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. VENTAS, INC. (Registrant) Date: November 26,2002 By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President and General Counsel
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description ------- ----------- 99.1 Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2002, by and among Ventas TRS, LLC, as a Guaranteeing Subsidiary, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, as Issuers, Ventas, Inc., Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C. and Ventas Healthcare Properties, Inc., as Guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee. 99.2 Supplemental Indenture, dated as of November 25, 2002, by and among Ventas TRS, LLC, as a Guaranteeing Subsidiary, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, as Issuers, Ventas, Inc., Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C. and Ventas Healthcare Properties, Inc., as Guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee.

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of November 25, 2002, by and among Ventas TRS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Guaranteeing Subsidiary"), Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and Ventas Capital Corporation, a Delaware corporation, as Issuers under the Indenture referred to herein, Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company, and Ventas Healthcare Properties, Inc, a Delaware corporation, as Guarantors under the Indenture referred to herein as heretofore supplemented, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee under the Indenture referred to herein (the "Trustee"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, the Issuers have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of April 17, 2002 providing for the issuance of 8 3/4% Senior Notes due 2009 (the "Notes") and a Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 11, 2002; WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Issuers' Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the "Note Guarantee"); and WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows: 1. CAPITALIZED TERMS. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. 2. AGREEMENT TO GUARANTEE. The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees as follows: (a) Along with all Guarantors, to jointly and severally Guarantee to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, the Notes or the obligations of the Issuers hereunder or thereunder, that: (i) the principal of, and premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Issuers to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
(ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. (b) The obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Issuers, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor, other than payment in full of all Obligations under the Notes. (c) The following is hereby waived: diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Issuers, any right to require a proceeding first against the Issuers, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever. (d) This Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the Indenture, and the Guaranteeing Subsidiary accepts all obligations of a Guarantor under the Indenture. (e) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Issuers, the Guarantors, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Issuers or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. (f) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. (g) As between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee. (h) The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee. 2
(i) Pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Indenture, after giving effect to any maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities that are relevant under any applicable Bankruptcy or fraudulent conveyance laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article 10 of the Indenture, this new Note Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount permissible such that the obligations of such Guarantor under this Note Guarantee will not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. 3. EXECUTION AND DELIVERY. Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantees shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Note Guarantee. 4. GUARANTEEING SUBSIDIARY mAY CONSOLIDATE, eTC. ON CERTAIN TERMS. (a) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary may not sell or otherwise dispose of all substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person, other than the Issuers or another Guarantor unless: (i) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and (ii) either (A) subject to Sections 10.04 and 10.05 of the Indenture, the Person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger unconditionally assumes all the obligations of that Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, under the Notes, the Indenture and the Note Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; or (B) the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation, Section 4.11 thereof. (b) In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the Note Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Note Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable under the Indenture which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Issuers and delivered to the Trustee. All the Note Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under the Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. 3
(c) Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 and Section 10.05 of Article 10 of the Indenture, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in the Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Issuers or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Issuers or another Guarantor. 5. RELEASES. (a) In the event of any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all of the capital stock of any Guarantor, in each case to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transaction) a Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc., then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Note Guarantee; provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.11 of the Indenture. Upon delivery by the Issuers to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Issuers in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.11 of the Indenture, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Note Guarantee. (b) Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under the Indenture as provided in Article 10 of the Indenture. 6. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Issuers or any Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, any Note Guarantees, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. Such waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws and it is the view of the Commission that such a waiver is against public policy. 7. NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN. THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. 4
8. COUNTERPARTS. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. 9. EFFECT OF HEADINGS. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 10. THE TRUSTEE. The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Issuers. 5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written. VENTAS TRS, LLC By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP By: VENTAS, INC., its general partner By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary VENTAS, INC. By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary VENTAS CAPITAL CORPORATION By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary VENTAS LP REALTY, L.L.C. By: VENTAS, INC., its sole member By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary [SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE] 6
VENTAS HEALTHCARE PROPERTIES, INC. By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: /s/ Robert T. Jones ------------------------------ Name: Robert T. Jones Title: Vice President and Trust Officer 7

SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE (this "Supplemental Indenture"), dated as of November 25, 2002, by and among Ventas TRS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the "Guaranteeing Subsidiary"), Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and Ventas Capital Corporation, a Delaware corporation, as Issuers under the Indenture referred to herein, Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company, and Ventas Healthcare Properties, Inc, a Delaware corporation, as Guarantors under the Indenture referred to herein as heretofore supplemented, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee under the Indenture referred to herein (the "Trustee"). W I T N E S S E T H WHEREAS, the Issuers have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of April 17, 2002 providing for the issuance of 9% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Notes") and a Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 11, 2002; WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Issuers' Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the "Note Guarantee"); and WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture. NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows: 1. CAPITALIZED TERMS. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. 2. AGREEMENT TO GUARANTEE. The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees as follows: (a) Along with all Guarantors, to jointly and severally Guarantee to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, the Notes or the obligations of the Issuers hereunder or thereunder, that: (i) the principal of, and premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Issuers to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
(ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. (b) The obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Issuers, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor, other than payment in full of all Obligations under the Notes. (c) The following is hereby waived: diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Issuers, any right to require a proceeding first against the Issuers, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever. (d) This Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the Indenture, and the Guaranteeing Subsidiary accepts all obligations of a Guarantor under the Indenture. (e) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Issuers, the Guarantors, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Issuers or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect. (f) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. (g) As between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, (x) the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and (y) in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee. (h) The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee. 2
(i) Pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Indenture, after giving effect to any maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities that are relevant under any applicable Bankruptcy or fraudulent conveyance laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article 10 of the Indenture, this new Note Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount permissible such that the obligations of such Guarantor under this Note Guarantee will not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance. 3. EXECUTION AND DELIVERY. Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantees shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Note Guarantee. 4. GUARANTEEING SUBSIDIARY MAY CONSOLIDATE, ETC. ON CERTAIN TERMS. (a) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary may not sell or otherwise dispose of all substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person, other than the Issuers or another Guarantor unless: (i) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and (ii) either (A) subject to Sections 10.04 and 10.05 of the Indenture, the Person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger unconditionally assumes all the obligations of that Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, under the Notes, the Indenture and the Note Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; or (B) the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation, Section 4.11 thereof. (b) In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the Note Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Note Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable under the Indenture which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Issuers and delivered to the Trustee. All the Note Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under the Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof. 3
(c) Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 and Section 10.05 of Article 10 of the Indenture, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in the Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Issuers or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Issuers or another Guarantor. 5. RELEASES. (a) In the event of any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all of the capital stock of any Guarantor, in each case to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transaction) a Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc., then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Note Guarantee; provided that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.11 of the Indenture. Upon delivery by the Issuers to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Issuers in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.11 of the Indenture, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Note Guarantee. (b) Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under the Indenture as provided in Article 10 of the Indenture. 6. NO RECOURSE AGAINST OTHERS. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Issuers or any Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, any Note Guarantees, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. Such waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws and it is the view of the Commission that such a waiver is against public policy. 7. NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN. THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY. 4
8. COUNTERPARTS. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement. 9. EFFECT OF HEADINGS. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. 10. THE TRUSTEE. The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Issuers. 5
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written. VENTAS TRS, LLC By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP By: VENTAS, INC., its general partner By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary VENTAS, INC. By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary VENTAS CAPITAL CORPORATION By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary VENTAS LP REALTY, L.L.C. By: VENTAS, INC., its sole member By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary [SIGNATURE PAGES CONTINUE] 6
VENTAS HEALTHCARE PROPERTIES, INC. By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION, as Trustee By: /s/ Robert T. Jones ------------------------------ Name: Robert T. Jones Title: Vice President and Trust Officer 7


