FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20021016171950.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): October 14, 2002 VENTAS, INC. --------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-10989 61-1055020 --------------- ----------- ------------------- (State or other (Commission (IRS Employer jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) incorporation) 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207-1642 ---------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (502) 357-9000 -------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Item 5. Other Events. ------------ On October 14, 2002, the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") granted a waiver (the "Waiver") from the 9% ownership limitation provisions of Article XII of the Company's Certification of Incorporation, as amended, to Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc. ("C&S"), an investment advisor registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, C&S's investment advisory clients (the "Advisory Clients") and any other person who would constitute, along with C&S and any of the Advisory Clients, a "group" as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (collectively, the "C&S Group"). Under the Waiver, the C&S Group may beneficially own, in the aggregate, up to 12.50%, in number of shares or value, of the common stock of the Company on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Waiver. The Waiver is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Concurrently with the execution of the Waiver, the Company amended (the "Seventh Amendment") its rights agreement, dated as of July 20, 1993 (as amended, the "Rights Agreement"), between the Company and National City Bank, as Rights Agent, as amended by the First Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of August 11, 1995, as amended by the Second Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of February 1, 1998, as amended by the Third Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of July 27, 1998, as amended by the Fourth Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of April 15, 1999, as amended by the Fifth Amendment to the Rights Agreement, dated as of December 15, 1999, and as amended by the Sixth Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of May 22, 2000. The Seventh Amendment excludes the C&S Group from the definition of "Acquiring Person" under the Right Agreement until such time as the Cohen & Steers Group becomes the Beneficial Owner of more than 12.50% of the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company. The Seventh Amendment is incorporated by reference as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain,
and stockholders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements. Actual future results and trends for the Company may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"). Factors that may affect the plans or results of the Company include, without limitation, (a) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred") and certain of its affiliates to continue to meet and/or perform their obligations under their contractual arrangements with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, including without limitation the lease agreements and various agreements (the "Spin Agreements) entered into by the Company and Kindred at the time of the Company's spin-off of Kindred on May 1, 1998 (the "1998 Spin Off"), as such agreements may have been amended and restated in connection with Kindred's emergence from bankruptcy on April 20, 2001, (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred to continue to meet and/or perform its obligation to indemnify and defend the Company for all litigation and other claims relating to the healthcare operations and other assets and liabilities transferred to Kindred in the 1998 Spin Off, (c) the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and duties under the leases and other agreements with the Company, and their existing credit agreements, (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy, (e) the nature and extent of future competition, (f) the extent of future healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies and procedures, (g) increases in the cost of borrowing for the Company, (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients, (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company, (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, (k) the ability of the Company to pay down, refinance, restructure, and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due, (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of the Company's interest rate swap agreements and the ability of the Company to satisfy its obligation to post cash collateral if required to do so under one of these interest rate swap agreements, (m) the ability and willingness of Atria, Inc. ("Atria") to continue to meet and honor its contractual arrangements with the Company and Ventas Realty Limited Partnership, entered into in connection with the Company's spin-off of its assisted living operations and related assets and liabilities to Atria in August 1996, (n) the ability and willingness of the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations, including without limitation, the risk that the Company may fail to qualify as a REIT due to its ownership of common stock in Kindred, (o) the outcome of the audit being conducted by the Internal Revenue Service for the Company's tax years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998, (p) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2002, (q) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants and (r) the value of the Company's common stock in Kindred and the limitations on the ability of the Company to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its common stock in Kindred arising out of the
securities laws and the registration rights agreement the Company entered into with Kindred and certain of the holders of the common stock in Kindred. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. --------------------------------- (a) Financial statements of businesses acquired. Not applicable. (b) Pro forma financial information. Not applicable. (c) Exhibits: 99.1 Letter Agreement relating to a waiver of the provisions of Article XII of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company in favor of Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc., dated October 14, 2002. 99.2 Seventh Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of October 14, 2002, between the Company and National City Bank, as Rights Agent (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 8 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A filed on October 16, 2002).
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. VENTAS, INC. (Registrant) Date: October 16, 2002 By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President and General Counsel
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description ------- ----------- 99.1 Letter Agreement relating to a waiver of the provisions of Article XII of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company in favor of Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc., dated October 14, 2002. 99.2 Seventh Amendment to Rights Agreement, dated as of October 14, 2002, between the Company and National City Bank, as Rights Agent (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 8 to Registration Statement on Form 8-A/A filed on October 16, 2002).

[Ventas, Inc. Letterhead] T. Richard Riney Executive Vice President and General Counsel Direct Dial: 502-357-9020 October 14, 2002 Mr. Joseph M. Harvey Senior Vice President Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc. 757 Third Avenue New York, NY 10017 RE: Request by Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc. for a Waiver of the Provisions of Article XII of the Certificate of Incorporation of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") --------------------------------------------------------------- Dear Mr. Harvey: This letter is in response to the request by Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc. ("C&S") for a waiver of the provisions of Article XII of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company with respect to C&S as described in the letter from C&S to the Company dated October 14, 2002, which is attached hereto (the "Request Letter"). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meaning set forth in the Request Letter. The Board hereby Waives, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this letter and the Request Letter, the application of Article XII to C&S with respect to the provisions thereof limiting Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock of the Company for the Waiver Period. The breach of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained in the Request Letter, or the failure to comply with the covenants and agreements in the Request Letter, shall cause the Waiver granted in this letter to become retroactively null and void, and shall retroactively cause any Common Shares owned by C&S in excess of the otherwise applicable 9.0% Ownership Limit to become designated Excess Shares under Article XII, in addition to any other remedy available to the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ownership of the Company's Common Shares by C&S shall remain subject to the otherwise applicable 9.0% Ownership Limit in the event that such ownership should result in (i) any "individual" (within the meaning of Section 542(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), as modified by Section 856(h) of the Code) owning (after taking into account the constructive ownership rules of Section 544 of the Code, as modified by Section 856(h) of the Code) in excess of 9.0% of the Common Shares
Mr. Joseph M. Harvey October 14, 2002 Page 2 or (ii) any 10.0% Company Shareholder, alone or in combination with other 10.0% Company Shareholders, owning (either directly or by operation of the attribution rules of Section 318 of the Code, as modified by Section 856(d)(5) of the Code), any interest in the stock of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. or in the stock, assets, or net profits of any other present or future tenant of the Company. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the term "10.0% Company Shareholder" means a person who, but for the 9.0% Ownership Limit, would beneficially own 10.0% or more of the total combined voting power, total number, or total value of all of shares of stock of the Company, either directly or by operation of the attribution rules of Section 318 of the Code, as modified by Section 856(d)(5) of the Code. If this letter accurately sets forth our understanding, please sign the letter where indicated below and return a signed copy to me. This letter shall be of no force and effect, and may be revoked at any point in time prior to the Company's receipt of a signed copy from C&S. Very truly yours, VENTAS, INC. By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President and General Counsel ACCEPTED AND AGREED This 14th day of October, 2002 COHEN & STEERS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, INC. By: /s/ Joseph M. Harvey ---------------------------------- Name: Joseph M. Harvey Senior Vice President Attachment -2-
[Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc. Letterhead] October 14, 2002 Board of Directors Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207-1642 Re: Request by Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc. for Waiver to Provisions of Article XII of the Certificate of Incorporation of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") ---------------------------------------------------------------- To the Directors of Ventas, Inc.: Cohen & Steers Capital Management, Inc. ("C&S") is an investment advisor registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. As of date hereof, C&S has purchased on behalf of its investment advisory clients (the "Advisory Clients"), in the aggregate, 6,834,255 shares of the outstanding common stock, (the "Common Shares") of the Company (the "Shares"). Pursuant to advisory contracts with the Advisory Clients, C&S exercises sole investment discretion over such shares and in certain cases sole voting discretion. No other person who would constitute, along with C&S and with any one or more of the Advisory Clients, a "group" as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) ("Section 13(d)") of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") owns any shares of the Company. Because that portion of the Shares which exceed the Ownership Limit (capitalized terms in this letter are used as defined in Article XII of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company) is subject to being designated as Excess Shares under Article XII, C&S requests that the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") grant a waiver to C&S and the Advisory Clients from certain of the provisions of Article XII that relate to limitations upon ownership of Common Shares, so that C&S, its Advisory Clients, and any other Person who would constitute, along with C&S and any Advisory Client, a "group" as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, may Beneficially Own, in the aggregate, up to 12.50%, in number of shares or value, of the Common Shares during the period (the "Waiver Period") from the date hereof, until the expiration of the Waiver Period (the "Waiver Expiration Date") on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein. In consideration and as a condition to such waiver, C&S agrees, on behalf of itself and with respect to assets C&S manages for the Advisory Clients, that it shall not take any of the actions described below with respect to any Additional Shares for so long as such shares shall constitute Additional Shares or until any of the Events (as defined below) shall occur. "Additional Shares" shall mean the number of Common Shares owned by all of C&S, the Advisory Clients and any other persons who would constitute, along with C&S and any Advisory Client, a "group" under Section 13(d), that exceeds 9.0% of the Common Shares of the
Company outstanding. The undersigned has the legal authority to bind C&S and the Beneficial Owners of C&S to the terms of this letter and the related Waiver. This letter does not request a waiver in respect of any Common Shares held, owned, or Beneficially Owned by any Advisory Client that are not managed by C&S. Nothing in this letter or the Waiver shall restrict the application of Article XII to such other Common Shares, it being understood that all such other Common Shares remain subject to Article XII of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company. Effective as of the date hereof, this letter amends and restates the waiver request letter dated February 25, 2002, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A (the "Prior Letter"). In support of its request for the Waiver, C&S makes the following representations, warranties, covenants and agreements: 1. Expiration of Waiver. The Waiver shall expire, and the Waiver Period shall terminate, on the first to occur of (a) on the date that C&S Beneficially Owns less than the Ownership Limitation, (b) a breach by C&S of any of the representations, warranties, covenants or agreements contained in this Request Letter or (c) ninety (90) days after C&S's receipt of notice from the Company terminating the Waiver. Upon expiration of the Waiver and the Waiver Period with respect to any Additional Shares, such Additional Shares shall automatically be designated as "Excess Shares" under Article XII. Such designation will be effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of the relevant event. C&S understands and acknowledges that the "Excess Share" designation shall be in addition to any other remedy that the Company may have upon a breach by C&S of any representation, warranty, covenant or agreement contained herein. 2. Representations and Warranties. C&S represents and warrants to the Company as follows: a) As of the date hereof, and with respect to any Common Stock under C&S management, the Advisory Clients Beneficially Owned in the aggregate 6,834,255 shares of the outstanding Common Stock of the Company. C&S is not in a partnership (as determined for federal income tax purposes) composed of C&S and one or more Advisory Clients, and C&S' Advisory Clients do not own more than 9.9% of C&S or any corporation controlled or managed by C&S. b) No other person who would constitute, along with C&S, a "group" as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3) ("Section 13(d)") of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), owns any shares of Common Stock. c) None of C&S, C&S' Advisory Clients and any other person who would constitute, along with C&S, a "group" as that term is used for purposes of Section 2
13(d)(3) Beneficially Own any of the stock, warrants, options, convertible debt or any other rights to acquire the stock of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. 3. Covenants Regarding Ownership Attributes of the Additional Shares. During the Waiver Period, C&S agrees that it shall not take any of the following actions with respect to any Additional Shares (it being understood that the limitations of this Section 3 shall not apply to Shares that are not Additional Shares): a) Solicit proxies from stockholders of the Company, the power to vote, become a "participant" in any "election contest" (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of the Exchange Act), with respect to the Company, or make any communication (other than as required by law) referred to in Rule 14a-1(l)(2)(iv) of the Exchange Act in connection with any election contest or other vote by stockholders of the Company or otherwise that is contrary to or conflicts with actions taken or omitted or to be omitted by the Board; b) Seek or vote for the removal of any member of the Board, except removal "for cause" as such term is used under the Delaware General Corporation Law; c) Vote for any individual nominated for election to the Board thereof other than those individuals nominated by the Board or a Committee thereof; d) Call or seek to have called any meeting of the stockholders of the Company; e) Otherwise act, alone or in concert with others to (i) solicit, propose, seek to effect or negotiate with any other person with respect to (A) any business combination with the Company or (B) any restructuring, recapitalization or similar transaction of the Company, (ii) solicit, propose, seek to effect or negotiate with any other person with respect to, or announce an intent to make, any tender offer or exchange offer for any voting securities of the Company, or (iii) assist, participate in, facilitate or solicit any effort or attempt by any persons to do or seek to do any of the foregoing; or f) Form, join or participate in a "group" (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act) with respect to any of the matters described above. 4. Additional Covenants Regarding Ownership of Common Stock. During the Waiver Period: a) C&S shall limit the aggregate Beneficial Ownership by it, any Advisory Client and any Person who would constitute, along with C&S or C&S with any such Person or Advisory Client, a "group", as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, of the Company's Common Stock to no more than 12.50% of the shares of Common Stock outstanding. 3
b) Neither 10% or greater Beneficial Owners of C&S, C&S nor any of its Advisory Clients, taken separately or taken together in any combination with C&S, have been during 2000, 2001 or 2002, are, and shall not in the future be, partners in any partnership between or among C&S and any one or more of them as determined for federal income tax purposes which partnership Beneficially Owns any of the Company's Common Stock. With respect to assets under C&S' management, no single Advisory Client or combination of Advisory Clients with a mutual 10.0% or greater owner or any Person in control of them, Beneficially Owns or will at any time in the future Beneficially Own more than 9.0% of the Company's Common Stock outstanding. Neither C&S nor any Advisory Client, with respect to assets under C&S' management, currently Beneficially Owns, and will not Beneficially Own, more than 9.0% of the Company's Common Stock outstanding (excluding for this purpose Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock in excess of such amounts to the extent such Beneficial Ownership results solely from it being treated, along with the Advisory Clients, as a "group" under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act). c) C&S, its Advisory Clients and any Person who would constitute, along with C&S or any Advisory Client, a "group" under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, shall comply with the terms of Article XII, except as expressly waived by the Board. d) During the term of the Waiver, none of C&S, C&S' Advisory Clients and any other person who would constitute, along with C&S, a "group" as that term is used for purposes of Section 13(d)(3), shall Beneficially Own any of the stock, warrants, options, convertible debt or any other rights to acquire the stock of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. or, after written notice from the Company to C&S of a proposed new tenant after the date hereof, any other such tenant of the Company. e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this letter or the related waiver, if any 10.0% or greater Beneficial Owners of C&S, C&S, its Advisory Clients, or any other person who would, along with C&S or the Beneficial Owners of C&S or any of them, either constitute a "group" under Section 13(d)(3) or a partnership for federal income tax purposes, Beneficially Owns (excluding for this purpose Beneficial Ownership of Common Stock that results solely from being treated as part of a "group" under Section 13(d)) more than 9.9% of the stock of the Company while Beneficially Owning, singly or taken together in any combination, any of the stock, warrants, options, convertible debt or any other rights to acquire the stock of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. or, after written notice from the Company to C&S of a proposed new tenant after the date hereof, any other such tenant of the Company, the Additional Shares owned will be automatically designated as "Excess Shares" under Article XII. Such designation will be effective as of the close of business on the business day prior to the date of the relevant event. f) This letter does not request a waiver in respect of any Common Shares held, owned, or Beneficially Owned by any Advisory Client that are not managed by C&S. Nothing in this letter or the Waiver shall restrict the application of Article XII to 4
such other Common Shares, it being understood that all such other Common Shares remain subject to Article XII of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Company. 5. Breach of Representations and Warranties. C&S understands that the breach of any representation, warranty or covenant contained herein or the failure to comply with its covenants and undertakings in this letter, in addition to any other remedy available to the Company, subjects the Additional Shares to being designated as "Excess Shares" under Article XII. In such event, any waiver granted by the Board shall terminate and the Company may proceed in any manner permitted under Article XII. 6. Reduction and Termination of the Waiver. If at any time after C&S Beneficially Owns more than the Ownership Limitation the ownership of Common Shares by any Person covered by this waiver falls below the 9% limitation, this waiver shall, as to each such Person, lapse and be of no further effect, with the consequence that thereafter any subsequent purported acquisition of Common Shares in violation of such limitation shall result in any shares above the 9% limitation being Excess Shares. Very truly yours, COHEN & STEERS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT, INC. By: /s/ Joseph M. Harvey ---------------------------------- Name: Joseph M. Harvey Title: Senior Vice President 5


