FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20020516142833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 ---------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): May 14, 2002 VENTAS, INC. ---------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 1-10989 61-1055020 ------------ ----------- ------------ (State or other (Commission File (IRS Employer jurisdiction of Number) Identification incorporation) No.) 4360 Brownsboro Road, Suite 115, Louisville, Kentucky 40207-1642 ---------------------------------------------------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (502) 357-9000 -------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
Item 5. Other Events. ------------ Ventas, Inc. (the "Company" or "Ventas") announced on May 14, 2002 that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.2375 per share, payable in cash on June 4, 2002 to stockholders of record on May 24, 2002. Ventas also announced that at the Company's annual meeting on May 14, 2002, its stockholders voted to elect the following board members to new, one-year terms. The board members are Debra A. Cafaro, Douglas Crocker, II, Ronald G. Geary, Jay M. Gellert, Gary W. Loveman, W. Bruce Lunsford and Sheli Z. Rosenberg. Finally, Ventas announced that its stockholders also ratified Ernst & Young, LLP as the Company's independent auditors for 2002. A copy of the press release issued by the Company on May 14, 2002 is included as an exhibit to this filing and is incorporated herein by reference. This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding the Company's and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and stockholders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements. Actual future results and trends for the Company may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Factors that may affect the plans or results of the Company include, without limitation, (a) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred") and certain of its affiliates to continue to meet and/or honor their obligations under their contractual arrangements with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, including without limitation the lease agreements and various agreements entered into by the Company and Kindred at the time of the Company's spin-off of Kindred on May 1, 1998 (the "1998 Spin Off"), as such agreements may have been amended and restated in connection with Kindred's emergence from bankruptcy on April 20, 2001, (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred to continue to meet and/or honor its obligation to indemnify and defend the Company for all litigation and other claims relating to the healthcare operations and other assets and liabilities transferred to Kindred in the 1998 Spin Off, (c)
the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and duties under the leases and other agreements with the Company, and their existing credit agreements, (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy, (e) the nature and extent of future competition, (f) the extent of future healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies and procedures, (g) increases in the cost of borrowing for the Company, (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients, (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company, (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, (k) the ability of the Company to pay down, refinance, restructure, and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due, (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of the Company's interest rate swap agreements and the ability of the Company to satisfy its obligation to post cash collateral if required to do so under one of these interest rate swap agreements, (m) the ability and willingness of Atria, Inc. ("Atria") to continue to meet and honor its contractual arrangements with the Company and Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership entered into in connection with the Company's spin-off of its assisted living operations and related assets and liabilities to Atria in August 1996, (n) the ability and willingness of the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations, including without limitation, the risk that the Company may fail to qualify as a REIT due to its ownership of common stock in Kindred, (o) the outcome of the audit being conducted by the Internal Revenue Service for the Company's tax years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998, (p) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2001, (q) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants and (r) the value of the Company's common stock in Kindred and the limitations on the ability of the Company to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its common stock in Kindred arising out of the securities laws and the registration rights agreement the Company entered into with Kindred and certain of the holders of common stock in Kindred. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. --------------------------------- (a) Financial statements of businesses acquired. Not applicable. (b) Pro forma financial information. Not applicable. (c) Exhibits: 99.1 Press Release dated May 14, 2002.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized. VENTAS, INC. (Registrant) Date: May 16, 2002 By: /s/ T. Richard Riney ------------------------------------ Name: T. Richard Riney Title: Executive Vice President and General Counsel
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Description ------- ----------- 99.1 Press Release dated May 14, 2002.

[GRAPHIC OMITTED] Ventas, Inc. 4360 Brownsboro Road Suite 115 Louisville, Kentucky 40207-1642 (502) 357.9000 (502) 357.9001 Fax Contact: Debra A. Cafaro President and CEO or John C. Thompson Executive Vice President (502) 357-9000 VENTAS DECLARES REGULAR QUARTERLY DIVIDEND OF $0.2375 PER SHARE ---------------------- Stockholders Elect Directors; Ratify E&Y at Annual Meeting Louisville, KY (May 14, 2002) - Ventas, Inc. (NYSE:VTR) (the "Company" or "Ventas") said today its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.2375 per share, payable in cash on June 4, 2002 to stockholders of record on May 24, 2002. The dividend is the second quarterly installment of the Company's 2002 annual dividend, expected to be $0.95 per share. The Company has approximately 69 million shares of common stock outstanding. DIRECTORS ELECTED; E&Y RATIFIED AT ANNUAL MEETING At Ventas's annual meeting today, stockholders voted to elect the following board members to new, one-year terms. The board members are Debra A. Cafaro, Douglas Crocker, II, Ronald G. Geary, Jay M. Gellert, Gary W. Loveman, W. Bruce Lunsford and Sheli Z. Rosenberg. Walter Beran, age 75, has retired from the Ventas Board and did not stand for reelection. "I want to thank Walter Beran for his many years of service to Ventas, especially his contributions to the Company's Independent Committee," Cafaro said. "Walter has been generous with his insights and support, and we are most grateful." Stockholders also ratified Ernst & Young, LLP as the Company's independent auditors for 2002. Ventas, Inc. is a healthcare real estate investment trust whose properties include 44 hospitals, 215 nursing facilities and eight personal care facilities in 36 states. This Press Release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). All statements regarding Ventas and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will," and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and stockholders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements. Actual future results and trends for the Company may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"). Factors that may affect the plans or results of the Company include, without limitation, (a) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred") and certain of its affiliates to continue to meet and/or honor its obligations under its contractual arrangements with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, including without limitation the lease agreements and various agreements (the "Spin Agreements") entered into by the Company and Kindred at the time of the Company's spin-off of Kindred on May 1, 1998 (the "1998 Spin Off"), as such - MORE -
Ventas Declares Regular Quarterly Dividend Page 2 May 14, 2002 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- agreements may have been amended and restated in connection with Kindred's emergence from bankruptcy on April 20, 2001, (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred to continue to meet and/or honor its obligation to indemnify and defend the Company for all litigation and other claims relating to the health care operations and other assets and liabilities transferred to Kindred in the 1998 Spin Off, (c) the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and duties under the leases and other agreements with the Company, and their existing credit agreements, (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy, (e) the nature and extent of future competition, (f) the extent of future health care reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies and procedures, (g) increases in the cost of borrowing for the Company, (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients, (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company, (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, (k) the ability of the Company to pay down, refinance, restructure, and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due, (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of the Company's interest rate swap agreements and the ability of the Company to satisfy its obligation to post cash collateral if required to do so under one of these interest rate swap agreements, (m) the ability and willingness of Atria, Inc. ("Atria") to continue to meet and honor its contractual arrangements with the Company and Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership entered into in connection with the Company's spin-off of its assisted living operations and related assets and liabilities to Atria in August 1996, (n) the ability and willingness of the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations, including without limitation, the risk that the Company may fail to qualify as a REIT due to its ownership of Kindred common stock, (o) the outcome of the audit being conducted by the Internal Revenue Service for the Company's tax years ended December 31, 1997 and 1998, (p) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ended December 31, 2001, (q) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants and (r) the value of the Company's common stock in Kindred and the limitations on the ability of the Company to sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of its common stock in Kindred arising out of the securities laws and the registration rights agreement the Company entered into with Kindred and certain of the holders of the Kindred common stock. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management. - END -


