FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20040728060617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Financial statements of businesses acquired.
 
Not applicable.
 
(b) Pro forma financial information.
 
Not applicable.
 
(c) Exhibits:
 
99.1 Press Release dated July 27, 2004.
 
Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
The information furnished pursuant to Item 12 is hereby incorporated by reference to this Item 9.
 
A copy of the press release issued by Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") on July 27, 2004 (the "Press Release") is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 9 by reference.
 
The information of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished pursuant to Item 9 and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.
 
Item 12.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 27, 2004, the Company issued the Press Release, which announced the Company's results of operations and financial condition as of and for the quarter ended June 30, 2004.
 
The Press Release provided that the Company's normalized funds from operations ("FFO") for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004 was $37.7 million, as compared to $31.2 million for the second quarter ended June 30, 2003. The Company's net income for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004 was $25.7 million, as compared to $16.1 million for the second quarter ended June 30, 2003 (after discontinued operations of $1.0 million related to the Company's sale of 27 facilities).
 
The Press Release also announced that the Company's normalized FFO per diluted share for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004 was $0.45 per diluted share, as compared to $0.39 per diluted share for the second quarter ended June 30, 2003. The Company's net income per diluted share for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004 was $0.30 per diluted share, as compared to $0.20 per diluted share for the second quarter
ended June 30, 2003 (after discontinued operations of $0.01 per diluted share related to the Company's sale of 27 facilities).
 
Additionally, the Press Release provided that the Company's normalized FFO for the six months ended June 30, 2004 was $71.7 million, as compared to $59.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003. The Company's net income for the six months ended June 30, 2004 was $48.9 million, as compared to $53.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2003 (after discontinued operations of $2.4 million).
 
The Press Release also provided that the Company's normalized FFO per diluted share for the six months ended June 30, 2004 was $0.86 per diluted share, as compared to $0.74 per diluted share for the six months ended June 30, 2003. The Company's net income per diluted share for the six months ended June 30, 2004 was $0.58 per diluted share, as compared to $0.67 per diluted share for the six months ended June 30, 2003 (after discontinued operations of $0.03 per diluted share).
 
The Press Release also announced that the Company had raised its expectation for normalized FFO per share for the year ended December 31, 2004 to between $1.75 and $1.79 per diluted share from its previous guidance of $1.70 and $1.74 per diluted share. The Company's expectation for net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2004 has been raised to between $1.18 and $1.22 per diluted share from its previous expectation for net income per share for the year ended December 31, 2004 of $1.14 and $1.18 per diluted share.
 
A copy of the Press Release is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated in this Item 12 by reference.
 
The information of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished pursuant to Item 12 and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. All statements regarding the Company's and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements.
Actual future results and trends for the Company may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Factors that may affect the plans or results of the Company include, without limitation, (a) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred) and certain of its affiliates to continue to meet and/or perform their obligations under their contractual arrangements with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, including without limitation the lease agreements and various agreements entered into by the Company and Kindred at the time of the Company's spin off of Kindred on May 1, 1998 (the "1998 Spin Off"), as such agreements may have been amended and restated in connection with Kindred's emergence from bankruptcy on April 20, 2001, (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred to continue to meet and/or perform its obligation to indemnify and defend the Company for all litigation and other claims relating to the healthcare operations and other assets and liabilities transferred to Kindred in the 1998 Spin Off, (c) the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and duties under the leases and other agreements with the Company, and their existing credit agreements, (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify and consummate diversifying acquisitions or investments, (e) the nature and extent of future competition, (f) the extent of future healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates, (g) increases in the cost of borrowing for the Company, (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients, (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company, (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, (k) the ability of the Company to pay down, refinance, restructure, and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due, (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of and the accounting for the Company's interest rate swap agreement, (m) the ability and willingness of the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations, (n) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the years ending December 31, 2003 and 2004, (o) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants, and (p) the impact on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of Kindred and the Company's other operators resulting from increased operating costs and uninsured liabilities for professional liability claims, and the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to accurately estimate the magnitude of such liabilities. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
VENTAS, INC.
(Registrant)
 
Date: July 28, 2004
 
By:
/s/ T. Richard Riney
Name: T. Richard Riney
Title: Executive Vice President and
General Counsel
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
[LOGO AND LETTERHEAD OF VENTAS INC]
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE:VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") said today that 2004 second quarter normalized Funds from Operations ("FFO") rose 21 percent to $37.7 million, compared with $31.2 million in the 2003 second quarter. Normalized FFO per diluted share in the second quarter ended June 30, 2004 increased 15 percent to $0.45 from $0.39 per diluted share for the comparable 2003 period. In the second quarter ended June 30, 2004, the Company had 84.6 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding, compared to 79.6 million weighted average diluted shares outstanding a year earlier.
LOUISVILLE, Ky (July 27, 2004)
 
Normalized FFO for the six months ended June 30, 2004 was $71.7 million, or $0.86 per diluted share, a 21 percent increase from $59.1 million, or $0.74 per diluted share for the comparable 2003 period.
 
Normalized FFO for all periods excludes the benefit of a $20.2 million reversal of a previously recorded contingent liability, which increased operating income in the first quarter of 2003 and a $0.9 million gain on sales of common stock in the Company's primary tenant, Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (Nasdaq:KIND) ("Kindred") which the Company realized in the second quarter of 2003.
 
The 2004 second quarter and first half of the year benefited from the Company's recent acquisition activity and from increased rent from the Company's master lease agreements with Kindred.
 
"We are delighted to report another quarter of excellent results and significant progress toward achieving our business goals," Ventas Chairman, President and CEO Debra A. Cafaro said. "We completed $70 million of acquisitions during the second quarter, adding four properties to our portfolio. In addition, with a strong and very active transaction pipeline, we believe we will continue to implement our strategic growth and diversification program with additional accretive acquisitions during the balance of 2004," she added.
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 2
July 27, 2004
 
 
"We also expect to enhance our future borrowing opportunities as the result of a recent credit upgrade from Standard & Poor's and the expected refinancing of our revolving credit agreement later this year. Our work remains focused on building shareholder value," Cafaro said.
 
GAAP NET INCOME
 
Ventas reported second quarter 2004 net income of $25.7 million, or $0.30 per diluted share. In the second quarter of 2003, Ventas reported net income of $16.1 million or $0.20 per diluted share after discontinued operations of $1.0 million, or $0.01 per diluted share, related to the sale of 27 facilities.
 
Net income for the six months ended June 30, 2004 was $48.9 million, or $0.58 per diluted share, compared with net income for the six months ended June 30, 2003 of $53.4 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, after discontinued operations of $2.4 million, or $0.03 per diluted share.
 
SECOND QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS AND OTHER RECENT DEVELOPMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 3
July 27, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
SECOND QUARTER 2004 RESULTS
 
Rental revenue for the quarter ended June 30, 2004 was $58.7 million, of which $48.4 million (or 82.5 percent) resulted from leases with Kindred. Second quarter expenses totaled $34.1 million, and included $12.1 million of depreciation expense and $17.0 million of interest expense. General and administrative and professional expenses for the 2004 second quarter totaled $4.4 million. Property level operating expenses for the period were $0.3 million.
 
SIX MONTH 2004 RESULTS
 
Rental revenue for the six months ended June 30, 2004 was $112.0 million, of which $95.8 million (or 85.6 percent) resulted from leases with Kindred. Expenses for the six months ended June 30, 2004 totaled $65.1 million and included $23.0 million of depreciation expense, $32.3 million of interest expense and $8.8 million of general and administrative and professional expenses. Property level operating expenses for the period were $0.5 million.
 
VENTAS RAISES 2004 NORMALIZED FFO GUIDANCE
 
Ventas also said it raised its 2004 normalized FFO guidance to between $1.75 and $1.79 per diluted share. If achieved, these results would represent approximately 15 percent growth in normalized FFO per share in 2004. Previously, 2004 guidance was set at between $1.70 and $1.74 per diluted share.
 
The Company's increased guidance assumes that all of the Company's tenants and borrowers continue to meet all of their obligations to the Company and the Company completes its expected
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 4
July 27, 2004
 
 
refinancing in the third quarter. To the extent that the Company issues any long-term fixed rate debt during 2004, its 2004 normalized FFO results should be on the lower end of the revised normalized FFO guidance range.
 
In addition to the previously stated assumptions, the Company's FFO guidance (and related GAAP earnings projections) for 2004 excludes gains and losses on the sales of assets, and the impact of future acquisitions, divestitures and capital transactions. Its guidance also excludes the future impact of (a) any expense the Company records for non-cash "swap ineffectiveness," and (b) any expenses related to asset impairment, the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees or additional costs, expenses or premiums incurred as a result of early debt retirement.
 
The Company's FFO guidance is based on a number of other assumptions, which are subject to change and many of which are outside the control of the Company. If actual results vary from these assumptions, the Company's expectations may change. There can be no assurance that the Company will achieve these results.
 
Reconciliation of the Company's normalized FFO guidance to the Company's projected GAAP earnings is provided on a schedule attached to this Press Release. The Company may from time to time update its publicly announced FFO guidance, but it is not obligated to do so.
 
SECOND QUARTER CONFERENCE CALL
 
Ventas will hold a conference call to discuss this earnings release on Wednesday morning, July 28, 2004, at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time (8:00 a.m. Central Time). The conference call is being web cast by CCBN and can be accessed at the Ventas website at or . An online replay of the web cast will be available at approximately 11:00 a.m. Eastern Time and will be archived for thirty (30) days.
www.ventasreit.com
www.fulldisclosure.com
 
Ventas, Inc. is a healthcare real estate investment trust that owns 42 hospitals, 201 nursing facilities, 27 senior housing facilities and 11 other facilities in 39 states. The Company also has real estate investments in 25 additional healthcare and senior housing facilities. More information about Ventas can be found on its website at .
www.ventasreit.com
 
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding Ventas, Inc.'s ("Ventas" or the "Company") and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements.
 
Actual future results and trends for the Company may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"). Factors that may affect the plans or results of the Company include, without limitation, (a) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred") and certain of its affiliates to continue to meet and/or perform their obligations under their contractual arrangements with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, including without limitation the lease agreements and various agreements entered into by the Company and Kindred at the time of the Company's spin off of Kindred on May 1, 1998 (the "1998 Spin Off"), as such agreements may have been
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 5
July 27, 2004
 
 
amended and restated in connection with Kindred's emergence from bankruptcy on April 20, 2001, (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred to continue to meet and/or perform its obligation to indemnify and defend the Company for all litigation and other claims relating to the healthcare operations and other assets and liabilities transferred to Kindred in the 1998 Spin Off, (c) the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators, tenants and borrowers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and duties under the leases and other agreements with the Company, and their existing credit agreements, (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, (e) the nature and extent of future competition, (f) the extent of future healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates, (g) increases in the cost of borrowing for the Company, (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients, (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company, (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, (k) the ability of the Company to pay down, refinance, restructure, and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due, (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of and the accounting for the Company's interest rate swap agreement, (m) the ability and willingness of the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations, (n) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the years ending December 31, 2003 and 2004, (o) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants, and (p) the impact on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of Kindred and the Company's other operators resulting from increased operating costs and uninsured liabilities for professional liability claims, and the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to accurately estimate the magnitude of such liabilities. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 6
July 27, 2004
 
 
 
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 7
July 27, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 8
July 27, 2004
 
 
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 9
July 27, 2004
 
 
 
Funds from Operations
 
FFO and Normalized FFO for the three and six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 10
July 27, 2004
 
 
Projected FFO per diluted share for the year ended December 31, 2004:
 
 
Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen or fallen with market conditions, many industry investors have considered presentations of operating results for real estate companies that use historical cost accounting to be insufficient by themselves. To overcome this problem, the Company considers FFO an appropriate measure of performance of an equity REIT and uses the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT") definition of FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income, computed in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), excluding gains (or losses) from sales of property, plus depreciation and amortization and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and joint ventures will be calculated to reflect funds from operations on the same basis.
 
FFO presented herein is not necessarily comparable to FFO presented by other real estate companies due to the fact that not all real estate companies use the same definition. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP), as an indicator of the Company's financial performance, as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP), as a measure of the Company's liquidity, nor is FFO necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of the Company's needs. The Company believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of the consolidated historical operating results of the Company, FFO should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented elsewhere in this Press Release.
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 11
July 27, 2004
 
 
Pro Forma Financial Results
 
The following table illustrates the effect on net income and earnings per share as if the Company had consummated as of the beginning of the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 (a) its acquisition of all outstanding common shares of ElderTrust in an all cash transaction valued at $184.0 million, (b) its purchase of a total of 14 independent living or assisted living facilities from certain affiliates of Brookdale Living Communities, Inc., (c) the purchase of the four other acquired properties during the second quarter 2004 and (d) the equity offering of 2.0 million shares of Ventas common stock (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 12
July 27, 2004
 
 
Pro Forma Net Debt to EBITDA
 
The following pro forma information considers the effect on net income, interest and depreciation as if the Company had consummated the acquisition of the four properties acquired during the second quarter 2004 as of the beginning of the three month period ended June 30, 2004. The following table illustrates pro forma earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") and Normalized EBITDA for the three months ended June 30, 2004 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
The Company considers EBITDA a profitability measure which indicates the Company's ability to service debt. Normalized EBITDA excludes income and expense items that are nonrecurring in the Company's core business. The Company considers the Net Debt to EBITDA ratio a useful measure to evaluate the Company's ability to pay its indebtedness. EBITDA presented herein is not necessarily comparable to EBITDA presented by other companies due to the fact that not all companies use the same definition. EBITDA should not be considered as an alternative to net income (determined in accordance with GAAP), as an indicator of the Company's financial performance, as an alternative to cash flow from operating activities (determined in accordance with GAAP), as a measure of the Company's liquidity, nor is EBITDA necessarily indicative of sufficient cash flow to fund all of the Company's needs. The Company believes that in order to facilitate a clear understanding of the consolidated historical operating results of the Company, EBITDA should be examined in conjunction with net income as presented elsewhere in this Press Release.
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 13
July 27, 2004
 
 
Portfolio of Properties
 
The following information provides an overview of the Company's portfolio of healthcare properties as of and for the six months ended June 30, 2004 (dollars in thousands):
 
 
Kindred Coverage Ratios
 
The following is based on data provided by Kindred to the Company or obtained from Kindred's public filings. This information reflects Kindred's EBITDARM and EBITDAR coverage by Master Lease:
 
 
1
Trailing Twelve Months EBITDARM ended March 31, 2004 (the latest available data provided by Kindred) to the sum of (a) the Company's Trailing Twelve Months cash rental revenue, plus (b) a portion of the $8.6 million in annual rental revenue added by the July 1, 2003 Master Lease amendments, as if it were in effect as of April 1, 2003.
 
2
Coverage reflects the ratio of Kindred's EBITDAR to rent. EBITDAR is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent but after deducting a 5 percent management fee. In the calculation of Trailing Twelve Months EBITDAR, intercompany profit pertaining to Kindred's new PeopleFirst Rehabilitation Division for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 has been eliminated from purchased ancillary expenses within the Ventas skilled nursing portfolio.
 
3
Coverage reflects the ratio of Kindred's EBITDARM to rent. EBITDARM is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent. In the calculation of Trailing Twelve Months EBITDARM, intercompany profit pertaining to Kindred's new PeopleFirst Rehabilitation Division for the quarter ended March 31, 2004 has been eliminated from purchased ancillary expenses within the Ventas skilled nursing portfolio.
 
Ventas Reports Second Quarter FFO Rises 21 Percent
Page 14
July 27, 2004
 
 
Scheduled Maturities of Borrowing Arrangements
 
The Company's indebtedness has the following maturities (in thousands):
 
 


