FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20040910182211.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
On September 8, 2004, Ventas, Inc. (the "Company"), as guarantor, and Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Ventas Realty"), as borrower, entered into a Third Amended and Restated Credit, Security and Guaranty Agreement (the "New Credit Agreement") with Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Issuing Bank for the Letters of Credit thereunder, Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC, as Co-Syndication Agents, Calyon New York Branch, JPMorgan Chase Bank and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Co-Documentation Agents, and the lenders referred to therein. The New Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million, senior secured revolving credit facility, which replaces the senior secured revolving credit facility and term loan provided under the Second Amended and Restated Credit, Security and Guaranty Agreement dated as of April 17, 2002 (the "Prior Credit Agreement") among Ventas Realty, as borrower, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company identified therein, as guarantors, the lenders identified therein, including Bank of America, N.A., as Issuing Bank for the Letters of Credit thereunder, Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and UBS Warburg LLC, as Syndication Agent. Ventas Realty may increase its borrowing capacity under the New Credit Agreement, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set forth therein, up to $450 million (which increase may take the form of additional revolving loans and/or a term loan).
 
Borrowings outstanding under the New Credit Agreement bear interest at a fluctuating rate per annum equal to an applicable percentage over (i) in the case of Eurodollar rate loans, a one-, two-, three- or six-month Eurodollar rate, at Ventas Realty's option, or (ii) in the case of base rate loans, the higher of (x) the federal funds rate in effect for the relevant period plus 50 basis points and (y) the annual rate of interest announced by Bank of America, N.A. as its "prime rate." The applicable percentage is determined by reference to the Company's consolidated leverage ratio and ranges from 1.05% to 1.75% for Eurodollar rate loans and from 0.00% to 0.50% for base rate loans.
 
As of September 10, 2004, Ventas Realty had $149 million of outstanding borrowings and $500,000 of outstanding letters of credit under the New Credit Agreement.
 
Ventas Realty's obligations under the New Credit Agreement are initially guaranteed by the Company and secured by a lien on certain of Ventas Realty's real property assets (and related leases and rents) and cash collateral deposited with the Administrative Agent from time to time.
 
The New Credit Agreement matures on September 8, 2007 but may be extended, at Ventas Realty's option, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set forth therein, for an additional period of one year. Loans outstanding under the New Credit Agreement may be repaid from time to time without premium or penalty, other than customary breakage costs, if any, with respect to Eurodollar rate loans.
 
The New Credit Agreement imposes various restrictions on Ventas Realty and the Company, including restrictions pertaining to: (i) the incurrence of additional indebtedness; (ii) limitations on liens; (iii) certain dividend, distribution and other payments; (iv) mergers, sales of assets and other transactions; (v) the maintenance of minimum consolidated adjusted net worth and certain
 
consolidated leverage ratios and consolidated fixed charge coverage ratios; (vi) transactions with affiliates; (vii) permitted business and development activities and uses of loan proceeds; and (viii) changes to material agreements.
 
The New Credit Agreement contains usual and customary events of default. If a default occurs and is continuing, Ventas Realty may be required to repay all amounts outstanding thereunder.
 
The foregoing description is qualified by reference in its entirety to the New Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference. Filed herewith as Exhibits 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4, respectively, and also incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference are copies of (1) the First Amendment to Amended and Restated Open-End Mortgage, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004 between Ventas Realty, as Mortgagor, to Bank of America, N.A., Administrative Agent, in its capacity as Administrative Agent, as Mortgagee, (2) the First Amendment to Amended and Restated Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases and Security Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004 between Ventas Realty, as Grantor, and Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent, as Beneficiary, and (3) the First Amendment to Amended and Restated Assignment of Leases and Rents dated as of September 8, 2004 between Ventas Realty, as Assignor, and Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent, as Assignee. Filed herewith as Exhibit 10.5 and incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference is a Schedule of Agreements Substantially Identical in All Material Respects to Agreements Filed as Exhibits 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 pursuant to Instruction 2 to Item 601 of Regulation S-K.
 
In connection with the New Credit Agreement, Ventas Realty also entered into a Lease Severance and Amendment Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004 (the "Lease Severance Agreement") with Kindred Healthcare, Inc. and Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc. (collectively, "Kindred"), with respect to eight real properties (the "Bundle 2 Properties") that had been pledged as collateral under the Prior Credit Agreement but were not used to secure the New Credit Agreement. Pursuant to the Lease Severance Agreement, the Bundle 2 Properties were removed from the Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 1 dated as of April 20, 2001, as amended ("Master Lease No. 1"), between Ventas Realty and Kindred and placed in a new Master Lease Agreement No. 1A dated as of September 8, 2004 ("Master Lease No. 1A") between the parties.
 
Master Lease No. 1A is a "triple-net lease" or an "absolute-net lease" pursuant to which Kindred is required to pay all insurance, taxes, utilities, maintenance and repairs related to the properties. The term and renewal options applicable to the Bundle 2 Properties remain unchanged from the term and renewal options that applied to those properties under Master Lease No. 1.
 
Base Rent (as defined in Master Lease No. 1A) for the Bundle 2 Properties is payable all in cash and escalates on May 1 of each year at an annual rate of 3.5% over the Prior Period Base Rent (as defined in Master Lease No. 1A) if certain Kindred revenue parameters are met.
 
Under the terms of Master Lease No. 1A, Ventas Realty has a one-time right to reset the Base Rent thereunder (the "Reset Right"), exercisable on or after January 20, 2006 but prior to July 20, 2007, to a then fair market rental rate, for a fee of $105,908 payable at the time of exercise. The Reset Right under Master Lease No. 1A can only be exercised in conjunction with the exercise of the Reset Right under Master Lease No. 1.
 
Master Lease No. 1A and Master Lease No. 1 can be recombined at any time at the sole option of the Company.
 
The foregoing description is qualified by reference in its entirety to Master Lease No. 1A and the Lease Severance Agreement, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.6 and 10.7, respectively, and incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
 
 
The description of the New Credit Agreement set forth under "Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement" above and Exhibits 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4 and 10.5 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference. Such description is qualified by reference in its entirety to such exhibits.
 
 
On September 9, 2004, Christopher T. Hannon, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Province Healthcare Company, was appointed to the Board of Directors of the Company. Mr. Hannon will initially serve on the Company's Audit and Compliance Committee.
 
Under the term of the Ventas, Inc. 2004 Stock Plan for Directors, on his appointment to the Board, Mr. Hannon received a grant of 2,000 shares of restricted common stock in the Company, which shares vest one-half on the first anniversary of the date of grant and one-half on the second anniversary of the date of grant.
 
A copy of the press release issued by the Company on September 9, 2004 announcing Mr. Hannon's appointment to the Board is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated in this Item 5.02 by reference.
 
 
On September 9, 2004, the Company's Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.325 per share, payable in cash on September 30, 2004, to stockholders of record on September 20, 2004.
 
The portion of the press release issued by the Company on September 9, 2004 relating to the dividend declaration, which press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.2, is incorporated in this Item 8.01 by reference.
 
 
(a)
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
Not applicable.
 
(b)
Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
Not applicable.
 
(c)
Exhibits:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
Published CUSIP Number:
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIRD AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT, SECURITY AND GUARANTY AGREEMENT, dated as of September 8, 2004 (as amended, modified, extended, supplemented or otherwise modified, renewed or replaced from time to time, this ""), among VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (the ""), as borrower, VENTAS, INC., a Delaware corporation (""), and certain subsidiaries of Ventas identified herein, as guarantors, the lenders identified herein, including Bank of America, N.A., as Issuing Bank for the Letters of Credit hereunder, Bank of America, N.A. as Administrative Agent, Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC, as Co-Syndication Agents, and Calyon New York Branch, JPMorgan Chase Bank and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Co-Documentation Agents.
Credit Agreement
Borrower
Ventas
 
 
A $350 million credit facility was established in favor of the Borrower pursuant to the terms of that certain Second Amended and Restated Credit, Security and Guaranty Agreement dated as of April 17, 2002 among the Borrower, the guarantors identified therein, the lenders identified therein (as amended by that certain Amendment No. 1 dated as of June 10, 2003 and as otherwise amended from time to time, the ""), consisting of a $290 million revolving credit line (the "") and a $60 million term loan (the "").
Prior Credit Agreement
Prior Revolving Loans
Prior Term Loan
 
The Borrower has requested certain modifications to the Prior Credit Agreement, including, among other things, reduction of the principal amount of the credit facility to $300 million, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders have agreed to such modifications on the terms and conditions set forth herein, including, among other things, repayment of all amounts outstanding under the Prior Term Loan simultaneously with Closing Date hereunder.
 
This Credit Agreement amends, restates, supersedes and replaces in its entirety the Prior Credit Agreement.
 
To provide assurance for the repayment of the Loans hereunder and the other Obligations of the Credit Parties, the Borrower will, among other things, provide or cause to be provided to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, the following (each as more fully described herein):
 
(i) a guaranty of the Obligations by each of the Guarantors pursuant to hereof;
Article 9
 
(ii) a security interest in the Collateral from each of the Credit Parties pursuant to hereof; and
Article 8
 
(iii) a Mortgage and an Assignment of Leases and Rents with respect to each Mortgaged Property.
 
Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Administrative Agent is willing to act as administrative agent for the Lenders, the Issuing Bank is willing to issue Letters of Credit as provided herein, the Swingline Lender is willing to make Swingline Loans as provided herein, each of the Revolving Lenders is willing to make Revolving Loans and to participate in Letters of Credit to the Borrower as provided herein in an aggregate amount at any one time outstanding not in excess of such Lender's Revolving Commitment hereunder and each of the Tranche B Term Lenders (if applicable) is willing to make its Tranche B Term Loan (if applicable) to the Borrower as provided herein in an aggregate amount not in excess of such Lender's Tranche B Term Loan Commitment, if applicable.
 
Accordingly, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
 
 
Section 1.1 .
Definitions
 
For the purposes hereof unless the context otherwise requires, all references to Articles and Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be deemed references to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Credit Agreement, terms defined in the Introductory Statement shall have the meanings provided therein, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated, all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings accorded to them under GAAP and all terms defined in the UCC and not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings accorded to them therein. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the masculine, feminine and neuter forms. Unless the context otherwise requires, any of the following terms may be used in the singular or the plural, depending on the reference:
 
"" means April 17, 2002.
2002 Closing Date
 
"" by any Person, shall mean the purchase or acquisition by such Person of any Capital Stock in another Person or any asset of another Person, whether or not involving a merger or consolidation with such other Person.
Acquisition
 
"" shall mean the Base Rate the Applicable Percentage.
Adjusted Base Rate
plus
 
"" shall mean the Eurodollar Rate the Applicable Percentage.
Adjusted Eurodollar Rate
plus
 
"" shall have the meaning given such term in .
Adjusted Total Assets
Section 6.1(a)
 
"" shall mean Bank of America, in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder or such successor Administrative Agent as may be appointed pursuant to hereof.
Administrative Agent
Section 11.9
 
"" means the Administrative Agent's address as set forth in , or such other address as the Administrative Agent may from time to time change by notice thereof given to the Borrower and the Lenders in accordance with .
Administrative Agent's Office
Section 12.1
Section 12.1
 
"" of any specified Person shall mean any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control", as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling", "controlled by" and "under common control with" have correlative meanings. No Person (other than Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries) in whom a special purpose entity makes an Investment in connection with a Qualified CMBS Transaction will be deemed to be an Affiliate of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries solely by reason of such Investment.
Affiliate
 
"" shall mean a group of Persons, each of which is an Affiliate of some other Person in the group.
Affiliated Group
 
"" shall mean all provisions of laws, treaties, statutes, rules, regulations and orders of the United States, any state thereof or municipality therein, or any foreign governmental body or of any Governmental Authority applicable to the Person in question, and all orders, judgments, writs and decrees of all courts and arbitrators in proceedings or actions in which the Person in question is a party or to which such Person or any of its property is subject.
Applicable Law
 
"" shall mean, for any applicable period, a per annum rate based on the Consolidated Leverage Ratio as follows:
Applicable Percentage
 
 
The appropriate pricing level for the Applicable Percentage shall be determined and adjusted on each date (each a "") (a) five Business Days after the date by which each annual and quarterly compliance certificates and related financial statements and information are required in accordance with the provisions of , , and , as appropriate, and (b) five Business Days after the date on which any Acquisition closes; that notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event an annual or quarterly compliance certificate and related financial statements and information are not delivered timely to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders by the date required by , , and , as appropriate, the Applicable Percentages shall be based on pricing level I until the date five Business Days after the appropriate compliance certificate and related financial statements and information are delivered, whereupon the applicable pricing level shall be adjusted based on the information contained in such compliance certificate and related financial statements and information. The Applicable Percentage as of the Closing Date shall be based on pricing level IV.
Rate Determination Date
Sections 5.1(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
provided
Section 5.1(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
 
Subject to the qualifications set forth in this paragraph, each Applicable Percentage shall be effective from a Rate Determination Date until the next Rate Determination Date. The Administrative Agent shall determine the appropriate Applicable Percentages in the pricing matrix promptly upon receipt of the applicable quarterly or annual compliance certificate and related financial information described herein and shall promptly notify the Borrower and the Lenders of any change thereof. Such determinations by the Administrative Agent shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Adjustments in such Applicable Percentages shall be effective for the period covered thereby as to all Revolving Loans, existing or prospective.
 
With respect to the Tranche B Term Loan, "Applicable Percentage" shall mean any such rate as may be mutually agreed upon by the Borrower and the Tranche B Term Lenders in the joinder agreement establishing the Tranche B Term Loan facility under on or prior to the date of the making of the Tranche B Term Loan.
Section 2.1(f)
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the definition of "Cash Equivalents" set forth in this .
Approved Banks
Section 1.1
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
"" by any Person shall mean and include (i) the sale, lease or other disposition of any property by such Person (including the Capital Stock of a Subsidiary of such Person), but for purposes hereof shall not include, in any event, (A) the sale of inventory in the ordinary course of business, (B) the sale, lease or other disposition of machinery and equipment no longer used or useful in the conduct of business and (C) a sale, lease, transfer or disposition of property to another Credit Party, and (ii) receipt by such Person of any cash insurance proceeds or condemnation award payable by reason of theft, loss, physical destruction or damage, taking or similar event with respect to any of its property.
Asset Disposition
 
"" shall mean an agreement substantially in the form of hereto, executed by the assignor, the assignee and the other parties as contemplated hereby or thereby.
Assignment and Assumption
Exhibit A
 
"" shall mean an Assignment of Leases and Rents substantially in the form of hereto or, as to any existing Assignment of Leases and Rents, an Assignment of Leases and Rents as amended by an amendment substantially in the form of hereto, executed and delivered by any Credit Party to the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) and in each case as such document may be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, renewed or replaced from time to time.
Assignment of Leases and Rents
Exhibit D-3
Exhibit D-4
 
"" shall mean, with respect to the Borrower or any Guarantor, the president, vice president, chief financial officer, controller or other chief accounting officer, secretary, treasurer or general counsel of the general partner or managing member of such entity or of such entity itself, as the case may be.
Authorized Officer
 
"" shall mean Bank of America, N.A., and its successors.
Bank of America
 
"" shall mean the Bankruptcy Reform Act of 1978, as heretofore and hereafter amended, as codified at 11 U.S.C.  101 , and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any successor provision thereto.
Bankruptcy Code
et
seq.
 
"" shall mean Banc of America Securities LCC, and its successors.
BAS
 
"" shall mean a fluctuating rate per annum equal to the higher of (a) the Federal Funds Rate in effect for the relevant period plus one half of one percent (0.5%) and (b) the Prime Rate in effect for the relevant period.
Base Rate
 
"" shall mean a Loan based on the Base Rate in accordance with the provisions of hereof.
Base Rate Loan
Article 2
 
"" shall mean (collectively and individually) Black Diamond CLO 1998-1 Ltd., Black Diamond International Funding, Ltd., BDC Finance, LLC and any Affiliates of, or successors to, any of the foregoing.
Black Diamond
 
"" shall mean that action entitled , Case No. 99C107076, filed November 22, 1999 in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Kentucky.
Black Diamond Litigation
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, et al. v. Black Diamond CLO 1998-1 Ltd., et al.
 
"" shall mean the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America, or any successor thereto.
Board
 
"" means: (1) with respect to a corporation, the Board of Directors of the corporation; (2) with respect to a partnership, the Board of Directors of the general partner of the partnership; and (3) with respect to any other Person, the board or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
Board of Directors
 
"" shall mean the Trustees described in the High Yield Loan Agreement, and any successors thereto.
Bond Trustees
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the initial paragraph of this Credit Agreement, and its permitted successors.
Borrower
 
"" shall mean a group of Loans of a single Interest Rate Type and as to which a single Interest Period is in effect on a single day.
Borrowing
 
"" shall mean, at any time, an amount equal to the sum of (i) sixty-five percent (65%) of the aggregate Property Value of the Eligible Properties (ii) one hundred percent (100%) of amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account or any other amounts on deposit with and pledged to the Administrative Agent securing the Loans and Obligations owing under this Credit Agreement.
Borrowing Base
plus
 
"" shall mean a certificate substantially in the form of hereto delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and (a) setting forth each Eligible Property used in the calculation of the Borrowing Base and the Property Value with respect thereto, (b) certifying (i) as to the calculation of the Borrowing Base as of the date of such certificate, (ii) as to the balance as of such date in the Cash Collateral Account and (iii) that each Real Property Asset used in the calculation of the Borrowing Base is an Eligible Property and (c) providing such other information with respect to the Eligible Properties and/or the Borrowing Base as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require.
Borrowing Base Certificate
Exhibit E
Section 5.1(c)
 
"" shall mean all rent payments (other than deferred rents not payable in cash and escalation rents not payable in cash) due and payable from the Mortgaged Properties for the first full month immediately prior to the measurement date, (ii) the number of days in that month; (iii) the number of days (365 or 366, as the case may be) in that year.
Borrowing Base Rental Income
divided
by
multiplied
by
 
"" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized to close under the Applicable Laws of, or are in fact closed in, the state where the Administrative Agent's Office is located and, if such day relates to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, any such day on which dealings in Dollar deposits are conducted by and between banks in the London interbank eurodollar market.
Business Day
 
"", as applied to any Person, shall mean any lease of any property (whether real, personal or mixed) by that Person as lessee which, in accordance with GAAP and in the
Capital Lease
 
reasonable judgment of such Person, is required to be accounted for as a capital lease on the balance sheet of that Person.
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any entity, any capital stock (including preferred stock), shares, interests, participation or other ownership interests (however designated) of such entity and any rights (other than debt securities convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock), warrants or options to purchase any thereof; , , that leases of real property that provide for contingent rent based on the financial performance of the tenant shall not be deemed to be Capital Stock.
Capital Stock
provided
however
 
"" shall mean 9.75%.
Capitalization Rate
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in hereof.
Cash Collateral Account
Section 10.1
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in hereof.
Cash Collateral Bank
Section 10.1
 
"" shall mean (i) direct obligations of the United States government, including, without limitation, treasury bills, notes and bonds, (ii) interest bearing or discounted obligations of United States federal agencies and Government sponsored entities, or pools of such instruments offered by banks which have a long-term debt rating of AA or better by S&P or Aa2 by Moody's ("") and dealers, including, without limitation, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation participation sale certificates, Government National Mortgage Association modified pass-through certificates, Federal National Mortgage Association bonds and notes, and Federal Farm Credit System securities, (iii) deposit accounts with Approved Banks, (iv)(A) commercial paper rated at least A-1 by S&P and P-1 by Moody's, and/or guaranteed by an entity having an Aa rating by Moody's, an AA rating by S&P, or better rated credit at the time of investment, and (B) time deposits, domestic and Eurodollar certificates of deposit, bankers acceptances, floating rate notes, other money market instruments and letters of credit each issued by Approved Banks, (v) obligations of domestic corporations, including, without limitation, commercial paper rated at least A-1 by S&P and P-1 by Moody's, bonds, debentures, and loan participations, each of which at the time of investment is rated at least AA by S&P, and/or Aa2 by Moody's, and/or unconditionally guaranteed by an entity having an AA rating by S&P, an Aa2 rating by Moody's, or better rated credit, (vi) obligations issued by state and local governments or their agencies which obligations are rated at least MIG-1 by Moody's and/or SP-1 by S&P and/or are guaranteed by an irrevocable letter of credit of an Approved Bank, (vii) repurchase agreements with Approved Banks and primary government securities dealers fully secured by U.S. Government or agency collateral equal to or exceeding the principal amount on a daily basis and held in safekeeping, (viii) real estate loan pool participations, guaranteed by an entity with an AA rating or better by S&P or an Aa2 rating or better by Moody's, and (ix) shares of any mutual fund that has its assets primarily invested in the types of investments referred to in clauses through above.
Cash Equivalents
Approved Banks
(i)
(viii)
 
"" shall mean either (i) a Person or an Affiliated Group shall acquire thirty-five percent (35%) or more of any class of the voting stock of Ventas, and the Borrower shall not have repaid all of the outstanding Obligations in full in cash, cash collateralized all outstanding Letters of Credit in an amount equal to 102% of the then current LOC Obligations and terminated the Commitments within forty-five (45) days after such Person or Affiliated Group shall have acquired such percentage of such stock; or (ii) Ventas shall cease to be the sole general partner of the Borrower; or (iii) Ventas shall cease to own sixty percent (60%) or more of the partnership interests in the Borrower.
Change in Control
 
"" shall mean the date on which the conditions precedent set forth in hereof have been satisfied or waived.
Closing Date
Section 4.1
 
"" shall mean that certain commercial mortgage backed securities transaction sponsored by Ventas and evidenced by the CMBS Transaction Documents.
CMBS Transaction
 
"" shall mean, collectively, (a) that certain Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2001, between Ventas Finance I, LLC, as borrower, and Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc., as lender, and (b) all agreements, certificates and other instruments executed in connection therewith, each as may be supplemented and amended from time to time.
CMBS Transaction Documents
 
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as heretofore and hereafter amended, as codified at 26 U.S.C.  1 , and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any successor provision thereto.
Code
et
seq.
 
"" shall mean with respect to each Credit Party, all of such Credit Party's right, title and interest in and to (i) all personal property, tangible and intangible, whether now owned, presently existing or hereafter acquired or created, that is located at or used in connection with any Mortgaged Property, including, but not limited to, the lease of any Mortgaged Property (including without limitation Master Lease No. 1, but only to the extent that Master Lease No. 1 relates to Mortgaged Properties), all accounts, instruments, intercompany obligations, assignable contract rights (including, without limitation, any assignable rights of the Borrower under any management agreement), letter of credit rights, commercial tort claims, documents, chattel paper, general intangibles, equipment, machinery, investment property, insurance proceeds, cash proceeds and deposit accounts, in each case located at or used in connection with any Mortgaged Property, any accessions to any or all of the foregoing, and any proceeds or products of any or all of the foregoing, or income from any or all of the foregoing, in any form, including, without limitation, any claims against third parties for loss or damage to or destruction of any or all of the foregoing; (ii) all books, records, ledger cards, computer tapes and diskettes wherever located, related to the Collateral described in clause of this definition or any of the Mortgaged Properties, and (iii) all amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account or otherwise on deposit with and pledged to the Administrative Agent securing the Loans and Obligations owing under this Credit Agreement; that the Collateral shall not include (A) any issued and outstanding Capital Stock or any Interest Rate Protection Agreement held by such Credit Party or the proceeds of either thereof, (B) any cash that is not on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account or that is not otherwise on deposit with and pledged to the Administrative Agent securing the Loans and Obligations owing under this Credit Agreement, or (C) any other property not included in the description of "Collateral".
Collateral
(i)
provided
 
"" shall mean, collectively, the Revolving Commitment, the LOC Commitment, the Swingline Commitment and the Term Loan Commitment, if any.
Commitments
 
"" shall mean the period from and including the Closing Date to but not including the earlier of (i) the Revolving Commitment Termination Date or (ii) the date on which the Revolving Commitments terminate in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement.
Commitment Period
 
"" shall mean any condemnation or other taking, or temporary or permanent requisition of any Mortgaged Property, any interest therein or right appurtenant thereto, or any change of grade affecting any Mortgaged Property, in each case as the result of the exercise of any right of condemnation or eminent domain. A transfer to a Governmental Authority in lieu or in anticipation of condemnation shall be deemed to be a Condemnation Event.
Condemnation Event
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Condemnation Event, all awards or payments received by a Credit Party or any Subsidiary thereof by reason of such Condemnation Event, including, without limitation, all amounts received with respect to any transfer in lieu or in anticipation of such Condemnation Event or in settlement of any proceeding relating to such Condemnation Event; but excluding any such award and other payment so received as and to the extent that, pursuant to any lease or other contractual obligation applicable to such Credit Party or such Subsidiary (as applicable), such Credit Party or such Subsidiary (as applicable) is contractually obligated (i) to pay such award or other payment to a Person (other than a Credit Party or any of its Subsidiaries) or (ii) to expend or apply such award or other payment (or allow another Person to expend or apply) any such awards or other payments towards the cost of repair or restoration of the affected Mortgaged Property.
Condemnation Proceeds
 
"" shall mean, as of any date, for Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (i) consolidated shareholders' equity or net worth as of such day as determined in accordance with GAAP (ii) accumulated depreciation determined in accordance with GAAP, but , for purposes hereof, the unrealized gain or loss on interest rate hedges or other interest rate derivatives reported on the Ventas Consolidated Balance Sheet as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
Consolidated Adjusted Net Worth
plus
excluding
 
"" shall mean, for any period, for Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, Consolidated Net Income for such period, , without duplication, to the extent deducted in computing Consolidated Net Income, the sum for such period of (i) amortization and depreciation expense, (ii) other non-cash charges reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, (iii) Consolidated Interest Expense and (iv) provision for taxes during such period, "Consolidated EBITDA" shall exclude (A) extraordinary gains and losses, and related tax effects thereon, (B) non-cash impairment charges and (C) other non-cash gains and losses and related tax effects thereon as are reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders all as determined for such period in conformity with GAAP. Except as expressly provided otherwise, the applicable period of determination shall be the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.
Consolidated EBITDA
plus
provided
that
 
"" shall mean, on any date of determination, the ratio of Consolidated EBITDA for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of such date to Consolidated Fixed Charges as of such date.
Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
 
"" shall mean (without duplication), on any date of determination, for Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, the sum of (i) Consolidated Interest Expense for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of such date (ii) scheduled principal payments (excluding balloon payments) of Consolidated Funded Debt for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of such date (iii) dividends and distributions paid on or in respect of the Ventas Preferred Stock for the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of such date, all as determined in accordance with GAAP; that notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, "Consolidated Fixed Charges" shall not include (A) gains or losses arising from the unwinding or break-funding of
Consolidated Fixed Charges
plus
plus
provided
 
existing Interest Rate Protection Agreements, (B) the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, (C) prepayment fees, premiums and penalties or (D) other unusual items as are reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders.
 
"" shall mean (without duplication) the difference of (i) Funded Debt of Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, including subordinated Debt, (ii) unrestricted cash, Cash Equivalents and readily marketable securities of Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries (including, for purposes hereof, amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account or otherwise on deposit with and pledged to the Administrative Agent to secure the Loans and Obligations owing under this Credit Agreement), all as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Funded Debt
minus
 
"" shall mean, as of any date, for Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as determined in accordance with GAAP, the sum of (i) unrestricted cash, restricted cash to the extent a corresponding liability is included in Consolidated Total Liabilities, restricted cash held by third party lenders as collateral for indebtedness, and cash equivalents; (ii) an amount equal to Consolidated EBITDA divided by the Capitalization Rate; (iii) 100% of the book value of all development in progress; and (iv) 100% of the book value of all other non-real property assets other than goodwill and other intangible assets.
Consolidated Gross Asset Value
 
"" shall mean, for any period, all interest expense for Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries during such period determined on a consolidated basis for such period taken as a single accounting period in accordance with GAAP, including amortization of Debt discount and premium, and the interest component under Capital Leases (and also including, to the extent required under GAAP, the implied interest component under Securitization Transactions), but excluding the amortization of any deferred financing fees. Except as expressly provided otherwise, the applicable period of determination shall be the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.
Consolidated Interest Expense
 
"" shall mean, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter, the ratio of Consolidated Total Liabilities on such day to Consolidated Gross Asset Value on such day.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
"" shall mean, for any period for which such amount is being determined, the net income or loss of Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries during such period determined on a consolidated basis for such period taken as a single accounting period in accordance with GAAP; that there shall be excluded from such determination of net income or loss (i) the income (or loss) of any Person (other than a Consolidated Subsidiary) in which Ventas or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries has an equity investment or comparable interest, except to the extent of the amount of dividends or other distributions actually paid to Ventas or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries by such Person during such period, (ii) the income (or loss) of any Person accrued prior to the date it becomes a Consolidated Subsidiary of Ventas or is merged into or consolidated with Ventas or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries or such Person's assets are acquired by Ventas or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries (except as otherwise required to be included in connection with ), and (iii) any net after tax gains or losses attributable to sales of non-current assets out of the ordinary course of business and write-downs of non-current assets in anticipation of losses to the extent they have decreased net income. Except as expressly provided otherwise, the applicable period of determination shall be the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the date of determination.
Consolidated Net Income
provided
Section 1.2
 
"" shall mean, as of any date, all tangible assets of Ventas and its Subsidiaries determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP and classified as such on the consolidated balance sheet of Ventas and its Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
"" shall mean all Subsidiaries of a Person which in the reasonable judgment of such Person are required to be consolidated with such Person for financial reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Subsidiaries
 
"" shall mean, as of any date, all liabilities appearing on the then most recent consolidated balance sheet for Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as determined in accordance with GAAP (subject to the inclusions, exclusions and limitations set forth in the definition of "Funded Debt" hereunder), but including, in any event, without duplication, (i) all Funded Debt, (ii) accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business and payable in accordance with customary trade terms, and (iii) accrued or declared dividends that have not been paid. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Consolidated Total Liabilities" shall not include, for purposes hereof, (A) deferred income taxes, (B) liabilities arising from the unwinding or break-funding of existing Interest Rate Protection Agreements or otherwise recognized in connection with the establishment of this Credit Agreement and all other liabilities related to interest rate hedges and other interest rate derivatives except to the extent such liabilities become current and realizable ( that the regular scheduled quarterly settlement payments on interest rate protection agreements and other derivatives shall not be considered current and realizable for purposes hereof), and (C) Covered Liabilities.
Consolidated Total Liabilities
provided
 
"" shall mean a contribution agreement (if any), which agreement shall provide for a right of contribution among the Guarantors and the Borrower if any of the Guarantors is called upon to perform under its Guaranty hereunder, as such agreement may be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, renewed or replaced from time to time.
Contribution Agreement
 
"" shall mean any Debt, obligation or liability of any Credit Party that (i) is secured by a letter of credit issued for the benefit of a Credit Party in form and substance and from a financial institution reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, but only to the extent no Credit Party has liability therefor, (ii) arises under the Sandwich Leases, (iii) a tenant under a Sandwich Lease is responsible for paying directly or indirectly or (iv) is otherwise acceptable as a "Covered Liability" in the reasonable discretion of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders.
Covered Liabilities
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the initial paragraph of this agreement.
Credit Agreement
 
"" shall mean the Borrower and each of the Guarantors.
Credit Party
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in .
Credit Party Materials
Section 5.1
 
"" shall mean any foreign exchange contract, currency swap agreement, futures contract, option contract, synthetic cap or other similar agreement designed to protect a Credit Party against fluctuations in currency values or reduce the effect of any such fluctuations.
Currency Agreement
 
"" of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries shall mean, without duplication, any indebtedness of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries, whether or not contingent, in respect of:
Debt
 
(i) borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments;
 
(ii) indebtedness for borrowed money secured by any encumbrance existing on property owned by Ventas or its Subsidiaries, to the extent of the lesser of (x) the amount of indebtedness so secured or (y) the fair market value of the property subject to such encumbrance;
 
(iii) the reimbursement obligations in connection with any letters of credit actually drawn or amounts representing the balance deferred and unpaid of the purchase price of any property or services, except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense, trade payable, conditional sale obligation or obligation under any title retention agreement;
 
(iv) the principal amount of all obligations of Ventas and its Subsidiaries with respect to redemption, repayment or other repurchase of any Disqualified Stock;
 
(v) any lease of property by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries as lessee which is reflected as a capital lease obligation on the consolidated balance sheet of Ventas or its Subsidiaries;
 
to the extent, in the case of items of indebtedness under clauses through above, that any such items would appear as a liability on Ventas' or its Subsidiaries' consolidated balance sheet in accordance with GAAP; or
(i)
(v)
 
(vi) the liquidation preference of any Disqualified Stock of Ventas or any shares of preferred stock of any of its Subsidiaries.
 
Debt also includes, to the extent not otherwise included, any obligations by Ventas and its Subsidiaries to be liable for, or to pay, as obligor, guarantor or otherwise (other than for purposes of collection in the ordinary course of business), Debt of another Person (other than Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries); it being understood that Debt shall be deemed to be incurred by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries whenever Ventas or such Subsidiary shall create, assume, guarantee or otherwise become liable in respect thereof; , that a Person shall not be deemed to have incurred Debt (or be liable with respect to such Debt) by virtue of Standard Securitization Undertakings.
provided
however
 
Debt shall not include (a) Debt arising from agreements of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries providing for indemnification, adjustment or holdback of purchase price or similar obligations, in each case, incurred or assumed in connection with the acquisition or disposition of any business, assets or a Subsidiary, other than guarantees of Debt incurred by any Person acquiring all or any portion of such business, assets or Subsidiary for the purpose of financing the acquisition or (b) contingent obligations under performance bonds, performance guarantees, surety bonds, appeal bonds or similar obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices. In the case of Debt as of any date issued with original issue discount, the amount of such Debt shall be the accreted value thereof as of such date.
 
"" shall mean the Bankruptcy Code and all other liquidation, conservatorship, bankruptcy, assignment for the benefit of creditors, moratorium, rearrangement, receivership, insolvency, reorganization, or similar debtor relief laws of the United States of America or other applicable jurisdictions from time to time in effect affecting the rights of creditors generally.
Debtor Relief Laws
 
"" shall mean any event, act or condition which with notice or lapse of time, or both, would constitute an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" shall mean, at any time, any Lender which shall not have theretofore made available to the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank, as applicable, any amounts required to be made by such Lender hereunder or otherwise failed to pay any obligation owing by such Lender pursuant to this Credit Agreement.
Defaulting Lender
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any entity, any Capital Stock of such entity which by the terms of such Capital Stock (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable or exercisable), upon the happening of any event or otherwise (other than pursuant to a change of control provision not materially more favorable to the holder thereof than provided under this Credit Agreement), (i) matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise (other than Capital Stock which is redeemable solely in exchange for Capital Stock which is not Disqualified Stock or for Subordinated Debt), (ii) is convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Debt, other than Subordinated Debt or Disqualified Stock, or (iii) is redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part (other than Capital Stock which is redeemable solely in exchange for Capital Stock which is not Disqualified Stock or for Subordinated Debt); in each case on or prior to the stated maturity of the Loans and Obligations under this Credit Agreement.
Disqualified Stock
 
"" and "" shall mean lawful money of the United States of America.
Dollars
$
 
"" for any period shall mean the consolidated net income of Ventas and its Subsidiaries without reduction for any minority interests, excluding gains and losses on sales of investments, extraordinary items (including, in any event, for purposes hereof, losses on extinguishment of debt) distributions on equity securities, property valuation losses and the net income of any Person, other than a Subsidiary of Ventas (except to the extent of cash dividends or distributions paid to Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries) as reflected in the financial statements of Ventas and its Subsidiaries for such period, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, and excluding the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles.
Earnings from Operations
 
"" means (a) a Lender; (b) an Affiliate of a Lender; (c) an Approved Fund; and (d) any other Person (other than a natural person) approved by (i) the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender, and (ii) unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Borrower (each such approval not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed); provided that notwithstanding the foregoing, "Eligible Assignee" shall not include (A) the Borrower or any of the Borrower's Affiliates or Subsidiaries, (B) Black Diamond, Highland Capital or Cerberus, (C) Kindred or any other tenant under a Material Lease, (D) another prospective assignee or successor administrative agent (other than a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender) which (1) is or has been an adverse party in litigation or other legal proceedings with, or has threatened, litigation or other legal proceedings against, Ventas or the Borrower or (2) is a REIT investing primarily in healthcare and/or senior assisted care living facilities or (E) an Affiliate of any of the foregoing entities listed in clauses , or hereof.
Eligible Assignee
(B)
(C)
(D)
 
"" shall mean a Real Property Asset that at all times:
Eligible Property
 
(a) constitutes or is used as a skilled nursing home center, hospital, personal healthcare facility, assisted living facility, independent living facility, medical office building, continuum of care facility, life care facility, sheltered care facility, senior housing, senior living facility or other property customarily constituting an asset of a REIT specializing in healthcare or senior housing property;
 
(b) is one hundred percent (100%) owned by the Borrower or another Credit Party and constitutes either (i) fee simple ownership or (ii) a long-term ground leasehold approved by the Administrative Agent;
 
(c) is the subject of environmental reports from reputable environmental consultants and in form and detail reasonably acceptable in each case to the Administrative Agent, which reports indicate that the subject Mortgaged Property is free from material environmental problems as determined by the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion, or, in the alternative, such environmental problems are the subject of environmental indemnities from a credit-worthy party in form and amount reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent or is otherwise a Covered Liability;
 
(d) is leased to Kindred or another third party operator or tenant on market terms or satisfying standards substantially similar to the standards in the Master Leases and, in any case, reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent;
 
(e) is the subject of tenant estoppel agreements substantially identical in all material respects to tenant estoppel agreements delivered on or prior to the Closing Date or otherwise in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent;
 
(f) as to which rent payments owing in respect thereof are not more than 60 days past due; and
 
(g) is a Mortgaged Property.
 
"" shall mean any surface or subsurface water, groundwater, water vapor, surface or subsurface land, air, fish, wildlife, microorganisms and all other natural resources.
Environment
 
"" shall mean any and all administrative or judicial actions, suits, orders, claims, liens, notices, notices of violations, investigations, complaints, requests for information, proceedings, or other official enforcement communication (written or oral), whether criminal or civil, pursuant to or relating to any applicable Environmental Law by any Person (including, but not limited to, any Governmental Authority, private person and citizens' group) based upon, alleging, asserting, or claiming any actual or potential (i) violation of or liability under any Environmental Law, (ii) violation of any Environmental Permit, or (iii) liability for investigatory costs, cleanup costs, removal costs, remedial costs, response costs, natural resource damage, property damage, personal injury, fines, or penalties arising out of, based on, resulting from, or related to the presence, Release, or threatened Release into the Environment, of any Hazardous Materials at any location, including, but not limited to, any Premises or any location other than any Premises to which Hazardous Materials or materials containing Hazardous Materials were sent for handling, storage, treatment, or disposal.
Environmental Claim
 
"" shall mean any location which is listed or proposed for listing on the National Priorities List, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Information System, or on any similar state list of sites requiring investigation or cleanup, or which is the subject of any pending or threatened action, suit, proceeding, or investigation related to or arising from any alleged violation of any Environmental Law, or at which there has been a Release, or a threatened Release of a Hazardous Material.
Environmental Clean-up Site
 
"" shall mean any and all federal, state, local, municipal or foreign laws, rules, orders, regulations, statutes, ordinances, codes, common law doctrines, decrees or requirements of any governmental authority regulating, relating to, or imposing liability or standards of conduct concerning, any Hazardous Material or environmental protection or health and safety, as now or at any time hereafter in effect, including without limitation, the Clean Water Act also known as the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C.  1251 ; the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.  7401 ; the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, 7 U.S.C.  136 ; the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act, 30 U.S.C.  1201 ; the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C.  9601 ; the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Public Law 99-499, 100 Stat. 1613; the Emergency Planning and Community Right to Know Act, 42 U.S.C.  11001 ; the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C.  6901 ; the Occupational Safety and Health Act as amended, 29 U.S.C.  655 and  657; together, in each case, with any amendment thereto, and the regulations adopted and the publications promulgated thereunder and all substitutions thereof.
Environmental Laws
et
seq.
et
seq.
et
seq.
et
seq.
et
seq.
et
seq.
et
seq.
 
"" shall mean any permits, licenses, approvals, consents or authorizations required by any Governmental Authority under or in connection with any Environmental Law and includes any and all orders, consent orders or binding agreements issued or entered into by a Governmental Authority under any applicable Environmental Law.
Environmental Permit
 
"" shall have the meaning provided in .
Environmental Reports
Section 3.20(i)
 
"" shall mean Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
Equity Interest
 
"" shall mean, with respect to Ventas or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries, any issuance or sale of shares of its Capital Stock, other than an issuance (i) to Ventas or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries, (ii) in connection with a conversion of debt securities to equity, (iii) in connection with the Ventas Distribution Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan, the Ventas Directors Stock Purchase Plan, the issuance of restricted stock to any present or former employee, officer or director of Ventas, or in connection with the exercise by a present or former employee, officer or director of such Person under a stock incentive plan, stock option plan or other equity-based compensation plan or arrangement, (iv) in connection with the issuance of limited partnership units in the Borrower under so-called UPREIT transactions, or (v) in connection with the conversion of any such UPREIT units into any Capital Stock of Ventas or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries.
Equity Transaction
 
"" shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as heretofore and hereafter amended, as codified at 29 U.S.C.  1001 et seq., and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or any successor provision thereto.
ERISA
 
"" shall mean each Person (as defined in Section 3(9) of ERISA) which is treated as a single employer with any Credit Party under Section 414(b), (c), (m) or (o) of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
 
"" has the meaning specified in the definition of Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Base Rate
 
"" means for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, a rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent pursuant to the following formula:
Eurodollar Rate
 
 
Where,
 
"" means, for any Interest Period with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the rate per annum equal to the British Bankers Association LIBOR Rate (""), as published by Reuters (or other commercially available source providing quotations of BBA LIBOR as designated by the Administrative Agent from time to time) at approximately 11:00 a.m., (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, for Dollar deposits (for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period) with a term equivalent to such Interest Period. If such rate is not available at such time for any reason, then the "Eurodollar Base Rate" for such Interest Period shall be the rate per annum determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which deposits in Dollars for delivery on the first day of such Interest Period in same day funds in the approximate amount of the Eurodollar Rate Loan being made, continued or converted by Bank of America and with a term equivalent to such Interest Period would be offered by Bank of America's London Branch to major banks in the London interbank eurodollar market at their request at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Base Rate
BBA LIBOR
 
"" means, for any day during any Interest Period, the reserve percentage (expressed as a decimal, carried out to five decimal places) in effect on such day, whether or not applicable to any Lender, under regulations issued from time to time by the Board for determining the maximum reserve requirement (including any emergency, supplemental or other marginal reserve requirement) with respect to Eurocurrency funding (currently referred to as "Eurocurrency liabilities"). The Eurodollar Rate for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan shall be adjusted automatically as of the effective date of any change in the Eurodollar Reserve Percentage.
Eurodollar Reserve Percentage
 
"" means a Loan that bears interest at a rate based on the Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loan
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in hereof.
Event of Default
Article 7
 
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" shall mean any and all monetary obligations (if any) relating to (i) accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of business and payable in accordance with customary trade terms; (ii) deferred income taxes; (iii) dividends payable; (iv) liabilities related to interest rate hedges and other interest rate derivatives except to the extent such liabilities become current and realizable ( that the regular scheduled quarterly settlement payments on interest rate protection agreements and other derivatives shall not be considered current and realizable for purposes hereof); and (v) Covered Liabilities.
Excluded Indebtedness
provided
 
"" shall mean the letter of credit outstanding on the Closing Date and identified on Schedule 2.16(b).
Existing Letter of Credit
 
"" shall mean, as to any Lender, the making of, or participation in, a Loan by such Lender (including continuations and conversions thereof) or the issuance or extension of, or participation in, a Letter of Credit by such Lender.
Extension of Credit
 
"" shall have the meaning in hereof.
Facility Fee
Section 2.5(a)
 
"" means, with respect to any asset, the price (after taking into account any liabilities relating to such assets) which could be negotiated in an arm's-length free market transaction between a willing seller and a willing buyer, neither of which is under pressure or compulsion to complete the transaction. Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Board of Directors of Ventas in good faith.
Fair Market Value
 
"" shall mean, for any applicable period, the rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the nearest 1/100
Federal Funds Rate
th
of one percent (0.01%)) equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by federal funds brokers on such day, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York on the Business Day next succeeding such day; that (a) if such day is not a Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be such rate on such transactions on the next preceding Business Day as so published on the next succeeding Business Day, and (b) if no such rate is so published on such next succeeding Business Day, the Federal Funds Rate for such day shall be the average rate charged to Bank of America on such day on such transactions as determined by the Administrative Agent.
provided
 
"" shall mean that certain letter agreement dated as of June 21, 2004 between the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, relating to the payment of certain fees, as such letter agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time by a written instrument executed by the parties thereto.
Fee Letter
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
 
"" shall mean this Credit Agreement, any note issued to evidence any Loan hereunder, all LOC Documents, any Notice of Borrowing, any Mortgage, any Assignment of Leases and Rents, the Contribution Agreement (if applicable), all UCC financing statements, the Fee Letter and any other documentation which is required to be or is otherwise executed by any Credit Party and delivered in connection with this Credit Agreement or any of the documents listed above.
Fundamental Documents
 
"" shall mean (without duplication), at any time and with respect to any Person (i) indebtedness of such Person for borrowed money (whether by loan or the issuance and sale of debt securities) or for the deferred purchase price of property or services purchased (other than amounts constituting trade payables arising in the ordinary course of business and payable in accordance with customary trading terms in the ordinary course of business); (ii) all indebtedness of such Person evidenced by a note, bond, debenture or similar instrument (whether or not disbursed in full in the case of a construction loan); (iii) indebtedness of others secured by a Lien on assets of such Person, whether or not such Person shall have assumed such indebtedness
Funded Debt
 
(, that if such Person has not assumed such indebtedness of such other Person, then the amount of indebtedness of such Person pursuant to this clause for purposes of this definition shall be equal to the lesser of the amount of the indebtedness of such other Person or the fair market value of the assets of such Person which secures such other indebtedness); (iv) obligations of such Person in respect of letters of credit, acceptance facilities, drafts or similar instruments issued or accepted by banks and other financial institutions for the account of such Person; (v) any Guaranty of Funded Debt by such Person; (vi) obligations of such Person under Capital Leases; (vii) the attributed principal amount of Securitization Transactions (including Qualified CMBS Transactions), (viii) the attributed principal amount of Synthetic Leases; (ix) all preferred stock or comparable equity interests of such Person provided for mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other like payments; and (x) the Funded Debt of any partnership or joint venture or other similar entity in which such Person is a general partner or joint venturer and, as such, has personal liability for such obligations, but only if and to the extent there is recourse to such Person for payment thereof. For purposes of this Credit Agreement, "Funded Debt" shall not include any Excluded Indebtedness.
provided
(iii)
 
"" for any period shall mean Earnings from Operations for such period plus amounts that have been deducted, and minus amounts that have been added, for the following (without duplication): (i) provision for taxes of Ventas and its Subsidiaries based on income, (ii) amortization of debt discount and deferred financing costs, (iii) provisions for gains and losses on properties and property depreciation and amortization, (iv) the effect of any non-cash charge resulting from a change in accounting principles in determining Earnings from Operations for such period, (v) amortization of deferred charges, and (vi) gains and losses associated with the partial termination of the Interest Rate Protection Agreement in connection with the issuance of the High Yield Bonds and the repayment of existing floating rate Debt.
Funds from Operations
 
"" shall mean generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America applied on a consistent basis, subject to the provisions of .
GAAP
Section 1.2
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in .
Government Acts
Section 2.16(h)
 
"" shall mean any federal, state, municipal or other governmental department, commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality, or any court, in each case whether of the United States or any foreign jurisdiction.
Governmental Authority
 
"" shall mean (i) Ventas and (ii) any direct or indirect Subsidiary of Ventas, which Subsidiary (A) owns and mortgages or otherwise pledges any Mortgaged Property or Collateral to secure the Obligations and (B) becomes a signatory to this Credit Agreement as a Guarantor as required by hereof; , however, that any Person constituting a Guarantor as described above shall cease to constitute a Guarantor when its obligations hereunder are released in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement.
Guarantors
Section 5.13(a)
provided
 
"" shall mean, as to any Person, any direct or indirect obligation of such Person guaranteeing or intending to guarantee, or otherwise providing credit support, for any Indebtedness, Capital Lease, dividend or other monetary obligation ("") of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, by contract, as a general partner or otherwise, including, without limitation, any obligation of such Person, whether or not contingent, (a) to purchase any such primary obligation or any property constituting direct or indirect security therefor, (b) to advance or supply funds (i) for the purchase or payment of any such primary obligation or (ii) to maintain working capital or equity capital of the primary obligor or otherwise to maintain the net worth or solvency of the primary obligor, or
Guaranty
primary obligation
primary obligor
 
(c) to purchase property, securities or services from the primary obligor or other Person, in each case, primarily for the purpose of assuring the performance of the primary obligor of any such primary obligation or assuring the owner of any such primary obligation of the repayment of such primary obligation. The amount of any Guaranty shall be deemed to be an amount equal to (x) the stated or determinable amount of the primary obligation in respect of which such Guaranty is made (or, if the amount of such primary obligation is not stated or determinable, the maximum reasonably anticipated liability in respect thereof (assuming such Person is required to perform thereunder)) or (y) the stated maximum liability under such Guaranty, whichever is less. The term "Guaranty" shall not include (A) any Excluded Indebtedness or (B) any Standard Securitization Undertaking.
 
"" shall mean petroleum, petroleum hydrocarbons or petroleum products, petroleum by-products, radioactive materials, asbestos or asbestos-containing materials, gasoline, diesel fuel, pesticides, radon, urea formaldehyde, lead or lead-containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls; and any other chemicals, materials, substances or wastes in any amount or concentration which are now or hereafter become defined as or included in the definition of "hazardous substances," "hazardous materials," "hazardous wastes," "extremely hazardous wastes," "restricted hazardous wastes," "toxic substances," "toxic pollutants," "pollutants," "regulated substances," "solid wastes," or "contaminants" or words of similar import, under any Environmental Law, but excluding any substance or material customarily located on and used in properties of like type that are stored and used in strict conformity with all Applicable Laws.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" shall mean any Interest Rate Protection Agreement entered into from time to time between a Lender or an Affiliate of a Lender and the Borrower as permitted by this Credit Agreement; that the Administrative Agent shall have received written notice thereof within ten (10) Business Days after execution of such Interest Rate Protection Agreement.
Hedging Agreements
provided
 
"" shall mean any Lender or Affiliate of a Lender that has entered into a Hedging Agreement.
Hedging Banks
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any specified Person, the obligations of such Person under (i) interest rate swap agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements; and (ii) other agreements or arrangements designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
Hedging Obligation
 
"" shall mean, collectively, (i) the 8 3/4% Senior Notes due 2009 issued pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated as of April 17, 2002, by and among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, as issuers, the Guarantors listed therein, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, (ii) the 9% Senior Notes due 2012 issued pursuant to that certain Indenture, dated as of April 17, 2002, by and among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, as issuers, the Guarantors listed therein, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee and (iii) all notes, indentures, bonds, agreements, certificates and other instruments issued or executed in connection therewith, each as may be supplemented and amended from time to time.
High Yield Bonds
 
"" shall mean the Indentures referenced in clauses and of the definition of "High Yield Bonds" as supplemented and amended from time to time.
High Yield Loan Agreement
(i)
(ii)
 
"" or "" shall mean issue, create, assume, guarantee, incur or otherwise become liable for; provided, however that any Debt or Capital Stock of a Person existing at the time such
Incur
incur
 
Person becomes a Subsidiary (whether by merger, consolidation, acquisition or otherwise) shall be deemed to be incurred by such Subsidiary at the time it becomes a Subsidiary. Neither the accrual of interest nor the accretion of original issue discount shall be deemed to be an incurrence of Debt. The term "incurrence" when used as a noun shall have a correlative meaning.
 
"" shall mean (without duplication), at any time and with respect to any Person, (i) all Funded Debt of such Person, (ii) all obligations of such Person under take-or-pay or similar arrangements or under commodities agreements, (iii) all obligations of such Person under any Interest Rate Protection Agreement or Currency Agreement, (iv) Indebtedness of any partnership or joint venture or other similar entity in which such Person is a general partner or joint venturer and, as such, has personal liability for such obligations, but only if and to the extent there is recourse to such Person for payment thereof, (v) any Guaranty by such Person of the Indebtedness of another and (vi) Indebtedness of another Person secured by a Lien on any assets of such Person, whether or not such Person shall have assumed such indebtedness (, that if such Person has not assumed such indebtedness of such other Person, then the amount of indebtedness of such Person pursuant to this clause for purposes of this definition shall be equal to the lesser of the amount of the indebtedness of such other Person or the fair market value of the assets of such Person which secures such other indebtedness). The term "Indebtedness" shall not include any Excluded Indebtedness.
Indebtedness
provided
(vi)
 
"" shall mean (i) in the case of the Administrative Agent, BAS and Bank of America, in its capacity as the Issuing Bank, the Closing Date, (ii) in the case of each Lender which is an original party to this Credit Agreement, the Closing Date and (iii) in the case of any other Lender, the effective date of the Assignment and Assumption or Instrument of Assumption and Joinder pursuant to which it became a Lender.
Initial Date
 
"" shall mean an Instrument of Assumption and Joinder substantially in the form of hereto.
Instrument of Assumption and Joinder
Exhibit C
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in hereof.
Interest Deficit
Section 2.14
 
"" shall mean (i) as to any Base Rate Loan and any Swingline Loan, the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December and the Revolving Commitment Termination Date or the maturity date of the Tranche B Term Loan, if applicable, and (ii) as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, the last Business Day of each Interest Period for such Loan, the date of repayment of principal of such Loan and the Revolving Commitment Termination Date or the maturity date of the Tranche B Term Loan, if applicable, and in addition where the applicable Interest Period is more than three months, then also on the date three months from the beginning of the Interest Period, and each three months thereafter. If an Interest Payment Date falls on a date that is not a Business Day, such Interest Payment Date shall be deemed to be the next succeeding Business Day.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" shall mean, as to any Eurodollar Rate Loan, a period of one, two, three or six months, as the Borrower may elect, in each case commencing on the date of the borrowing (including conversions, continuations and renewals); , , (A) if any Interest Period would end on a day that is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (except in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans where the next succeeding Business Day falls in the next succeeding calendar month, then such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day), (B) in the case of Revolving Loans, no Interest Period shall extend beyond the Revolving Commitment Termination Date, (C) in the case of the Tranche B Term Loan, if applicable, no Interest Period may extend beyond any principal amortization date unless, and to the
Interest Period
provided
however
 
extent that, there are Base Rate Loans and Eurodollar Rate Loans expiring prior to the applicable principal amortization payment date which comprise the Tranche B Term Loan, if applicable, that equal or exceed amount of the principal amortization payment coming due, and (C) in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, where an Interest Period begins on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the calendar month in which the Interest Period is to end, such Interest Period shall end on the last day of such calendar month.
 
"" shall mean any interest rate swap agreement, interest rate cap agreement, synthetic cap, collar or floor or other financial agreement or arrangement designed to protect a Credit Party against fluctuations in interest rates or to reduce the effect of any such fluctuations.
Interest Rate Protection Agreement
 
"" shall mean either Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, as appropriate.
Interest Rate Type
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, any stock, evidence of indebtedness or other security of any Person, any loan, advance, contribution of capital, extension of credit or commitment therefor (including, without limitation, the Guaranty of loans made to others, but excluding trade and customer accounts receivable arising in the ordinary course of business and payable in accordance with customary trading terms in the ordinary course of business) and any purchase of (i) any security of another Person or (ii) a line of business, or all or substantially all of the assets, of any Person or any commitment to make any such purchase. If Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any direct or indirect Subsidiary such that, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, such Person is no longer a Subsidiary, Ventas or such Subsidiary will be deemed to have made an Investment on the date of any such sale or disposition equal to the fair market value of the Equity Interests of such Subsidiary not sold or disposed. The acquisition by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries of a Person that holds an Investment in a third Person will be deemed to be an Investment by Ventas or such Subsidiary in such third Person in an amount equal to the fair market value of Investments held by the acquired Person in such third Person. "Investments" shall exclude extensions of trade credit on commercially reasonable terms in accordance with normal trade practices. In the event that a Person transfers assets to another Person in exchange for a combination of items of value which includes items that would be considered to be "Investments" under this definition, only those items that would be considered to be "Investments" will be treated as Investments for purposes of this Credit Agreement.
Investment
 
"" means, with respect to any Letter of Credit, the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance).
ISP
 
"" shall mean Bank of America in its capacity as issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder, together with its successors in such capacity.
Issuing Bank
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in .
Issuing Bank Fee
Section 2.5(b)(iii)
 
"" shall mean any Person (other than a wholly owned Subsidiary of a Credit Party) in which an Equity Interest is, at the time any determination is being made, owned or controlled by a Credit Party as permitted by this Credit Agreement.
Joint Venture
 
"" shall mean (collectively or individually, as appropriate) Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (formerly Vencor, Inc.), a Delaware corporation, and Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Kindred
 
"" shall mean each of the Persons identified as a "Lender" on the signature pages hereto, and their successors and assigns.
Lenders
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any of the Lenders, the branch or branches (or affiliate or affiliates) from which such Lender's Eurodollar Rate Loans or Base Rate Loans, as the case may be, are made or maintained and for the account of which all payments of principal of, and interest on, such Lender's Eurodollar Rate Loans or Base Rate Loans are made, as notified to the Administrative Agent from time to time.
Lending Office
 
"" shall mean any standby or trade letter of credit issued by the Issuing Bank in accordance with the terms of .
Letter of Credit
Section 2.1(b)
 
"" means an application and agreement for the issuance or amendment of a Letter of Credit in the form from time to time in use by the Issuing Bank.
Letter of Credit Application
 
"" shall mean, collectively, the Standby Letter of Credit Fees and the Trade Letter of Credit Fees.
Letter of Credit Fees
 
"" shall mean any mortgage, pledge, security interest, encumbrance, lien or charge of any kind whatsoever (including, without limitation, any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any agreement to grant a security interest at a future date, any lease in the nature of security, and the filing of, or agreement to give, any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code of any jurisdiction).
Lien
 
"" or "" shall mean the Revolving Loans, the Swingline Loans and the Tranche B Term Loan, if applicable, and the Base Rate Loans and Eurodollar Rate Loans comprising such Loans.
Loan
Loans
 
"" shall mean the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Revolving Loans, LOC Obligations, Swingline Loans and the Tranche B Term Loan, if applicable.
Loan Obligations
 
"" shall mean (a) with respect to the Issuing Bank, the commitment of the Issuing Bank to issue, and to honor payment obligations under, Letters of Credit and (b) with respect to each other Lender, the commitment of such Lender to purchase Participation Interests in the Letters of Credit up to such Lender's LOC Committed Amount.
LOC Commitment
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in .
LOC Committed Amount
Section 2.1(b)
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit, any amendments thereto, any documents delivered in connection therewith, the Letter of Credit Application and any agreements, instruments, guarantees or other documents (whether general in application or applicable only to such Letter of Credit) governing or providing for (i) the rights and obligations of the parties concerned or at risk or (ii) any collateral security for such obligations.
LOC Documents
 
"" shall mean, at any time, the sum (without duplication) of (i) the maximum amount that is, or at any time thereafter may become, available to be drawn under Letters of Credit then outstanding, assuming compliance with all requirements for drawings referred to in
LOC Obligations
 
such Letters of Credit (ii) the aggregate amount of all drawings under Letters of Credit honored by the Issuing Bank but not yet reimbursed. For all purposes of this Agreement, if on any date of determination a Letter of Credit has expired by its terms but any amount may still be drawn thereunder by reason of the operation of Rule 3.14 of the ISP, such Letter of Credit shall be deemed to be "outstanding" in the amount so remaining available to be drawn.
plus
 
"" shall be as defined in Regulation U.
Margin Stock
 
"" shall mean that certain Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 1 dated as of April 20, 2001 by and between the Borrower and Kindred, as amended by the terms and provisions of that certain Correction of Lease and Memorandum of Lease dated as of February 1, 2001 by and between the Borrower, Ventas and Vencor, Inc. (n/k/a Kindred Healthcare, Inc.) and Vencor Operating, Inc. (n/k/a Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc.), that certain First Amendment to Memorandum of Lease and Specific Property Lease Amendment dated as of November 6, 2001 by and between the Borrower and Kindred, that certain letter dated December 12, 2001 from Borrower to Kindred, that certain Lease Severance and Amendment Agreement dated as of December 12, 2001, that certain Master Lease No. 1 Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2003, that certain Master Lease No. 1 Amendment Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2003, that certain Lease Severance and Amendment Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2004, between the Borrower and Kindred and as further supplemented and amended from time to time, including, without limitation, pursuant to any subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreements relating to the subject properties, but excluding any third-party guaranties executed and delivered in connection with any of the foregoing, so long as the terms of such guaranties do not impose any greater liability or obligations on any Credit Party under such Master Lease No. 1; provided that the lessee under such lease agreement is Kindred, one of its Subsidiaries or any of their successors (including, without limitation, by way of merger, sale of all or substantially all of such entity's assets or otherwise).
Master Lease No. 1
 
"" shall mean, collectively (i) Master Lease No. 1; (ii) Master Lease Agreement No. 1A dated as of September 8, 2004 by and between the Borrower and Kindred; (iii) Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 2 dated as of April 20, 2001 by and between the Borrower and Kindred, as amended by that certain Master Lease No. 2 Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2003, and that certain Master Lease No. 2 Amendment Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2003; (iv) Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 3 dated as of April 20, 2001 by and between the Borrower and Kindred, as amended by that certain Master Lease No. 3 Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2003, and that certain Master Lease No. 3 Amendment Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2003; (v) Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 4 dated as of April 20, 2001 by and between the Borrower and Kindred, as amended by that certain Master Lease No. 4 Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2003, and that certain Master Lease No. 4 Amendment Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2003, and (vi) Master Lease Agreement dated as of December 12, 2001 by and between the Borrower (subsequently assigned to Ventas Finance I, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company) and Kindred, as amended by that certain CMBS Master Lease Amendment Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2003 and that certain CMBS Master Lease Amendment Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2003; as any of the foregoing lease agreements in - has heretofore been amended, or shall hereafter be amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, renewed or replaced from time to time, including, without limitation, pursuant to any subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreements relating to the subject properties, , that the lessee under such lease agreements in - is Kindred, one of its Subsidiaries or any of their successors (including, without limitation, by way of merger, sale of all or substantially all of such entity's assets or otherwise); that, for purposes
Master Leases
(ii)
(vi)
provided
(ii)
(vi)
and
provided
further
 
of the Fundamental Documents, the definition of "Master Leases" shall be deemed to not include any third-party guaranties executed and delivered in connection with any of the foregoing -, so long as the terms of such guaranties do not impose any greater liability or obligations on any Credit Party under any Master Lease.
(ii)
(vi)
 
"" shall mean any event or condition that (a) has a material adverse effect on the business, assets, properties, operations or financial condition of the Credit Parties taken as a whole, (b) materially impairs the ability of the Credit Parties as a whole to perform their material obligations under the Credit Agreement or (c) materially and adversely affects the Liens granted to the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) with respect to a material portion of the Collateral and the Mortgaged Properties, or materially impairs the validity or enforceability of, or materially impairs the rights, remedies or benefits available to the Administrative Agent or the Secured Parties with respect to a material portion of the Collateral and the Mortgaged Properties under the Fundamental Documents; , , that any event or condition will be deemed to have a "Material Adverse Effect" if such event or condition when taken together with all other events and conditions occurring or in existence at such time (including all other events and conditions which, but for the fact that a representation, warranty or covenant is subject to a "Material Adverse Effect" exception, would cause such representation or warranty contained herein to be untrue or such covenant to be breached) would result in a "Material Adverse Effect", even though, individually, such event or condition would not do so.
Material Adverse Effect
provided
however
 
"" shall mean any Indebtedness of any Credit Party (other than the Obligations) which, if recourse in nature, exceeds $20,000,000 in the aggregate, and, if non-recourse in nature (other than Indebtedness under a Qualified CMBS Transaction), exceeds $50,000,000 in the aggregate.
Material Indebtedness
 
"" shall mean Master Lease No. 1, any other Master Lease of a Mortgaged Property, and any other lease in which the Borrower or any other Credit Party is the landlord, provided that such lease requires annual gross rental revenues in excess of $15 million. A "Material Lease" shall mean any such lease individually.
Material Leases
 
"" shall have the meaning given such term in .
Measurement Date
Section 6.1(a)
 
"" shall mean Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or if such company shall cease to issue ratings, another nationally recognized statistical rating company selected in good faith by mutual agreement of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower.
Moody's
 
"" shall mean a Mortgage (and/or Open End Mortgage, Deed of Trust, Trust Deed, Deed to Secure Debt, Credit Line Deed of Trust), Assignment, Security Agreement and Financing Statement, substantially in the form of hereto or, as to any existing Mortgage, a Mortgage as amended by an amendment substantially in the form of hereto (with appropriate modifications required by Applicable Law) or in such other form as may be reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, executed and delivered by any Credit Party to the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) and in each case, as such document may be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified, renewed or replaced from time to time. The form of Mortgage to be utilized hereunder with respect to a Mortgaged Property consisting of a leasehold estate shall be acceptable to the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion.
Mortgage
Exhibit D-1
Exhibit D-2
 
"" shall mean any investment in a secured note, mortgage, deed of trust, collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage-backed securities, other secured debt securities, secured debt derivative or other debt instruments, so long as such investment relates directly or indirectly to Real Property Assets of the type described in clause of the definition of "Eligible Property" hereunder.
Mortgage Investment
(a)
 
"" shall mean each Real Property Asset identified on and and each other Real Property Asset that may be added or substituted as a Mortgaged Property in accordance with the provisions hereof, in each case that is the subject of a valid perfected first mortgage Lien (or first leasehold mortgage Lien) under a Mortgage securing the Loans and the other Obligations hereunder and for which all the other mortgage Lien collateral deliverables identified for the Mortgaged Properties in shall have been provided or waived and shall be in force and effect and which will not be the subject of any Liens in favor of another party, including junior Liens, other than Permitted Encumbrances.
Mortgaged Property
Schedules 3.23(a)
3.23(b)
Section 4.1
 
"" shall mean a plan described in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which any Credit Party or ERISA Affiliate is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the five preceding plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" shall mean the aggregate cash proceeds received by a Credit Party or any Subsidiary thereof (including, without limitation, as applicable, all cash proceeds received by way of deferred payment of principal pursuant to a note or installment receivable or otherwise, but only as and when received), the following, without any duplication: (a) reasonable and customary brokerage commissions and other reasonable and customary fees and expenses related to such transaction (including reasonable and customary fees and expenses of counsel and investment bankers actually paid by the applicable Credit Party or Subsidiary and reasonable expenditures made to improve the property in connection with the applicable transaction) and (b) in each case, to the extent applicable, payments made to retire Indebtedness (other than the Loans) secured by any assets being sold or otherwise disposed of where payment of such Indebtedness is required in connection with such sale or disposition and/or reasonable amounts paid to the extent necessary to obtain the consent of any Person to the transfer of the subject asset, (c) amounts relating to Restricted Payments permitted to be made pursuant to hereof, or amounts applied to the purchase of replacement assets not prohibited by this Credit Agreement, in each case to the extent applicable, (d) any income, franchise, transfer or other tax liability of any Credit Party or any Subsidiary thereof arising from the applicable transaction; , that such taxes are payable in cash in the current year or in the next succeeding year with respect to the current year as a direct result of the applicable transaction and (e) reasonable reserves for customary indemnity obligations and purchase price adjustments in connection with asset sales permitted hereunder to the extent applicable; , , that amounts from sales and other dispositions of assets in an aggregate amount of $3,000,000 over the term of this Credit Agreement shall not be deemed to be Net Cash Proceeds.
Net Cash Proceeds
minus
Section 6.3
provided
provided
however
 
"" means Debt: (1) as to which neither Ventas nor any of its Subsidiaries (a) provides credit support of any kind (including any undertaking, agreement or instrument that would constitute Debt), other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings, (b) is directly or indirectly liable as a guarantor or otherwise, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings, or (c) constitutes the lender; (2) no default with respect to which (including any rights that the holders of the Debt may have to take enforcement action against a Special Purpose Subsidiary) would permit upon notice, lapse of time or both any holder of any other Debt (other than the Loans) of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries to declare a default
Non-Recourse Debt
 
on such other Debt or cause the payment of the Debt to be accelerated or payable prior to its stated maturity; and (3) as to which the lenders have been notified in writing that they will not have any recourse to the stock or assets of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings.
 
"" or "" shall mean the Revolving Notes, the Swingline Note and the Term Notes.
Note
Notes
 
"" shall mean a written notice of borrowing in substantially the form of .
Notice of Borrowing
Exhibit B-1
 
"" shall mean the written notice of continuation or conversion in substantially the form of , as required by .
Notice of Continuation/Conversion
Exhibit B-2
Section 2.9
 
"" shall mean (a) all obligations whether, direct or indirect, contingent or absolute, of every type or description and at any time existing, of the Borrower to make due and punctual payment of (i) principal of and all interest on the Loans, the Facility Fees, the Letter of Credit Fees, any reimbursement obligations in respect of Letters of Credit, costs and attorneys' fees and all other monetary obligations of the Borrower to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender under or in respect of this Credit Agreement, any note evidencing any of the Loans hereunder, any other Fundamental Document or the Fee Letter and (ii) all Hedging Obligations (including, without limitation, interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided in this Credit Agreement after the maturity of any of the Loans, and interest accruing at the then applicable rate provided in this Credit Agreement after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or the commencement of any insolvency, reorganization or like proceeding, relating to the Borrower or any other Credit Party, whether or not a claim for post-filing or post-petition interest is allowed in such proceeding) and (b) all other obligations of the Borrower or any other Credit Party pursuant to this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document.
Obligations
 
"" shall mean (a) with respect to any corporation, the certificate or articles of incorporation and bylaws; (b) with respect to any limited liability company, the certificate or articles of formation and operating agreement; and (c) with respect to any partnership, joint venture or other form of business entity, the partnership agreement and any agreement, filing or notice with respect thereto filed with the secretary of state of the state of its formation, in each case as amended from time to time.
Organizational Documents
 
"" shall mean the purchase by a Lender of a participation in LOC Obligations as provided in , in Swingline Loans as provided in and in Loans as provided in .
Participation Interest
Section 2.16(b)
Section 2.17
Section 2.21
 
"" shall mean the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation or any successor thereto.
PBGC
 
"" shall mean the business activities not prohibited under , plus any other business Ventas and its Subsidiaries are engaged in on the Closing Date and such business activities as are complementary, incidental, ancillary or related to, or are reasonable extensions of, the foregoing.
Permitted Business
Section 6.10
 
"" shall mean (i) Permitted Refinancing Debt, and (ii) Debt under this Credit Agreement (including all Permitted Refinancing Debt incurred with respect hereto).
Permitted Debt
 
"" shall mean Liens permitted under hereof.
Permitted Encumbrances
Section 6.2
 
"" shall mean:
Permitted Investment
 
(i) any Investment in Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries;
 
(ii) any Investment in Cash Equivalents;
 
(iii) any Investment by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries in a Person, if as a result of such Investment (A) such Person becomes a Subsidiary of Ventas or such Subsidiary and a Guarantor; or (B) such Person is merged, consolidated or amalgamated with or into, or transfers or conveys substantially all of its assets to, or is liquidated into, Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries that is a Guarantor;
 
(iv) any Investment made as result of the receipt of non-cash consideration from an Asset Disposition otherwise permitted hereunder;
 
(v) any Acquisition to the extent made in exchange for the issuance of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of Ventas or the Borrower;
 
(vi) any Investments received in compromise of obligations of trade creditors or customers that were incurred in the ordinary course of business, including pursuant to any plan of reorganization or similar arrangement upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of any trade creditor or customer;
 
(vii) Hedging Obligations otherwise permitted hereunder;
 
(viii) intercompany Debt and Guaranties, in either case, to the extent permitted under ;
Section 6.1
 
(ix) any Investment by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries acquired as a result of a transfer of assets to a Special Purpose Subsidiary in connection with a Qualified CMBS Transaction otherwise permitted hereunder;
 
(x) any Investments in Permitted Joint Ventures that, when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause since the Closing Date, do not exceed the greater of (i) $50 million or (ii) 5% of Ventas' Consolidated Net Tangible Assets;
(x)
 
(xi) any Mortgage Investment; and
 
(xii) other Investments in any Person having an aggregate fair market value (measured on the date each such Investment was made and without giving effect to subsequent changes in value) that, when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause since the Closing Date, do not exceed $50 million.
(xii)
 
"" shall mean any entity owned 50% or more by Ventas and/or any of its Subsidiaries, if (i) such entity is engaged in a Permitted Business and (ii) Ventas has the right to appoint at least half of the Board of Directors or similar governing body of such entity.
Permitted Joint Venture
 
"" shall mean any Debt of Ventas and its Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace,
Permitted Refinancing Debt
 
defease or refund other Debt of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries (other than intercompany Debt); , that:
provided
however
 
(i) the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of such Permitted Refinancing Debt does not exceed the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of the Debt extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded (plus all accrued interest on the Debt and the amount of all expenses and premiums incurred in connection therewith);
 
(ii) such Permitted Refinancing Debt has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and has a Weighted Average Life to Maturity equal to or greater than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of, the Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded;
 
(iii) if the Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded is subordinated in right of payment to the Loans and Obligations under this Credit Agreement, such Permitted Refinancing Debt has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and is subordinated in right of payment to, the Loans and Obligations under this Credit Agreement on terms at least as favorable to the holders of the Loans and Obligations under this Credit Agreement as those contained in the documentation governing the Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded; and
 
(iv) such Debt is incurred either by Ventas or by one of its Subsidiaries who is the obligor of the Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded.
 
"" shall mean any natural person, corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, estate, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
"" shall mean an employee pension benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(2) of ERISA, other than a Multiemployer Plan, maintained or contributed to by any Credit Party or any ERISA Affiliate, or otherwise pursuant to which any Credit Party could have liability.
Plan
 
"" shall mean any real property currently or formerly owned, leased or operated by any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party, including, but not limited to, all soil, surface water, or groundwater thereat.
Premises
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in hereof.
Prepayment Date
Section 2.7(f)
 
"" shall mean, for any applicable period, the rate per annum in effect for such day as publicly announced from time to time by Bank of America as its "prime rate", changing as and when such rate changes are so announced. Such rate is a rate set by Bank of America based upon various factors including Bank of America's costs and desired return, general economic conditions and other factors, and is used as a reference point for pricing some loans, which may be priced at, above, or below such announced rate. Any change in such rate announced by Bank of America shall take effect at the opening of business on the day specified in the public announcement of such change.
Prime Rate
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the Introductory Statement of this Credit Agreement.
Prior Credit Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the Introductory Statement of this Credit Agreement.
Prior Term Loan
 
"" shall mean, for purposes of determining the applicable pricing level under the definition of "Applicable Percentage", determining Consolidated EBITDA and determining compliance with the Stipulated Debt Service Coverage Ratio and any financial covenant hereunder, that the subject transaction shall be deemed to have occurred as of the first day of the period of four consecutive fiscal quarters ending as of the end of the most recent fiscal quarter for which annual or quarterly financial statements shall have been delivered in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement. Further, for purposes of making calculations on a "Pro Forma Basis" hereunder, (i) in the case of an Asset Disposition, (A) income statement items (whether positive or negative) attributable to the property, entities or business units that are the subject of such Asset Disposition shall be excluded to the extent relating to any period prior to the date of the subject transaction, and (B) Indebtedness paid or retired in connection with the subject transaction shall be deemed to have been paid and retired as of the first day of the applicable period; (ii) in the case of an Acquisition, (A) income statement items (whether positive or negative) attributable to the property, entities or business units that are the subject of such Acquisition shall be included to the extent relating to any period prior to the date of the subject transaction, and (B) Indebtedness incurred in connection with the subject transaction shall be deemed to have been incurred as of the first day of the applicable period (and interest expense shall be imputed for the applicable period utilizing the actual interest rates thereunder or, if actual rates are not ascertainable, assuming prevailing interest rates hereunder) and (iii) in the case of the issuance or exercise of an Equity Interest, Indebtedness paid or retired in connection therewith shall be deemed to have been paid and retired as of the first day of the applicable period.
Pro Forma Basis
 
"" shall mean, with regard to each Mortgaged Property, (i) initially, the market value for the leased fee interest (or the leasehold interest, as applicable) in such Mortgaged Property determined by a Valuation delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to and set forth on or , and (ii) thereafter, the market value for the leased fee interest (or the leasehold interest, as applicable) in such Mortgaged Property (or an added or substituted Mortgaged Property) determined in accordance with the most recent Valuation conducted in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement, or as otherwise agreed by the Borrower and the Required Lenders.
Property Value
Section 4.1(k)(vi)
Schedule 3.23(a)
3.23(b)
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in .
Purchasing Lender
Section 2.11(e)
 
"" shall mean (i) the CMBS Transaction and (ii) any other transaction or series of transactions entered into by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to which Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries sells, conveys or otherwise transfers to a Special Purpose Subsidiary or grants a security interest in, any Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables (whether now existing or arising in the future) of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries, and any assets related thereto including, without limitation, all collateral securing such Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables, all contracts and all guarantees or other obligations in respect of such Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables, proceeds of such Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables and other assets which are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables.
Qualified CMBS Transaction
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in the definition of "Applicable Percentage".
Rate Determination Date
 
"" shall mean, as of any date, the real estate assets of Ventas and its Subsidiaries on such date, on a consolidated basis, determined in accordance with GAAP.
Real Estate Assets
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Real Estate Asset of Ventas and its Subsidiaries owned as of the 2002 Closing Date, the rental revenues generated by such Real Estate Asset for Ventas and its Subsidiaries during the four-quarter period ending March 31, 2002 all as set forth on .
Real Estate Revenues
Schedule 1.1(b)
 
"" shall mean as of any time, all parcels of real property, owned or leased at such time directly or indirectly by any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party, together with in each case, all buildings, improvements, appurtenant fixtures and equipment, easements and other property and rights incidental to the ownership or lease (as applicable) of such parcel of real property or any of the foregoing; , , that Real Property Assets shall not include (x) any property subject to a Sandwich Lease or any Qualified CMBS Transaction and (y) the Borrower's corporate offices
Real Property Assets
provided
however
.
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in .
Register
Section 12.3(e)
 
"" shall mean Regulation D of the Board as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
Regulation D
 
"" shall mean Regulation U of the Board as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
Regulation U
 
"" shall mean Regulation X of the Board as from time to time in effect and all official rulings and interpretations thereunder or thereof.
Regulation X
 
"" shall mean a real estate investment trust as defined in Sections 856-860 of the Code.
REIT
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Lender that is a Fund that invests in the type of credit extended hereunder, any other Fund that (i) invests in such type of credit, (ii) is advised or managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender, and (iii) has been advised or managed by such same investment advisor for a period of not less than 120 days.
Related Fund
 
"" shall mean any discharging, disposing, emitting, leaking, pumping, pouring, emptying, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping or spilling of any Hazardous Material into the Environment.
Release
 
"" shall mean any reportable event as defined in Section 4043(c) of ERISA.
Reportable Event
 
"" shall mean, at any time, Lenders having in the aggregate more than fifty percent (50%) of the Commitments or, if the Commitments have been terminated, Lenders having in the aggregate more than fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate principal amount of the Loan Obligations outstanding (taking into account in each case Participation Interests or obligations to participate therein); that the Commitments of, and outstanding principal amount of Loan Obligations (taking into account Participation Interests or obligations to
Required Lenders
provided
 
participate therein) owing to, a Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes hereof in making a determination of Required Lenders.
 
"" shall mean, at any time, Revolving Lenders having in the aggregate more than fifty percent (50%) of the Revolving Commitments or, if the Revolving Commitments have been terminated, Lenders having in the aggregate more than fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate principal amount of the Revolving Obligations outstanding (taking into account in each case Participation Interests or obligations to participate therein); that the Revolving Commitments of, and outstanding principal amount of Revolving Obligations (taking into account Participation Interests or obligations to participate therein) owing to, a Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes hereof in making a determination of Required Revolving Lenders.
Required Revolving Lenders
provided
 
"" shall mean, at any time, Tranche B Term Lenders having in the aggregate more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding principal amount of the Tranche B Term Loan (taking into account obligations to participate therein); that the outstanding principal amount of the Tranche B Term Loan (taking into account obligations to participate therein) owing to, a Defaulting Lender shall be excluded for purposes hereof in making a determination of Required Tranche B Term Lenders.
Required Tranche B Term Lenders
provided
 
"" shall mean all applicable present and future laws, statutes, codes, ordinances, orders, judgments, decrees, injunctions, rules, regulations and requirements of every Governmental Authority having jurisdiction over any Credit Party or any Mortgaged Property or Collateral and all restrictive covenants applicable to any Mortgaged Property.
Requirements
 
"" shall mean an Investment other than a Permitted Investment.
Restricted Investment
 
"" shall have the meaning given such term in .
Restricted Payment
Section 6.3
 
"" shall mean the commitment of a Lender to make Revolving Loans to the Borrower and to participate in Letters of Credit from the Initial Date applicable to such Lender through the Revolving Commitment Termination Date, up to an aggregate amount, at any one time outstanding, not in excess of the amount set forth (i) opposite such Lender's name under the column entitled "Revolving Commitment" on , or (ii) in any applicable Assignment and Assumption(s) to which such Lender may be a party, as the case may be, as such amount may be reduced or increased from time to time in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, pursuant to hereof).
Revolving Commitment
Schedule 1
Section 12.11
 
"" shall mean, for each Lender, a fraction (expressed as a percentage) the numerator of which is the Revolving Commitment of such Lender at such time and the denominator of which is the Total Revolving Committed Amount at such time. The initial Revolving Commitment Percentage of each Lender is set forth on .
Revolving Commitment Percentage
Schedule 1
 
"" shall mean September 8, 2007, as such date may be extended hereunder.
Revolving Commitment Termination Date
 
"" shall mean any Lender holding a Revolving Commitment hereunder.
Revolving Lender
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in hereof.
Revolving Loans
Section 2.1(a)
 
"" or "" shall mean the promissory notes in favor of each of the Lenders evidencing the Revolving Loans in substantially the form attached as , individually or collectively, as appropriate, as such promissory notes may be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed or replaced from time to time.
Revolving Note
Revolving Notes
Exhibit F-1
 
"" shall mean, as of any date, the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Loans outstanding the aggregate principal amount of LOC Obligations outstanding the aggregate principal amount of Swingline Loans outstanding on such date.
Revolving Obligations
plus
plus
 
"" shall mean Standard & Poor's Ratings Group (presently a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.) or, if such company shall cease to issue ratings, another nationally recognized statistical rating company selected in good faith by mutual agreement of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower.
S&P
 
"" shall mean any and all leases, subleases, guaranties and other agreements described on hereto.
Sandwich Leases
Schedule 1.1(a)
 
"" shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission, or any successor thereto.
SEC
 
"" shall mean any extension of the deadline for the filing of any report, statement or other matter with, or required by, the SEC.
SEC Filing Extension
 
"" shall mean all Debt of Ventas and its Subsidiaries secured by a mortgage, lien, charge, pledge or security interest or other encumbrance on the property of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries.
Secured Debt
 
"" shall mean the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank, the Lenders and the Hedging Banks, and each of their respective successors and assigns.
Secured Parties
 
"" shall mean any financing transaction or series of financing transactions that have been or may be entered into by Ventas or any of its Consolidated Subsidiaries pursuant to which such Person may sell, convey or otherwise transfer to (i) a Subsidiary or Affiliate (a ""), or (ii) any other Person, or may grant a security interest in, any accounts receivable, notes receivable, rights to future lease payments or residuals or other similar rights to payment ("") (whether such Securitization Receivables are then existing or arising in the future) of such Person, and any assets related thereto, including, without limitation, all security interests in merchandise or services financed thereby, the proceeds of such Securitization Receivables, and other assets that are customarily sold or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with securitization transactions involving such assets.
Securitization Transaction
Securitization Subsidiary
Securitization Receivables
 
"" shall mean (i) Ventas Finance I, Inc., Ventas Specialty I, Inc., Ventas Finance I, LLC, and Ventas Specialty I, LLC, and (ii) any Subsidiary Entity of Ventas or any successor to any of them (other than the Borrower and Ventas Capital Corporation) that is designated by the Ventas Board of Directors as a Special Purpose Subsidiary pursuant to a board resolution, but only to the extent that such Subsidiary Entity: (1) has no Debt other than Non-Recourse Debt; (2) is not party to any agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding with Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries unless the terms of any such agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding are no less favorable to Ventas or such Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons who are not Affiliates of Ventas; (3) is a Person with
Special Purpose Subsidiaries
 
respect to which neither Ventas nor any of its Subsidiaries has any direct or indirect obligation (a) to subscribe for additional Equity Interests or (b) to maintain or preserve such Person's financial condition or to cause such Person to achieve any specified levels of operating results; (4) has not guaranteed or otherwise directly or indirectly provided credit support for any Debt of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings; and (5) has at least one director on its Board of Directors that is not a director or executive officer of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries and has at least one executive officer that is not a director or executive officer of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries. Any designation of a Subsidiary Entity of Ventas as a Special Purpose Subsidiary will be evidenced to the Agent by delivering to the Agent a certified copy of the board resolution giving effect to such designation and an officers' certificate certifying that such designation complied with the preceding conditions and was permitted by hereof. If, at any time, any Special Purpose Subsidiary would fail to meet the preceding requirements as a Special Purpose Subsidiary, it will thereafter cease to be a Special Purpose Subsidiary and any Debt of such Subsidiary Entity will be deemed to be incurred by a Subsidiary of Ventas, as of such date and, if such Debt is not permitted to be incurred as of such date by hereof, Ventas will be in default of such section.
Section 6.3
Section 6.1
 
"" shall mean representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into by Ventas or any Subsidiary which are reasonably customary in a Qualified CMBS Transactions by the parent or sponsoring entity.
Standard Securitization Undertakings
 
"" shall have the meaning provided in .
Standby Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.5(b)(i)
 
"" shall mean the aggregate amount of annual principal and interest payments that would be due and payable in a given year, utilizing (for purposes of said calculation purposes only) the following factors:
Stipulated Debt Service
 
 
Any such computation of Stipulated Debt Service shall be made solely for purposes of calculating the Stipulated Debt Service Coverage Ratio under this Credit Agreement, and no such Stipulated Debt Service amount, nor any factors used in calculating the same, shall amend, waive or otherwise alter the manner in which the actual principal and interest payments due and payable from the Borrower are determined under this Credit Agreement with respect to any Revolving Loan, the Tranche B Term Loan (if applicable), any Swingline Loan or any LOC Obligations.
 
"" shall mean, as of each measurement date, the ratio of (i) Borrowing Base Rental Income to (ii) Stipulated Debt Service.
Stipulated Debt Service Coverage Ratio
 
"" shall mean Debt which by the terms of such Debt is subordinated in right of payment to the principal of and interest and premium, if any, on the Loans and Obligations owing hereunder and the guaranties thereof.
Subordinated Debt
 
"" shall mean with respect to any Person, any corporation, association, joint venture, partnership or other business entity (whether now existing or hereafter organized) of
Subsidiary
 
which at least a majority of the voting stock or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power for the election of directors (or the equivalent) is, at the time as of which any determination is being made, owned or controlled by such Person or one or more subsidiaries of such Person or by such Person and one or more subsidiaries of such Person; , , that the Special Purpose Subsidiaries shall not be deemed to be Subsidiaries of Ventas, except to the following extent: (i) they shall be Subsidiaries for purposes of the definition of "Joint Venture" herein, the representations and warranties contained in and hereof, and the Credit Parties' compliance with hereof, and (ii) if they would be required to be consolidated with Ventas for financial reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP, then they shall be Consolidated Subsidiaries for purposes of , and hereof and for purposes of determining Consolidated EBITDA, Consolidated Fixed Charges, Consolidated Funded Debt, Consolidated Interest Expense, Consolidated Net Income, Consolidated Gross Asset Value and Consolidated Total Liabilities.
provided
however
Sections 3.7
3.19
Section 5.12(a)
Sections 5.1(a)
(b)
(n)
 
"" means, for any Person, any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the Capital Stock of such Person (that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person) is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more other Subsidiary Entities of such Person.
Subsidiary Entity
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, all direct or indirect investments by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the forms of loans (including Guarantees or other obligations), advances or capital contributions (excluding commission, travel and similar advances to directors, officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Debt, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP. "Subsidiary Investments" shall exclude extensions of trade credit on commercially reasonable terms in accordance with normal trade practices.
Subsidiary Investments
 
"" shall mean, with respect to the Swingline Lender, the commitment of the Swingline Lender to make Swingline Loans hereunder and, with respect to each other Lender, the commitment of such Lender to purchase Participation Interests in Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Commitment
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in .
Swingline Committed Amount
Section 2.1(c)
 
"" shall mean Bank of America.
Swingline Lender
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in .
Swingline Loan
Section 2.1(c)
 
"" shall mean the promissory note in favor of the Swingline Lender evidencing the Swingline Loans, as such note may be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed or replaced from time to time.
Swingline Note
 
"" shall mean any synthetic lease, tax retention operating lease, off-balance sheet loan or similar off-balance sheet financing product where such transaction is considered borrowed money indebtedness for tax purposes but is classified as an operating lease under GAAP.
Synthetic Lease
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person, for any period, the combined federal, state and local income taxes that would be paid by such Person if it were a Delaware
Tax Amount
 
corporation filing separate tax returns with respect to its Taxable Income for such period; provided, however, that in determining the Tax Amount, the effect thereon of any net operating loss carryforwards or other carryforwards or tax attributes, such as alternative minimum tax carryforwards, that would have arisen if such Person were a Delaware corporation shall be taken into account. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Tax Amount shall not include taxes resulting from such Person's reorganization as or change in its status to a corporation.
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Person for any period, the taxable income or loss of such Person for such period for federal income tax purposes; provided, however that (i) all items of income, gain, loss or deduction required to be state separately pursuant to Section 703(a)(1) of the Code shall be included in taxable income or loss, (ii) any basis adjustment made in connection with an election under Section 754 of the Code shall be disregarded and (iii) such taxable income shall be increased or such taxable loss shall be decreased by the amount of any interest expense incurred by such Person that is not treated as deductible for federal income tax purposes by a partner or member of such Person.
Taxable Income
 
"" shall mean any Person who beneficially owns 10% or more of the total voting power of the Capital Stock that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of Ventas.
10% Stockholder
 
"" shall mean the Tranche B Term Lenders, if applicable.
Term Lenders
 
"" shall mean the Tranche B Term Loan, if applicable.
Term Loan
 
"" shall mean the Tranche B Term Loan Commitment, if applicable.
Term Loan Commitment
 
"" or "" shall mean the promissory notes in favor of each of the Lenders evidencing the Tranche B Term Loan, if applicable, in substantially the form attached as , individually or collectively, as appropriate, as such promissory notes may be amended, modified, supplemented, extended, renewed or replaced from time to time.
Term Note
Term Notes
Exhibit F-2
 
"" shall mean First American Title Insurance Company or any other title insurance company of recognized national standing which is acceptable to the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion.
Title Company
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Mortgaged Property, a mortgagee policy of title insurance (ALTA or the equivalent) insuring the Mortgage as a first priority Lien on such Mortgaged Property in favor of the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties), free of all Liens other than Permitted Encumbrances or such Liens as may be noted on such policy of title insurance and acceptable to the Administrative Agent, which policy of title insurance shall be issued by a Title Company in a policy amount reasonably acceptable to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (but with the aggregate amount of title insurance to be provided by all of the Title Policies as to all of the Mortgaged Properties not to exceed $300,000,000.00) and with endorsements and exceptions to coverage reasonably acceptable to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent.
Title Policy
 
"" shall mean, as of any date, the sum of (i) in the case of any Real Estate Assets that were owned as of the 2002 Closing Date and that are owned as of such date, the Real Estate Revenues specified for such Real Estate Assets on , divided by 0.10, plus (ii) the costs (original costs plus capital improvements before depreciation and amortization) of
Total Assets
Schedule 1.1(b)
 
all Real Estate Assets acquired after the 2002 Closing Date that are then owned by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries and (iii) the book value of all assets (excluding Real Estate Assets and intangibles) of Ventas and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
"" shall mean the aggregate amount of the Revolving Commitments and the Tranche B Term Loan Commitment.
Total Commitments
 
"" shall have the meaning given to such term in .
Total Revolving Committed Amount
Section 2.1(a)
 
"" shall mean, as of any date, the Total Assets of Ventas and its Subsidiaries as of such date that do not secure any portion of Secured Debt, on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP.
Total Unencumbered Assets
 
"" shall have the meaning provided in .
Trade Letter of Credit Fee
Section 2.5(b)(ii)
 
"" shall mean, upon establishment of a Tranche B Term Loan facility under and until the funding of the Tranche B Term Loan, Lenders holding Tranche B Term Loan Commitments and, thereafter, Lenders holding Tranche B Term Loans.
Tranche B Term Lenders
Section 2.1(d)
 
"" shall have the meaning given such term in .
Tranche B Term Loan
Section 2.1(d)
 
"" shall mean, upon establishment of a Tranche B Term Loan facility under , the commitment of each Tranche B Term Lender to make its portion of the Tranche B Term Loan hereunder, being the dollar amount set forth opposite such Lender's name on hereto, as such amount may be reduced or changed pursuant to and ; that for purposes of making determinations of Required Lenders hereunder and for other purposes after date of advance of Tranche B Term Loan, the principal amount of the "" hereunder shall be the outstanding principal amount of the Tranche B Term Loan.
Tranche B Term Loan Commitment
Section 2.1(d)
Schedule 1
Sections 2.1(f)
2.7
provided
Tranche B Term Loan Commitments
 
"" shall mean with respect to any Tranche B Term Lender, the percentage of the aggregate Tranche B Term Loan Commitments represented by such Lender's Tranche B Term Loan Commitment.
Tranche B Term Loan Commitment Percentage
 
"" shall mean the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in the State of New York at the relevant time.
UCC
 
"" shall mean any Debt of Ventas or its Subsidiaries that is not Secured Debt.
Unsecured Debt
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Mortgaged Property, a formal appraisal or other valuation of the market value of the leased fee interest (or leasehold interest, as applicable) in such Mortgaged Property in form and substance acceptable to the Administrative Agent prepared by a reputable appraiser or other valuation professional reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent; that, if so required by Applicable Law or, following an Event of Default, if required by the Administrative Agent, such valuation, in the judgment of counsel to the Administrative Agent, shall be an appraisal that complies with all of the provisions of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, as amended, the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and all other requirements of Applicable Law.
Valuation
provided
 
"" shall mean Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its permitted successors.
Ventas
 
"" shall mean any and all preferred stock or other equity securities in Ventas, which enjoy a prior right of dividend payment vis--vis the common stock of Ventas.
Ventas Preferred Stock
 
"" shall mean, when applied to any Debt at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
 
(a) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying (i) the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect of the Debt, by (ii) the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment; by
 
(b) the then outstanding principal amount of such Debt.
 
Section 1.2 .
Accounting Terms
 
(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted, and all financial statements and certificates and reports as to financial matters required to be delivered to the Lenders hereunder shall be prepared in accordance with GAAP. All calculations made for the purposes of determining compliance with this Credit Agreement shall (except as otherwise expressly provided herein) be made by application of GAAP on a basis consistent with the most recent annual or quarterly financial statements delivered pursuant to (or, prior to the delivery of the first financial statements pursuant to , consistent with the annual audited financial statements referenced in hereof); , , if (i) the Borrower shall object to determining such compliance on such basis at the time of delivery of such financial statements due to any change in GAAP or the rules promulgated with respect thereto or (ii) the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders shall so object in writing within sixty days after delivery of such financial statements, then such calculations shall be made on a basis consistent with the most recent financial statements delivered by the Credit Parties to the Lenders as to which no such objection shall have been made. Any other prorations utilized by the Borrower in making any calculation under this Credit Agreement shall be subject to the approval of the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion.
Section 5.1
Section 5.1
Section 3.6(a)
provided
however
 
(b) Determinations of (i) the applicable pricing level under the definition of "Applicable Percentage", (ii) compliance with the financial covenants hereunder and (iii) the Stipulated Debt Service Coverage Ratio shall be made on a Pro Forma Basis.
 
Section 1.3 .
Letter of Credit Amounts
 
Unless otherwise specified, all references herein to the amount of a Letter of Credit at any time shall be deemed to mean the maximum face amount of such Letter of Credit after giving effect to all increases thereof contemplated by such Letter of Credit or the LOC Documents related thereto, whether or not such maximum face amount is in effect at such time.
 
 
 
Section 2.1 .
Commitments
 
(a) . During the Commitment Period, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, each Revolving Lender severally agrees to make revolving credit loans (the "") to the Borrower in Dollars from time to time in the amount of such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment Percentage of the Revolving Loans requested by the Borrower hereunder for the purposes hereinafter set forth; that (i) the aggregate principal amount of Revolving Obligations outstanding shall not at any time exceed THREE HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS ($300,000,000) (as such amount may be increased or reduced from time to time in accordance with the provisions hereof, the ""), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Loan Obligations outstanding shall not at any time exceed the Borrowing Base, and (iii) with regard to each Revolving Lender individually, such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment Percentage of the Revolving Obligations outstanding shall not at any time exceed such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment. Revolving Loans may consist of Base Rate Loans or Eurodollar Rate Loans, or a combination thereof, as the Borrower may request, and may be repaid and reborrowed in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Revolving Commitment
Revolving Loans
provided
Total Revolving Committed Amount
 
(b) . During the Commitment Period, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, if any, and such other terms and conditions which the Issuing Bank may require, the Issuing Bank shall issue, and the Revolving Lenders shall participate in, such Letters of Credit in Dollars as the Borrower may request for its own account or for the account of another Credit Party as provided herein, in a form acceptable to the Issuing Bank, for the purposes hereinafter set forth; that (i) the aggregate principal amount of LOC Obligations shall not at any time exceed THIRTY MILLION DOLLARS ($30,000,000) (as such amount may be increased in accordance with the provisions of or decreased in accordance with the provisions of , the ""), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Revolving Obligations outstanding at any time shall not exceed the Total Revolving Committed Amount, (iii) the aggregate principal amount of Loan Obligations outstanding shall not at any time exceed the Borrowing Base, and (iv) with regard to each Revolving Lender individually, such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment Percentage of Revolving Obligations outstanding at any time shall not exceed such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment. Letters of Credit shall not have an original expiry date more than one year from the date of issuance or extension. No Letter of Credit shall be issued during the six-month period immediately prior to the Revolving Commitment Termination Date or have an expiry date, whether as originally issued or by extension, extending beyond the Revolving Commitment Termination Date. The issuance date of each Letter of Credit shall be a Business Day.
Letter of Credit Commitment
provided
Section 2.1(e)(vii)
Section 2.6(b)
LOC Committed Amount
 
(c) . During the Commitment Period, subject to the terms and conditions hereof, the Swingline Lender agrees to make certain revolving credit loans (the "") to the Borrower in Dollars from time to time for the purposes hereinafter set forth; that (i) the aggregate principal amount of Swingline Loans outstanding shall not at any time exceed FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($50,000,000) (as such amount may be increased in accordance with the provisions of or decreased in accordance with the provisions of , the "") and (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Loan Obligations outstanding shall not at any time exceed the Borrowing Base. Each Swingline Loan shall be repaid three (3) days after the date of borrowing and shall be a Base Rate Loan. Swingline Loans may be repaid and reborrowed in accordance with the provisions hereof.
Swingline Commitment
Swingline Loans
provided
Section 2.1(e)(vii)
Section 2.6(b)
Swingline Committed Amount
 
(d) . At any time after the Closing Date, the Borrower may elect to establish a Tranche B Term Loan hereunder as provided in below, and in such case, each Lender with a Tranche B Term Loan Commitment will severally agree to make its Tranche B Term Loan Commitment Percentage of a term loan (the "") in Dollars to the Borrower in the aggregate principal amount of the Tranche B Term Loan established thereunder. Amounts repaid on the Tranche B Term Loan may not be reborrowed.
Term Loan Commitment
Section 2.1(f)
Tranche B Term Loan
 
(e) . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may at any time upon notice to the Administrative Agent increase the Total Revolving Committed Amount by up to One Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($150,000,000) to not more than an aggregate principal amount of FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($450,000,000); that:
Increase in Total Revolving Committed Amount
provided
 
(i) each increase in the Revolving Commitment of an existing Lender and each new Revolving Commitment from a new Lender shall be in a minimum aggregate principal amount of $5,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (or the remaining amount, if less);
 
(ii) the conditions to the making of a Revolving Loan set forth in shall have been satisfied or waived;
Section 4.2
 
(iii) the Borrower shall obtain commitments for the amount of the increase from existing Lenders or other commercial banks or financial institutions that would qualify as Eligible Assignees; that such other commercial banks and financial institutions join in this Credit Agreement as Lenders by joinder agreement or other arrangement reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent;
provided
 
(iv) if any Revolving Loans are outstanding at the time of any such increase, the Borrower shall make such payments and adjustments on the Revolving Loans (including payment of any amounts owing under ) as necessary to give effect to the revised commitment percentages and commitment amounts;
Section 2.10
 
(v) after giving effect to any such increase, the Total Commitments shall not exceed FOUR HUNDRED FIFTY MILLION DOLLARS ($450,000,000);
 
(vi) in connection with any such increase, (A) shall be revised to reflect the Revolving Commitments, Revolving Commitment Percentages, Tranche B Term Loan Commitments and Tranche B Term Loan Commitment Percentages of the Lenders after giving effect thereto, (B) the Borrower will provide supporting corporate resolutions, legal opinions, notes and other items as may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in connection therewith, and (C) the Borrower will pay all fees and expenses related thereto; and
Schedule 1
 
(vii) on any date that the Total Revolving Committed Amount is increased pursuant to this , the LOC Committed Amount shall also be increased proportionately to an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the Total Revolving Committed Amount, and the Swingline Committed Amount shall also be increased proportionately to an amount equal to the lesser of (i) twenty percent (20%) of the Total Revolving Committed Amount, or (ii) $50,000,000.
Section 2.1(e)
 
(f) . At any time during the Commitment Period, subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrower may request the Tranche B Term Loan upon notice to the Administrative Agent; that:
Establishment of the Tranche B Term Loan
provided
 
(i) the Tranche B Term Loan shall be made in a single funding in the amount requested by the Borrower in an aggregate principal amount not greater than the remaining unused portion of the Total Commitments;
 
(ii) the conditions precedent to the making of a Loan set forth in shall be satisfied or waived by both (A) the Required Revolving Lenders and (B) the Required Tranche B Term Lenders on or prior to the date of funding of the Tranche B Term Loan;
Section 4.2
 
(iii) the Borrower shall obtain Tranche B Term Loan Commitments for the amount of the Tranche B Term Loan from existing Lenders or other commercial banks or financial institutions that would be Eligible Assignees; that such other commercial banks and financial institutions join in this Credit Agreement as Lenders by joinder agreement or other arrangement reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent (confirming, among other things, the Applicable Percentage for the Tranche B Term Loan). The Total Commitments shall not exceed $450,000,000 and the Loan Obligations after giving effect to such Tranche B Term Loan shall not exceed the Borrowing Base; and
provided
 
(iv) in connection with the Tranche B Term Loan, (A) shall be revised to reflect the Revolving Commitments, Revolving Commitment Percentages, Tranche B Term Loan Commitments and Tranche B Term Loan Commitment Percentages of the Lenders after giving effect thereto, (B) the Borrower will provide supporting corporate resolutions, legal opinions, notes and other items as may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in connection therewith, and (C) the Borrower will pay all fees and expenses related thereto.
Schedule 1
 
(g) . The Borrower may, at its option, on a one-time basis, elect to extend the Revolving Commitment Termination Date for an additional period of one year to September 8, 2008; that:
One Time Extension of Revolving Commitment Termination Date
provided
 
(i) the Borrower shall give written notice to the Administrative Agent of its election to extend the Revolving Commitment Termination Date not less than thirty (30) days, prior to the original Revolving Commitment Termination Date;
 
(ii) the conditions precedent to the making of a Loan set forth in and of shall be satisfied or waived by the Required Revolving Lenders on the date of the request for extension and the Borrower shall give written confirmation thereof;
subsections (b)
(c)
Section 4.2
 
(iii) receipt by the Administrative Agent of an updated and current Valuation for the Mortgaged Properties; and
 
(iv) receipt by the Administrative Agent of payment by the Borrower of an extension fee of twenty basis points (0.20%) on the aggregate amount of Revolving Commitments for the ratable benefit of the Revolving Lenders.
 
Section 2.2 .
Method of Borrowing
 
(a) . The Borrower shall request an Extension of Credit by submitting a Notice of Borrowing or a Letter of Credit Application, as applicable (or by telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing) as follows:
Method of Borrowing
 
(i) . In the case of Revolving Loans, by submitting a Notice of Borrowing to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the Business Day prior to the date of the requested borrowing in the case of Base Rate Loans, and on the third Business Day prior to the date of the requested borrowing in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans. Each such Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and shall specify (A) that a Revolving Loan is requested, (B) the date of the requested borrowing (which shall be a Business Day), (C) the aggregate principal amount to be borrowed, and (D) whether the borrowing shall be comprised of Base Rate Loans, Eurodollar Rate Loans or a combination thereof, and if Eurodollar Rate Loans are requested, the Interest Period(s) therefor; that if in connection with any such request for a Revolving Loan, the Borrower shall fail to specify (i) an applicable Interest Period in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested an Interest Period of one month or (ii) the Interest Rate Type for the Revolving Loan requested, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Base Rate Loan. The Administrative Agent shall give notice to each Revolving Lender promptly upon receipt of each Notice of Borrowing pursuant to this , the contents thereof and such Revolving Lender's share of any borrowing to be made pursuant thereto.
Revolving Loans
provided
Section 2.2(a)
 
(ii) . In the case of Letters of Credit, by submitting a Letter of Credit Application, appropriately completed and signed by an Authorized Officer of the Borrower, to the Issuing Bank (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) not later than 11:00 a.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the third Business Day prior to the date of the requested issuance or extension (or such shorter period as may be agreed by the Issuing Bank). Each such Letter of Credit Application shall be irrevocable and shall specify in form and details satisfactory to the Issuing Bank, among other things, (A) the proposed issuance date of the requested Letter of Credit (which shall be a Business Day); (B) the amount thereof; (C) the expiry date thereof; (D) the name and address of the beneficiary thereof; (E) the documents to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; (F) the full text of any certificate to be presented by such beneficiary in case of any drawing thereunder; and (G) such other matters as the Issuing Bank may reasonably require. In the case of a request for an amendment of any outstanding Letter of Credit, such Letter of Credit Application shall specify in form and detail satisfactory to the Issuing Bank (A) the Letter of Credit to be amended; (B) the proposed date of amendment thereof (which shall be a Business Day); (C) the nature of the proposed amendment; and (D) such other matters as the Issuing Bank may reasonably require. Additionally, the Borrower shall furnish to the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent such other documents and information pertaining to such requested Letter of Credit issuance or amendment, including any LOC Documents, as the Issuing Bank or the Administrative Agent may reasonably require.
Letters of Credit
 
(iii) . In the case of Swingline Loans, to the Swingline Lender with a copy to the Administrative Agent not later than 2:00 p.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the Business Day of the requested borrowing. Each such request for borrowing shall be irrevocable and shall specify (A) that a Swingline Loan is requested, (B) the date of the requested borrowing (which shall be a Business Day) and (C) the aggregate principal amount to be borrowed.
Swingline Loans
 
(iv) . In the case of a Tranche B Term Loan, to the Administrative Agent not later than 11:00 a.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the day of the requested borrowing
Term Loan
 
in the case of Base Rate Loans, and on the third Business Day prior to the day of the requested borrowing in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans. Such request for borrowing of a Tranche B Term Loan shall be irrevocable and shall specify (A) that an advance of the Tranche B Term Loan is requested, (B) the aggregate principal amount to be borrowed, and (C) whether the borrowing shall be comprised of Base Rate Loans, Eurodollar Rate Loans or a combination thereof, and if Eurodollar Rate Loans are requested, the Interest Period(s) therefor; that if the Borrower shall fail to specify (i) an applicable Interest Period in the case of a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested an Interest Period of one month or (ii) the Interest Rate Type for such Term Loan, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Base Rate Loan. The Administrative Agent shall give notice to each Tranche B Term Lender promptly upon receipt of each such Notice of Borrowing pursuant to this , the contents thereof and such Term Lender's share of any borrowing to be made pursuant thereto.
provided
Section 2.2(a)
 
(b) . Each Lender shall make its Revolving Commitment Percentage or Tranche B Term Loan Commitment Percentage, as the case may be, of the requested Loans available to the Administrative Agent by 1:00 p.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the date specified in the Notice of Borrowing by deposit, in Dollars, of immediately available funds at the address of the Administrative Agent set forth in . The amount of the requested Loans will then be made available to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent as directed by the Borrower, to the extent the amount of such Loans are made available to the Administrative Agent. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Credit Agreement, Swingline Loans shall be funded by the Swingline Lender on the same Business Day as requested by the Borrower and Letters of Credit shall be issued by the Issuing Bank on the third Business Day following a request by the Borrower therefor.
Funding of Loans
Section 2.15
 
No Lender shall be responsible for the failure or delay by any other Lender in its obligation to make Loans hereunder; , , that the failure of any Lender to fulfill its obligations hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder. Unless the Administrative Agent shall have been notified by any Lender prior to the date of any such Loan that such Lender does not intend to make available to the Administrative Agent its portion of the Loans to be made on such date, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such amount available to the Administrative Agent on the date of such Loans, and the Administrative Agent, in reliance upon such assumption, may (in its sole discretion but without any obligation to do so) make available to the Borrower a corresponding amount. If such corresponding amount is not in fact made available to the Administrative Agent by such Lender, the Administrative Agent shall be able to recover such corresponding amount from such Lender. If such Lender does not pay such corresponding amount upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Borrower, and the Borrower shall immediately pay such corresponding amount to the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall also be entitled to recover from such Lender or the Borrower, as the case may be, interest on such corresponding amount in respect of each day from the date such corresponding amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower to the date such corresponding amount is recovered by the Administrative Agent (i) from the Borrower at a rate per annum equal to the applicable rate for such Loan pursuant to the Notice of Borrowing or (ii) from such Lender, at a rate per annum equal to, during the period to but excluding the date two Business Days after demand therefor, the Federal Funds Rate, and, thereafter, the Base Rate plus two percent (2%) per annum.
provided
however
 
(c) . Loans may be comprised of no more than fifteen (15) Eurodollar Rate Loans outstanding at any time. For purposes hereof, Eurodollar Rate Loans with separate or different Interest Periods will be considered as separate Eurodollar Rate Loans even if their Interest Periods expire on the same date.
Maximum Number of Eurodollar Rate Loans
 
(d) . Each Revolving Loan shall be (i) in the case of Eurodollar Rate Loans, in a minimum principal amount of $1,000,000 and integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the amount by which the Total Revolving Committed Amount exceeds the Revolving Obligations) and (ii) in the case of Base Rate Loans$500,000 and integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the amount by which the Total Revolving Committed Amount exceeds the Revolving Obligations). Each Swingline Loan shall be in a minimum principal amount of $500,000 and integral multiples of $100,000 in excess thereof (or, if less, the amount by which the Swingline Committed Amount exceeds the outstanding balance of the Swingline Loans). The Tranche B Term Loan shall be made in a minimum principal amount of $5,000,000 and integral multiples of $1,000,000 in excess thereof.
Minimum Amounts
,
 
Section 2.3 .
Interest
 
(a) Subject to below, the Loans shall bear interest at a per annum rate, payable in arrears on each applicable Interest Payment Date (or at such other times as may be specified herein), as follows:
subsection (c)
 
(i) . During such periods as the Loans shall be comprised of Base Rate Loans, the Adjusted Base Rate; and
Base Rate Loans
 
(ii) . During such periods as the Loans shall be comprised of Eurodollar Rate Loans, the Adjusted Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Rate Loans
 
(b) . Interest in respect of any Loan hereunder shall accrue from and including the date of such Loan to but excluding the date on which such Loan is paid or, if applicable, converted to a Loan of a different Interest Rate Type.
Accrual of Interest
 
(c) . Anything in this Credit Agreement or in any note evidencing any Loan hereunder to the contrary notwithstanding, the interest rate on the Loans or with respect to any drawing under a Letter of Credit shall in no event be in excess of the maximum rate permitted by Applicable Law.
Legal Maximum
 
(d) . Except as expressly provided otherwise herein, all computations of interest and fees shall be made on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over a year of 360 days, except with respect to computation of interest on Base Rate Loans determined by reference to the Prime Rate, which shall be calculated based on a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be.
Computations of Interest and Fees
 
Section 2.4 .
Payments; Evidence of Debt
 
(a) .
Repayment of Loans
 
(i) . The principal amount of all Revolving Loans shall be due and payable in full on the Revolving Commitment Termination Date.
Revolving Loans
 
(ii) . The principal amount of all Swingline Loans shall be due and payable in full on the earlier of (A) the maturity date agreed to by the Swingline Lender (which shall not be less than three (3) days after the funding of such Swingline Loan) or (B) the Revolving Commitment Termination Date.
Swingline Loans
 
(iii) . The principal amount of the Tranche B Term Loan shall be payable as provided in the joinder pursuant to which the Tranche B Term Loan facility is established, if applicable.
Tranche B Term Loan
 
(b) . Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
Evidence of Debt
 
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall maintain the Register in accordance with , including a record of (i) the amount of each outstanding Loan hereunder, the Interest Rate Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
Register
Section 12.3(e)
 
(d) . The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph or of this shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the Obligations recorded therein; , , that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Loans and the other Obligations in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement.
No Effect on Obligations
(b)
(c)
Section 2.4
prima
facie
provided
however
 
(e) . The Revolving Loans shall be evidenced by the Revolving Notes, and the Swingline Loans shall be evidenced by the Swingline Note. The Tranche B Term Loan (if applicable) shall be evidenced by the Term Notes.
Notes
 
(f) . Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Credit Agreement to the contrary, after the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, all amounts collected or received on or in respect of the Obligations (or other amounts owing under the Fundamental Documents in connection therewith) shall be paid over or delivered as follows:
Allocation of Payments After Event of Default
 
FIRST, to the payment of all unreimbursed costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, excluding the allocated cost of internal counsel) of the Administrative Agent which are payable by the Borrower or any of the other Credit Parties pursuant to this Credit Agreement and any fees owed to the Administrative Agent by the Borrower or any of the other Credit Parties pursuant to this Credit Agreement;
 
SECOND, to the payment of all unreimbursed costs and expenses of the Lenders which are payable by the Borrower or any of the other Credit Parties under the Fundamental Documents;
 
THIRD, to the payment of all accrued but unpaid Facility Fees and Letter of Credit Fees to the Revolving Lenders and all other fees owed to the Lenders by the Borrower or any of the other Credit Parties pursuant to this Credit Agreement;
 
FOURTH, to the payment of accrued but unpaid interest on the Loans;
 
FIFTH, to the payment of the principal outstanding balance of the Loans and the cash collateralization of LOC Obligations outstanding;
 
SIXTH, to the payment of the remainder of the Obligations or any other amounts then due and owing under this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document; and
 
EIGHTH, to the payment of the surplus, if any, to the Borrower or to whoever else may be lawfully entitled to receive such surplus under any applicable court order.
 
In carrying out the foregoing, (i) amounts received shall be applied in the numerical order provided until exhausted prior to application to the next succeeding category; (ii) except as otherwise provided, the Lenders shall receive amounts to be applied pursuant to clauses "", "", "" and "" above, ratably , between the Revolving Lenders and the Tranche B Term Lenders, in accordance with the relative proportion of Revolving Obligations outstanding and the Tranche B Term Loan outstanding, respectively, to all Loan Obligations then outstanding and , pro rata among the Revolving Lenders based on their respective Revolving Commitment Percentages, and among the Tranche B Term Lenders based on their respective Tranche B Term Loan Commitment Percentages; and (iii) to the extent that any amounts available for distribution pursuant to clause "" above are attributable to the issued but undrawn amount of outstanding Letters of Credit, such amounts shall be held by the Administrative Agent in the Cash Collateral Account, shall be subject to the Lien of the Administrative Agent thereon and applied (A) first, to reimburse the Issuing Bank for any drawings under such Letters of Credit and (B) then, following the expiration of all Letters of Credit, to all other obligations of the types described in clauses "", "" and "" above in the manner provided in this .
SECOND
THIRD
FOURTH
FIFTH
first
second
FIFTH
THIRD
FOURTH
FIFTH
Section 2.4(f)
 
Section 2.5 .
Facility Fees, Letter of Credit Fees and Other Fees
 
(a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender in accordance with its Revolving Commitment Percentage, a facility fee at a per annum rate equal to 0.25% of the actual daily amount of the Total Revolving Committed Amount (as such amount may be reduced pursuant to below) regardless of usage, or, if the Revolving Commitments have terminated, on the outstanding amount of all Revolving Loans, Swingline Loans and LOC Obligations, (the "" and collectively, for all the Revolving Lenders, the ""). The Facility Fee shall accrue at all times during the Commitment Period (and thereafter so long as any Revolving Loans, Swingline Loans and LOC Obligations remain outstanding), including at any time during which one or more of the conditions in or is not met, and shall be due and payable quarterly in arrears on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter (or a portion thereof), commencing with the first such date to occur after the Closing Date, and on the Revolving Commitment Termination Date (and, if applicable, thereafter on demand).
Section 2.6
Facility Fee
Facility Fees
Sections 4.2(b)
(c)
 
(b) .
Letter of Credit Fees
 
(i) . In consideration of the issuance of standby Letters of Credit, the Borrower promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender a fee (the "") on such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment Percentage of the average daily maximum amount available to be drawn under each such standby Letter of Credit computed at a per annum rate from the date of issuance to the date of expiration or earlier cancellation equal to the Applicable Percentage for Revolving Loans that are Eurodollar Rate Loans. The Standby Letter of Credit Fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter (or a portion thereof) and on the Revolving Commitment Termination Date.
Standby Letter of Credit Issuance Fee
Standby Letter of Credit Fee
 
(ii) . In consideration of the issuance of trade Letters of Credit, the Borrower promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Revolving Lender a fee (the "") on such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment Percentage of the average daily maximum amount available to be drawn under each such trade Letter of Credit computed at a per annum rate from the date of issuance to the date of
Trade Letter of Credit Issuance Fee
Trade Letter of Credit Fee
 
expiration or earlier cancellation equal to the Applicable Percentage for Revolving Loans that are Eurodollar Rate Loans. The Trade Letter of Credit Fee shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter (or a portion thereof) and on the Revolving Commitment Termination Date.
 
(iii) . In addition to the Standby Letter of Credit Fee and the Trade Letter of Credit Fee, the Borrower promises to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Issuing Bank without sharing by the other Lenders (A) a letter of credit fronting fee (the "") of one-eighth of one percent (0.125%) on the average daily maximum amount available to be drawn under each Letter of Credit computed at a per annum rate for each day from the date of issuance to the date of expiration and (B) the customary charges from time to time of the Issuing Bank with respect to the issuance, amendment, transfer, administration, cancellation and conversion of, and drawings under, such Letters of Credit. The Issuing Bank Fee hereunder shall be payable quarterly in arrears on the first Business Day after the end of each March, June, September and December for the immediately preceding fiscal quarter (or portion thereof) and on the Revolving Commitment Termination Date.
Issuing Bank Fees
Issuing Bank Fee
 
(c) In addition, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent any and all other fees not expressly covered hereunder on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the Fee Letter.
 
Section 2.6 .
Termination and/or Reduction of the Total Revolving Committed Amount
 
(a) Upon at least three (3) Business Days' prior written, facsimile or telephonic notice (provided that such telephonic notice is immediately followed by written confirmation) to the Administrative Agent, the Borrower may at any time in whole permanently terminate, or from time to time in part permanently reduce, the Total Revolving Committed Amount. In the case of a partial reduction, each such reduction of the Total Revolving Committed Amount shall be in a minimum aggregate principal amount of $500,000 or an integral multiple thereof; , , that the Total Revolving Committed Amount may not be reduced to an amount less than the aggregate principal amount of all Revolving Obligations then outstanding.
provided
however
 
(b) On any date that the Total Revolving Committed Amount is reduced pursuant to above, each of the Swingline Committed Amount and the LOC Committed Amount shall also be reduced proportionately, such that the LOC Committed Amount shall at all times remain equal to ten percent (10%) of the Total Revolving Committed Amount, and the Swingline Committed Amount shall at all times remain equal to the lesser of (i) twenty percent (20%) of the Total Revolving Committed Amount, or (ii) $50,000,000.
subsection (a)
 
(c) Any partial reduction of the Total Revolving Committed Amount hereunder shall be made among the Revolving Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Revolving Commitment Percentages.
 
(d) Simultaneously with each termination or reduction of the Total Revolving Committed Amount, the Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Revolving Lenders, all accrued and unpaid Facility Fees on the amount of the Total Revolving Committed Amount so terminated or reduced through the date of such termination or reduction.
 
Section 2.7 .
Prepayments
 
(a) If at any time (i) the aggregate principal amount of Revolving Obligations outstanding shall exceed the Total Revolving Committed Amount, (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Loan
 
Obligations outstanding shall exceed the Borrowing Base, (iii) the aggregate principal amount of LOC Obligations outstanding shall exceed the LOC Committed Amount or (iv) the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding shall exceed the Swingline Committed Amount, the Borrower will immediately prepay Revolving Obligations, first, until paid in full, and then (if applicable) the Tranche B Term Loan, if necessary, to the extent necessary to eliminate any such excess; that any such prepayment shall be subject to the terms of .
provided
Section 2.10
 
(b) Subject to the terms of hereof, the Borrower shall have the right at its option at any time and from time to time to prepay any of the Loans hereunder; (i) any such prepayment of a Base Rate Loan, in whole or in part, shall be (A) received not later than 11:00 a.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the Business Day that is the date of such prepayment, (B) in the principal amount of $500,000 or such greater amount which is an integral multiple of $250,000 if prepaid in part, and (C) accompanied by a Notice of Prepayment substantially in the form of , and (ii) any such prepayment of a Eurodollar Rate Loan, in whole or in part, shall be (A) received not later than 11:00 a.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the Business Day that is the date of such prepayment, (B) in the principal amount of $1,000,000 or such greater amount which is an integral multiple of $100,000 if prepaid in part, and (C) accompanied by a Notice of Prepayment substantially in the form of . Each notice of prepayment shall specify the prepayment date, each Loan to be prepaid and the principal amount thereof, shall be irrevocable and shall commit the Borrower to prepay each such Loan in the amount and on the date stated therein.
Section 2.10
provided
Exhibit B-3
Exhibit B-3
 
(c) Any prepayments pursuant to this not otherwise specifically provided for in this , shall be applied as provided in hereof.
Section 2.7
Section 2.7
Section 2.4(f)
 
(d) All prepayments of Loans under this shall, as regards Interest Rate Type, be applied first to Base Rate Loans, and subject to hereof, then to Eurodollar Rate Loans in the order of the scheduled expiry of Interest Periods with respect thereto (i.e., those Eurodollar Rate Loans with Interest Periods which end sooner would be paid before those with Interest Periods which end later).
Section 2.7
Section 2.7(f)
 
(e) All prepayments under this shall be accompanied by accrued but unpaid interest on the principal amount being prepaid to (but not including) the date of prepayment.
Section 2.7
 
(f) If on any day on which Loans would otherwise be required to be prepaid pursuant to this , but for the operation of this (each a ""), the amount of such required prepayment exceeds the then outstanding aggregate principal amount of Base Rate Loans which are of the type required to be prepaid (i.e., Revolving Loans or Term Loan), and no Default or Event of Default exists or is continuing, then on such Prepayment Date, (i) the Borrower shall deposit Dollars into the Cash Collateral Account in an amount equal to such excess, and only the outstanding Base Rate Loans which are of the type required to be prepaid shall be required to be prepaid on such Prepayment Date and (ii) on the last day of each Interest Period after such Prepayment Date in effect with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan which is of the type required to be prepaid, the Administrative Agent is irrevocably authorized and directed to apply funds from the Cash Collateral Account (and liquidate investments held in the Cash Collateral Account, as necessary) to prepay such Eurodollar Rate Loans for which the Interest Period is then ending to the extent funds are available in the Cash Collateral Account.
Section 2.7
Section 2.7(f)
Prepayment Date
 
Section 2.8 .
Default Interest; Alternate Rate of Interest
 
(a) In the event that, and for so long as, any Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Borrower shall on demand from time to time pay interest, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, on all Loans and overdue amounts outstanding up to (but not including) the date of actual payment of such Loan or overdue amount (after as well as before judgment) (i) for the remainder of
 
the then current Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Loan, at 3% in excess of the rate then in effect for each such Eurodollar Rate Loan (it being understood by the parties hereto that no Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued into a subsequent Interest Period and no Base Rate Loan may be converted to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, at any time when an Event of Default shall have occurred and then be continuing unless the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders otherwise consent), (ii) for all periods subsequent to the then current Interest Period for each Eurodollar Rate Loan and for all Base Rate Loans of a certain type (i.e., Revolving Loan or Term Loan), at 3% in excess of the rate then in effect for Base Rate Loans of the same type and (iii) for all other overdue amounts hereunder, at 3% in excess of the rate then in effect for Base Rate Loans that are Revolving Loans; , , that if an Event of Default is waived by the applicable Lenders in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement, then the provisions of this shall also be deemed waived from and after the effective date of the applicable waiver.
provided
however
Section 2.8(a)
 
(b) In the event, and on each occasion, that on or before the day on which the Eurodollar Rate for a Eurodollar Rate Loan is to be determined as set forth herein, (i) the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from any Lender of such Lender's determination (which determination, absent manifest error, shall be conclusive) that Dollar deposits in an amount equal to the principal amount of such Lender's Eurodollar Rate Loan are not generally available in the London interbank market or that the rate at which such Dollar deposits are being offered will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining the principal amount of such Lender's Eurodollar Rate Loan during the applicable Interest Period or (ii) the Administrative Agent shall have determined that reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the applicable Eurodollar Rate, the Administrative Agent shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, give written or facsimile notice of such determination by such Lender or the Administrative Agent to the Borrower and the Lenders and any request by the Borrower for a Eurodollar Rate Loan pursuant to or conversion to or continuation as a Eurodollar Rate Loan pursuant to , made after receipt of such notice and until the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, shall be deemed to be a request for a Base Rate Loan; , , that in the circumstances described in clause above, such deemed request shall only apply to the affected Lender's portion thereof.
Section 2.2
Section 2.9
provided
however
(i)
 
Section 2.9 .
Continuation and Conversion of Loans
 
The Borrower shall have the right, at any time, (i) to convert any Eurodollar Rate Loan or portion thereof to a Base Rate Loan, (ii) to continue any Eurodollar Rate Loan for a successive Interest Period, or (iii) to convert any Base Rate Loan or portion thereof to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, subject to the following:
 
(a) at least three (3) Business Days prior to any conversion or continuation hereunder, the Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent written notice with respect thereto in the form of a Notice of Conversion/Continuation (or by telephonic notice promptly confirmed in writing); such notice shall be irrevocable and to be effective, must be received by the Administrative Agent on the day required not later than 11:00 a.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time);
 
(b) unless the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders otherwise consent, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of any conversion to a Eurodollar Rate Loan or continuation of a Eurodollar Rate Loan into a subsequent Interest Period;
 
(c) the aggregate principal amount of Loans continued as, or converted to, Eurodollar Rate Loans as part of the same continuation or conversion, shall be in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 or in such greater amount which is an integral multiple of $100,000;
 
(d) if fewer than all Loans of a particular type at the time outstanding shall be continued or converted, such continuation or conversion shall be made pro rata among the applicable Lenders in accordance with the respective principal amount of such Loans held by the applicable Lenders immediately prior to such continuation or conversion;
 
(e) no Base Rate Loan (or portion thereof) may be converted to a Eurodollar Rate Loan and no Eurodollar Rate Loan may be continued as a Eurodollar Rate Loan if, after such conversion or continuation, and after giving effect to any concurrent prepayment of Loans, an aggregate of more than fifteen (15) separate Eurodollar Rate Loans would be outstanding hereunder with respect to a Lender (for purposes of determining the number of such Loans outstanding, Loans with different Interest Periods shall be counted as different Eurodollar Rate Loans even if made on the same date);
 
(f) the Interest Period with respect to a new Eurodollar Rate Loan effected by a continuation or conversion shall commence on the date of such continuation or conversion;
 
(g) if a Eurodollar Rate Loan is converted to a Base Rate Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period with respect thereto, the amounts required by shall be paid upon such conversion; and
Section 2.10
 
(h) each request for a continuation as, or conversion to, a Eurodollar Rate Loan which fails to state an applicable Interest Period shall be deemed to be a request for an Interest Period of one month.
 
Subject to the foregoing, in the event that the Borrower shall not give notice to continue or convert any Eurodollar Rate Loan as provided above, such Loan (unless repaid) shall automatically be converted to a Base Rate Loan at the expiration of the then current Interest Period. The Administrative Agent shall, after it receives notice from the Borrower, promptly give the Lenders notice of any continuation or conversion.
 
Section 2.10 .
Reimbursement of Lenders
 
The Borrower shall reimburse each Lender in accordance with this for any loss or expense incurred or to be incurred by such Lender in the re-employment of the funds released (i) by any prepayment or conversion (for any reason whatsoever) of a Eurodollar Rate Loan if such Loan is prepaid or converted prior to the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan or (ii) in the event that after the Borrower delivers a Notice of Borrowing under or a Notice of Continuation/Conversion under in respect of a Eurodollar Rate Loan, such Loan is not made, continued or converted on the first day of the Interest Period specified in the applicable notice for any reason other than (A) a suspension or limitation under of the right of the Borrower to select a Eurodollar Rate Loan or (B) a breach by such Lender of its obligation to fund such Borrowing when it was otherwise required to do so hereunder. Such losses and expenses shall include (without limitation) any loss incurred in obtaining, liquidating or employing deposits from third parties, but shall exclude any loss of margin for the period after any such payment or conversion or failure to borrow, convert or repay. Each Lender shall deliver to the Administrative Agent as soon as reasonably practicable but in no event more than thirty (30) Business Days after (x) in the case of a prepayment or conversion prior to the last day of the Interest Period for a Eurodollar Rate Loan, the date of such prepayment or conversion of such Loan or (y) in the case of a failure to borrow, continue or convert, the last day of the Interest Period for such Loan which would have commenced on the date of such failure to borrow, continue or convert, a certificate setting forth the amount of such loss and expenses (and in reasonable detail the manner of computation thereof) as determined by such Lender, which certificate shall be conclusive absent manifest error. Promptly after the end of such period of thirty (30) Business Days, the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower of all certificates received by it during such period and shall deliver to the Borrower copies of all certificates received by the Administrative Agent from the Lenders. The Borrower shall pay each Lender timely
Section 2.10
Section 2.2
Section 2.9
Section 2.8(b)
 
delivering a certificate under this the amount shown on the applicable certificate delivered by such Lender on the next Interest Payment Date which is at least five (5) Business Days following the Borrower's receipt of such certificate.
Section 2.10
 
Section 2.11 .
Change in Circumstances
 
(a) In the event that after the Initial Date, any change in Applicable Law or in the interpretation or administration thereof (including, without limitation, any request, guideline or policy not having the force of law) by any Governmental Authority charged with the administration or interpretation thereof or, with respect to clauses , or below, any changes in conditions, shall occur which shall:
(ii)
(iii)
(iv)
 
(i) subject any Lender to, or increase the net amount of, any tax, levy, impost, duty, charge, fee, deduction or withholding with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Loan (other than withholding tax imposed by the United States of America or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein or any other tax, levy, impost, duty, charge, fee, deduction or withholding (x) that is measured with respect to the overall net income of such Lender or of a Lending Office of such Lender, and that is imposed by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction in which such Lender or Lending Office is incorporated, in which such Lending Office is located, managed or controlled or in which such Lender has its principal office or a presence not otherwise connected with, or required by, this transaction (or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein), or (y) that is imposed solely by reason of any Lender failing to make a declaration of, or otherwise to establish, nonresidence, or to make any other claim for exemption, or otherwise to comply with any certification, identification, information, documentation or reporting requirements prescribed under the laws of the relevant jurisdiction, in those cases where a Lender may properly make such declaration or claim or so establish nonresidence or otherwise comply); or
 
(ii) change the basis of taxation of any payment to any Lender of the principal of or interest on any Eurodollar Rate Loan or other fees and amounts payable to any Lender hereunder, or any combination of the foregoing, other than withholding tax imposed by the United States of America or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein or any other tax, levy, impost, duty, charge, fee, deduction or withholding that is measured with respect to the overall net income of such Lender or of a Lending Office of such Lender, and that is imposed by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction in which such Lender or Lending Office is incorporated, in which such Lending Office is located, managed or controlled or in which such Lender has its principal office or a presence not otherwise connected with, or required by, this transaction (or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof or therein); or
 
(iii) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, deposit or similar requirement against any assets held by, deposits with or for the account of, or loans or commitments by, an office of such Lender with respect to any Eurodollar Rate Loan; or
 
(iv) impose upon such Lender or the London Interbank Market any other condition with respect to the Eurodollar Rate Loans or this Credit Agreement;
 
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the actual cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any Eurodollar Rate Loan hereunder or to reduce the amount of any payment (whether of principal, interest or otherwise) received or receivable by such Lender in connection with any Eurodollar Rate Loan hereunder, or to require such Lender to make any payment in connection with any Eurodollar Rate Loan hereunder, in each case by or in an amount which such Lender in its sole judgment shall deem
 
material, then and in each case, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender, in accordance with, and as provided in, paragraph below, such amounts as shall be necessary to compensate such Lender for such cost, reduction or payment.
(c)
 
(b) If at any time and from time to time after the Initial Date, any Lender shall have determined that the applicability of any law, rule, regulation or guideline regarding capital adequacy which is adopted after the Initial Date, or any change in any law, rule, regulation or guideline regarding capital adequacy or in the interpretation or administration of any of the foregoing by any Governmental Authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or the compliance by any Lender (or any Lending Office of such Lender) or any Lender's holding company with any request or directive issued after the Initial Date regarding capital adequacy (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency, has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's capital or on the capital of such Lender's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Credit Agreement or the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued pursuant hereto to a level below that which such Lender or such Lender's holding company could have achieved but for such applicability, adoption, change or compliance (taking into consideration such Lender's policies and the policies of such Lender's holding company with respect to capital adequacy) by an amount deemed by such Lender in its sole judgment to be material, then from time to time the Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender, in accordance with, and as provided in, paragraph below, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or such Lender's holding company for any such reduction suffered to the extent attributable to this Credit Agreement or the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued pursuant hereto; that the Borrower shall not be liable to any Lender in respect of any such reduction with respect to any period of time more than three (3) months before the Borrower receives from such Lender the certificates required by the first sentence of hereof.
(c)
provided
Section 2.11(c)
 
(c) Each Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and to the Administrative Agent from time to time one or more certificates setting forth the amounts due to such Lender under paragraph or above, the changes as a result of which such amounts are due and the manner of computing such amounts. Each such certificate shall be conclusive in the absence of manifest error. The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each such Lender the amounts shown as due on any such certificate on the next Interest Payment Date which is at least five (5) Business Days following the Borrower's receipt of the same. No failure on the part of any Lender to demand compensation under paragraph or above on any one occasion shall constitute a waiver of its right to demand such compensation on any other occasion, except to the extent set forth in the proviso to the last sentence of . The protection of this shall be available to each Lender regardless of any possible contention of the invalidity or inapplicability of any law, regulation or other condition which shall give rise to any demand by such Lender for compensation hereunder.
(a)
(b)
(a)
(b)
Section 2.11(b)
Section 2.11
 
(d) Each Lender agrees that after it becomes aware of the occurrence of an event or the existence of a condition that (i) would cause it to incur any increased cost hereunder or render it unable to perform its agreements hereunder for the reasons specifically set forth in this , or or (ii) would require the Borrower to pay an increased amount under this , or , it will notify the Borrower in writing of such event or condition and, will make, fund or maintain the affected Loans of such Lender or, if applicable, participate in Letters of Credit as required by , through another Lending Office of such Lender if, as a result thereof, the additional monies which would otherwise be required to be paid or the amounts receivable by such Lender hereunder in respect of such Loans, Letters of Credit or participation therein would be reduced, or such inability to perform would cease to exist, or the increased costs which would otherwise be required to be paid in respect of such Loans, Letters of Credit or participations therein pursuant to this , or would be reduced or the taxes or other amounts otherwise
Section 2.11
Section 2.12
Section 2.13(e)
Section 2.11
Section 2.12
Section 2.13(e)
Section 2.16
Section 2.11
Section 2.12
Section 2.16
 
payable under this , or would be reduced, and if, as determined by such Lender, in its reasonable discretion, the making, funding or maintaining of such Loans, Letters of Credit or participations therein through such other Lending Office would not otherwise adversely affect such Loans, Letters of Credit or participations therein or such Lender.
Section 2.11
Section 2.12
Section 2.16
 
(e) If the Borrower shall receive notice from any Lender that Eurodollar Rate Loans are no longer available from such Lender pursuant to or , that amounts are due to such Lender pursuant to paragraph hereof, that any of the events designated in paragraph hereof have occurred, or that an event has occurred that would cause the Borrower to pay any amount pursuant to clause of , the Borrower may (but subject in any such case to the payments required by this Credit Agreement, including, without limitation hereof), upon at least five (5) Business Days' prior written or facsimile notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, identify to the Administrative Agent a lending institution (a "") reasonably acceptable to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent which will purchase (for an amount, in immediately available funds, equal to the principal amount of outstanding Loans payable to such Lender, plus all accrued but unpaid interest and fees payable to such Lender) the Revolving Commitment, Tranche B Term Loan Commitment (if applicable), the amount of outstanding Loans and Participation Interests (if and as applicable) from the Lender providing such notice, and such Lender shall thereupon assign in whole its Revolving Commitment and/or Tranche B Term Loan Commitment (if and as applicable), its participations in Letters of Credit (if applicable) and any Loans owing to such Lender, and any Notes held by such Lender to such Purchasing Lender pursuant to hereof.
Section 2.8
Section 2.12
(c)
(d)
(e)
Section 2.13
Section 2.10
Purchasing Lender
Section 12.3
 
Section 2.12 .
Change in Legality
 
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained elsewhere in this Credit Agreement, if any change after the date hereof in Applicable Law, guideline or order, or in the administration or interpretation thereof by any Governmental Authority charged with the administration or interpretation thereof, shall make it unlawful for any Lender to make or maintain any Eurodollar Rate Loan or to give effect to its obligations as contemplated hereby with respect to a Eurodollar Rate Loan, then, by written notice to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, such Lender may (i) declare that Eurodollar Rate Loans will not thereafter be made by such Lender hereunder and/or (ii) require that, subject to , all outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loans made by it be converted to Base Rate Loans, whereupon all of such Eurodollar Rate Loans shall automatically be converted to Base Rate Loans, as of the effective date of such notice as provided in paragraph below. Such Lender's pro rata portion of any subsequent Eurodollar Rate Loan shall, instead, be a Base Rate Loan unless such declaration is subsequently withdrawn.
Section 2.10
(b)
 
(b) A notice to the Borrower by any Lender pursuant to paragraph above shall be effective for purposes of clause thereof, if lawful, on the last day of the current Interest Period for each outstanding Eurodollar Rate Loan; and in all other cases, on the date of receipt of such notice by the Borrower (or sooner if required by Applicable Law).
(a)
(ii)
 
Section 2.13 .
United States Withholding
 
(a) Prior to the Initial Date for such Lender, and from time to time thereafter if requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent or required because, as a result of a change in law or a change in circumstances or otherwise, a previously delivered form or statement becomes incomplete or incorrect in any material respect, each Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States shall provide, if applicable, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower with complete, accurate and duly executed forms or other statements prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service of the United States certifying such Lender's exemption from, or entitlement to a reduced rate of, United States withholding
 
taxes (including backup withholding taxes) with respect to all payments to be made to such Lender hereunder and under any other Fundamental Document.
 
(b) The Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold any and all present or future taxes or withholdings, and all liabilities with respect thereto, from payments to a Lender hereunder or under any other Fundamental Document, if and to the extent that the Borrower or the Administrative Agent in good faith determines that such deduction or withholding is required by the law of the United States, including, without limitation, any applicable treaty of the United States. In the event the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall so determine that deduction or withholding of taxes is required, it shall advise the affected Lender as to the basis of such determination prior to actually deducting and withholding such taxes. In the event the Borrower or the Administrative Agent shall so deduct or withhold taxes from amounts payable hereunder, it (i) shall pay to, or deposit with, the appropriate taxing authority in a timely manner the full amount of taxes it has deducted or withheld; (ii) shall provide to each Lender from whom taxes were deducted or withheld, evidence of payment of such taxes to, or the deposit thereof with, the appropriate taxing authority and a statement setting forth the amount of taxes deducted or withheld, the applicable rate, and any other information or documentation reasonably requested by such Lender; and (iii) shall forward to each such Lender any official tax receipts or other documentation with respect to the payment or deposit of the deducted or withheld taxes as may be issued from time to time by the appropriate taxing authority. Unless the Borrower and the Administrative Agent have received forms or other documents satisfactory to them indicating that payments hereunder or under any note evidencing the Loans hereunder are not subject to United States withholding tax or are subject to such tax at a rate reduced by an applicable tax treaty, the Borrower or the Administrative Agent may withhold taxes from such payments at the applicable statutory rate in the case of payments to or for any Lender organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States.
 
(c) Each Lender agrees (i) that as between it and the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, such Lender shall be the Person to deduct and withhold taxes, and to the extent required by law, it shall deduct and withhold taxes on amounts that such Lender may remit to any other Person(s) by reason of any undisclosed transfer or assignment of an interest in this Credit Agreement to such other Person(s) pursuant to ; and (ii) to indemnify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and any officers, directors, partners, limited liability company members, agents, employees or representatives of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent against, and to hold them harmless from, any tax, interest, additions to tax, penalties, reasonable counsel and accountants' fees, disbursements or payments arising from the assertion by any appropriate taxing authority of any claim against them relating to a failure to withhold taxes as required by law with respect to amounts described in clause of this paragraph or arising from the reliance by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent on any form or other document furnished by such Lender and purporting to establish a basis for not withholding, or for withholding at a reduced rate, taxes with respect to payments hereunder or under any other Fundamental Document.
Section 12.3
(i)
(c)
 
(d) Each assignee of a Lender's interest in this Credit Agreement in conformity with shall be bound by this and be subject to all obligations of a Lender hereunder, including without limitation to provide all of the forms and statements specified herein and to give all indemnities, representations and warranties required to be given under this .
Section 12.3
Section 2.13
Section 2.13
 
(e) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any withholding taxes or additional withholding taxes shall become payable solely as a result of any change in any statute, treaty, ruling, determination or regulation occurring after the Initial Date in respect of any sum payable hereunder or under any other Fundamental Document to any Lender (i) the sum payable by the Borrower shall be increased as may be necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this ) such Lender (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such withholding deductions been made,
Section 2.13
 
(ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions, (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant taxation authority or other authority in accordance with Applicable Law and (iv) the Borrower shall forward to such Lender (as the case may be) the official tax receipts or other documentation pursuant to and as set forth in . In addition, the Borrower shall indemnify each Lender for any additional withholding taxes paid by such Lender or any liability (including penalties and interest) arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such additional withholding taxes were correctly or legally asserted.
Section 2.13(b)
 
(f) In the event that a Lender or the Administrative Agent receives a refund of or credit for taxes withheld or paid pursuant to this , which credit or refund is with respect to taxes withheld or paid in connection with sums payable hereunder or under any other Fundamental Document and indemnified by the Borrower pursuant to hereof, such Lender or such Agent (as applicable) shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the Borrower and shall remit to the Borrower the amount of such refund or credit allocable to payments made hereunder or under any other Fundamental Document.
Section 2.13
Section 2.13(e)
 
(g) Each Lender agrees that after it becomes aware of the occurrence of an event that would cause the Borrower to pay any amount pursuant to clause of this , it will notify the Borrower of such event and shall make, fund or maintain the affected Loans and participations in Letters of Credit of such Lender through another Lending Office of such Lender if (i) the amounts required to be paid by the Borrower pursuant to clause of this would be reduced or eliminated, (ii) the making, funding or maintaining of such Loans or participations in Letters of Credit would not be inconsistent with such Lender's internal policies and (iii) the making, funding or maintaining of such Loans, or participations in Letters of Credit through such other Lending Office would not, in the reasonable discretion of such Lender, otherwise adversely affect such Loans or participations in Letters of Credit or such Lender.
(e)
Section 2.13
(e)
Section 2.13
 
(h) For any period with respect to which a Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with the appropriate form pursuant to (unless such failure is due to a change in treaty, law or regulation occurring subsequent to the date on which a form originally was required to be provided), such Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under ; , , that should a Lender, which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax, become subject to taxes because of its failure to deliver a form required hereunder, the Borrower shall take such steps as such Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Lender to recover such taxes.
Section 2.13(a)
Section 2.13(e)
provided
however
 
Section 2.14 .
Interest Adjustments
 
If the provisions of this Credit Agreement or any note evidencing any of the Loans hereunder would at any time require payment by the Borrower to a Lender of any amount of interest in excess of the maximum amount then permitted by the law applicable to any Loan, the applicable interest payments to such Lender in connection with such Loan shall be reduced to the extent and in such a manner as is necessary in order that such Lender shall not receive interest in excess of such maximum amount. If, as a result of the foregoing, a Lender shall receive interest payments hereunder with respect to a Loan or under any note evidencing such Loan in an amount less than the amount otherwise provided hereunder, such deficit (hereinafter called the "") will, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, cumulate and will be carried forward (without interest) until the Loan Obligations are paid in full and the Commitments hereunder have expired or been terminated (except to the extent paid pursuant to the immediately succeeding sentence). Interest otherwise payable to a Lender hereunder with respect to such Loan or under any note evidencing such Loan for any subsequent period shall be increased by the maximum amount of the Interest Deficit that may be so added without causing such Lender to receive interest in excess of the maximum amount then permitted by Applicable Law.
Interest Deficit
 
The amount of any Interest Deficit relating to any Loan and any note evidencing such Loan shall be treated as a prepayment penalty and shall, to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law, be paid in full at the time of any optional prepayment by the Borrower to the Lenders of all the Loans of the applicable type at that time outstanding pursuant to hereof. The amount of any Interest Deficit relating to a Loan and any note at the time of any complete payment of the Loans of the applicable type at that time outstanding (other than an optional prepayment thereof pursuant to hereof) shall be canceled and not paid.
Section 2.7(b)
Section 2.7(b)
 
Section 2.15 .
Manner of Payments
 
All payments by the Borrower hereunder and under any notes evidencing the Loans hereunder shall be made without offset, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, setoff or other deduction, in Dollars, in Federal Reserve or other immediately available funds, at the office of Bank of America, N.A., 101 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, NC 28255, NC1-001-1504, Attention: Credit Services (wiring information: ABA026009593; Acct. No. 1366212250600, Account Name: Credit Services; Ref: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership), no later than 3:00 p.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the date on which such payment shall be due. Any payment received at such office after such time shall be deemed received on the following Business Day. After the expiration of any applicable cure period hereunder, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) debit the amount of any such payment that is not made by such time from any ordinary deposit account of the Borrower maintained with the Administrative Agent (with notice to the Borrower). The Borrower shall, at the time it makes any payment under this Credit Agreement, specify to the Administrative Agent the Loans, LOC Obligations, fees, interest or other amounts payable by the Borrower hereunder to which such payment is to be applied (and in the event that it fails so to specify, or if such application would be inconsistent with the terms hereof, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to the Lenders in such manner as the Administrative Agent may determine to be appropriate in respect of obligations owing by the Borrower hereunder, subject to the terms hereof). The Administrative Agent will distribute such payments to the Lenders entitled thereto if any such payment is received prior to 12:00 Noon (Charlotte, North Carolina time or London, England time, as appropriate) on a Business Day, in like funds as received, prior to the end of such Business Day and otherwise such Administrative Agent will distribute such payment to the Lenders entitled thereto on the next succeeding Business Day. Whenever any payment hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the due date thereof shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day (subject to accrual of interest and fees for the period of such extension).
 
Section 2.16 .
Additional Provisions Relating to Letters of Credit
 
(a) . The Issuing Bank will provide to the Administrative Agent for dissemination to the Revolving Lenders at least quarterly, and more frequently upon request, a detailed summary report on all Letters of Credit outstanding and the activity thereon, including, among other things, the Credit Party for whose account the Letter of Credit is issued, the beneficiary, the face amount, the expiry date thereof and any draws made thereon. The Issuing Bank will provide copies of the Letters of Credit to the Administrative Agent and the Revolving Lenders promptly upon request.
Reports
 
(b) . Each Revolving Lender, with respect to the Existing Letter of Credit, hereby purchases a Participation Interest in the Existing Letter of Credit, and with respect to each Letter of Credit issued on or after the Closing Date, upon issuance of such Letter of Credit, each Revolving Lender shall be deemed to have purchased without recourse a risk participation from the Issuing Bank in such Letter of Credit and the obligations arising thereunder, in each case in an amount equal to its Revolving Commitment Percentage of the obligations under such Letter of Credit and such Revolving Lender shall absolutely, unconditionally and irrevocably assume, as primary obligor and not as surety, and be obligated to pay to the
Participation
 
Issuing Bank therefor and discharge when due, its Revolving Commitment Percentage of the obligations arising under such Letter of Credit. Without limiting the scope and nature of each Revolving Lender's Participation Interest in any Letter of Credit, to the extent that the Issuing Bank has not been reimbursed as required hereunder or under any such Letter of Credit, each Revolving Lender shall pay to the Issuing Bank through the Administrative Agent its Revolving Commitment Percentage of such unreimbursed drawing in same day funds on the day of notification by the Issuing Bank of such unreimbursed drawing pursuant to the provisions of and below. The obligation of each Revolving Lender to so reimburse the Issuing Bank shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by the occurrence of a Default, an Event of Default or any other occurrence, event or condition. Any such reimbursement shall not relieve or otherwise impair the obligation of the Borrower to reimburse the Issuing Bank through the Administrative Agent under any Letter of Credit, together with interest as hereinafter provided.
subsections (c)
(d)
 
(c) . In the event of any drawing under any Letter of Credit, the Issuing Bank will promptly notify the Borrower and the Administrative Agent. Unless the Borrower shall immediately notify the Issuing Bank that the Borrower intends to otherwise reimburse the Issuing Bank for such drawing, the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested that the Revolving Lenders make a Revolving Loan in the amount of such drawing on such Letter of Credit as provided in below, the proceeds of which Revolving Loan will be used to satisfy the related reimbursement obligations. The Borrower promises to reimburse the Issuing Bank through the Administrative Agent on the day of drawing under any Letter of Credit (either with the proceeds of a Revolving Loan obtained hereunder or otherwise) in same day funds. If the Borrower shall fail to reimburse the Issuing Bank as provided hereinabove, the unreimbursed amount of such drawing shall bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the Adjusted Base Rate plus three percent (3%). The Borrower's reimbursement obligations hereunder shall be absolute and unconditional under all circumstances (absent gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Issuing Bank), irrespective of any rights of setoff, counterclaim, recoupment or defense to payment the Borrower may claim or have against the Issuing Bank, the Administrative Agent, any Lender, the beneficiary of the Letter of Credit drawn upon or any other Person, including, without limitation, any defense based on any failure of the Borrower or any other Credit Party to receive consideration or the legality, validity, regularity or unenforceability of the Letter of Credit. The Administrative Agent will promptly notify the Revolving Lenders of the amount of any unreimbursed drawing and each Revolving Lender shall promptly pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Issuing Bank in Dollars and in immediately available funds, the amount of such Revolving Lender's Revolving Commitment Percentage of such unreimbursed drawing. Such payment shall be made on the day such notice is received by such Revolving Lender from the Administrative Agent if such notice is received at or before 2:00 p.m. (Charlotte, North Carolina time) otherwise such payment shall be made at or before 12:00 Noon (Charlotte, North Carolina time) on the Business Day next succeeding the day such notice is received. If such Revolving Lender does not pay such amount to the Administrative Agent in full upon such request, such Revolving Lender shall, on demand, pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Issuing Bank interest on the unpaid amount during the period from the date of such drawing until such Revolving Lender pays such amount to the Issuing Bank in full at a rate per annum equal to, if paid within two Business Days of the date that such Revolving Lender is required to make payments of such amount pursuant to the preceding sentence, the Federal Funds Rate and thereafter at a rate equal to the Base Rate. Each Revolving Lender's obligation to make such payment to the Issuing Bank, and the right of the Issuing Bank to receive the same, shall be absolute and unconditional, shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever and without regard to the termination of this Credit Agreement or the Commitments hereunder, the existence of a Default or Event of Default or the acceleration of the obligations of the Borrower hereunder and shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever. Simultaneously with the making of each such payment by a Revolving Lender to the Issuing Bank, such Revolving Lender shall, automatically and without any further action on the part of the Issuing Bank or such Revolving Lender, acquire a Participation Interest in the related unreimbursed drawing and in the interest thereon and in the related LOC Obligations in an amount equal to such payment (excluding the portion of such payment
Reimbursement
subsection (d)
 
constituting interest owing to the Issuing Bank), and shall have a claim against the Borrower with respect thereto.
 
(d) . On any day on which the Borrower shall have requested, or been deemed to have requested, a Revolving Loan to reimburse a drawing under a Letter of Credit, the Administrative Agent shall give notice to the Revolving Lenders that a Revolving Loan has been requested or deemed requested by the Borrower in connection with such drawing, and each Revolving Lender shall make its Revolving Commitment Percentage (determined before giving effect to any termination of the Commitments pursuant to ) of such Revolving Loan as a Base Rate Loan (or Eurodollar Rate Loan, to the extent the Borrower has complied with the procedures of with respect thereto) to the Administrative Agent in the manner and by such time and date as specified in (notwithstanding any termination of the Revolving Commitments pursuant to ) and the proceeds thereof shall be paid directly to the Issuing Bank for application to the applicable LOC Obligations. Each Revolving Lender hereby irrevocably agrees to make its Revolving Commitment Percentage of each such Revolving Loan promptly upon any such request or deemed request in the amount, in the manner and on the date specified in the preceding sentence (i) that the amount of such borrowing may not comply with the minimum amount for advances of Revolving Loans otherwise required hereunder, (ii) whether any conditions specified in are then satisfied, (iii) whether a Default or an Event of Default then exists, (iv) failure for any such request or deemed request for a Revolving Loan to be made by the time otherwise required hereunder, (v) whether the date of such borrowing is a date on which Revolving Loans are otherwise permitted to be made hereunder or (vi) any termination of the Revolving Commitments relating thereto immediately prior to or contemporaneously with such borrowing. In the event that any Revolving Loan cannot for any reason be made on the date otherwise required above (including, without limitation, as a result of the commencement of a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code with respect to any Credit Party), then each Revolving Lender hereby agrees that it shall forthwith purchase (as of the date such borrowing would otherwise have occurred, but adjusted for any payments received from the Borrower on or after such date and prior to such purchase) from the Issuing Bank a Participation Interest in the outstanding LOC Obligations as shall be necessary to cause such Revolving Lender to share in such LOC Obligations ratably (based upon its respective Revolving Commitment Percentages (determined before giving effect to any termination of the Revolving Commitments pursuant to )); that in the event such purchase is not made on the day of such drawing, such Revolving Lender shall pay in addition to the Issuing Bank interest on the amount of its unfunded Participation Interest at a rate equal to, if paid within two Business Days of the date of such drawing, the Federal Funds Rate, and thereafter at the Base Rate.
Repayment with Revolving Loans
Article 7
Section 2.2
Section 2.2
Article 7
notwithstanding
Section 4.2
Article 7
provided
 
(e) . Notwithstanding that a Letter of Credit issued or outstanding hereunder is in support of any obligations of, or is for the account of, a Subsidiary of any Credit Party, the Borrower shall be obligated to reimburse the Issuing Bank hereunder for any and all drawings under such Letter of Credit. The Borrower hereby acknowledges that the issuance of Letters of Credit for the account of Subsidiaries of any Credit Party inures to the benefit of the Borrower, and that the Borrower's business derives substantial benefits from the businesses of such Subsidiaries.
Designation of other Credit Parties as Account Parties
 
(f) . The extension of any Letter of Credit shall, for purposes hereof, be treated in all respects the same as the issuance of a new Letter of Credit hereunder.
Renewal/Extension
 
(g) . Unless otherwise expressly agreed by the Issuing Bank and the Borrower when a Letter of Credit is issued, (i) the rules of the "International Standby Practices 1998" published by the Institute of International Banking Law & Practice (or such later version thereof as may be in effect at the time of issuance) shall apply to each standby Letter of Credit, and (ii) the rules of the Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits, as most recently published by the International Chamber of Commerce (the "") shall apply to each trade Letter of Credit.
Applicability of ISP98 and UCP
ICC
 
(h) .
Indemnification; Nature of Issuing Bank's Duties
 
(i) In addition to its other obligations under this , the Borrower hereby agrees to protect, indemnify, pay, save and hold the Issuing Bank and the Revolving Lenders harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, liabilities, damages, losses, costs, charges and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, excluding the allocated cost of internal counsel) that the Issuing Bank or any Revolving Lender may incur or be subject to as a consequence, direct or indirect, of (A) the issuance of any Letter of Credit or (B) the failure of the Issuing Bank to honor a drawing under a Letter of Credit as a result of any act or omission, whether rightful or wrongful, of any present or future de jure or de facto government or governmental authority not resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Issuing Bank or the Revolving Lenders, as applicable (all such acts or omissions, herein called "").
Section 2.16
Government Acts
 
(ii) As between the Borrower and the Issuing Bank, the Borrower shall assume all risks of the acts, omissions or misuse of any Letter of Credit by the beneficiary thereof. The Issuing Bank shall not be responsible: (A) for the form, validity, sufficiency, accuracy, genuineness or legal effect of any LOC Document or other document submitted by any Person in connection with the application for and issuance of any Letter of Credit, even if it should in fact prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, inaccurate, fraudulent or forged; (B) for the validity or sufficiency of any instrument transferring or assigning or purporting to transfer or assign any Letter of Credit or the rights or benefits thereunder or proceeds thereof, in whole or in part, that may prove to be invalid or ineffective for any reason; (C) for errors, omissions, interruptions or delays in transmission or delivery of any messages, by mail, cable, telegraph, telex, swift or otherwise, whether or not they be in cipher; (D) for any loss or delay in the transmission or otherwise of any document required in order to make a drawing under a Letter of Credit or of the proceeds thereof; and (E) for any consequences arising from causes beyond the control of the Issuing Bank, including, without limitation, any Government Acts. None of the above shall affect, impair, or prevent the vesting of the Issuing Bank's rights or powers hereunder.
 
(iii) In furtherance and extension and not in limitation of the specific provisions hereinabove set forth, any action taken or omitted by the Issuing Bank, under or in connection with any Letter of Credit or the related certificates, if taken or omitted in good faith, shall not put such Issuing Bank under any resulting liability to the Borrower or any other Credit Party. It is the intention of the parties that this Credit Agreement shall be construed and applied to protect and indemnify the Issuing Bank against any and all risks involved in the issuance of the Letters of Credit, all of which risks are hereby assumed by the Borrower (on behalf of itself and each other Credit Party), including, without limitation, risks associated with any and all Government Acts. The Issuing Bank shall not, in any way, be liable for any failure by the Issuing Bank or anyone else to pay any drawing under any Letter of Credit as a result of any Government Acts or any other cause beyond the control of the Issuing Bank.
 
(iv) Nothing in this is intended to limit the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower contained in and above. The obligations of the Borrower under this shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement and the Commitments. No act or omissions of any current or prior beneficiary of a Letter of Credit shall in any way affect or impair the rights of the Issuing Bank to enforce any right, power or benefit under this Credit Agreement.
subsection (h)
subsections (c)
(d)
subsection (h)
 
(v) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall have no obligation to indemnify the Issuing Bank in respect of any liability incurred by the Issuing Bank (A) arising out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Issuing
 
Bank, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction or (B) caused by the Issuing Bank's failure to pay under any Letter of Credit after presentation to it of a draw request strictly complying with the terms and conditions of such Letter of Credit, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, unless such payment is prohibited by any Applicable Law.
 
(i) . It is expressly understood and agreed that the obligations of the Issuing Bank hereunder to the Revolving Lenders are only those expressly set forth in this Credit Agreement and that the Issuing Bank shall be entitled to assume that the conditions precedent set forth in have been satisfied unless it shall have acquired actual knowledge that any such condition precedent has not been satisfied; , , that nothing set forth in this shall be deemed to prejudice the right of any Revolving Lender to recover from the Issuing Bank any amounts made available by such Revolving Lender to the Issuing Bank pursuant to this in the event that it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that a payment by the Issuing Bank with respect to a Letter of Credit constituted gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Issuing Bank.
Responsibility of Issuing Bank
Section 4.2
provided
however
Section 2.16
Section 2.16
 
(j) . Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the Issuing Bank shall not be under any obligation to issue or extend any Letter of Credit if (i) any order, judgment, writ or decree of any Governmental Authority or arbitrator shall by its terms purport to enjoin or restrain the Issuing Bank from issuing a Letter of Credit, or any Applicable Law or any guideline, request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) from any Governmental Authority with jurisdiction over the Issuing Bank shall prohibit, provide or request that the Issuing Bank refrain from, the issuance of letters of credit generally or such Letter of Credit in particular, or shall impose upon the Issuing Bank with respect to such Letter of Credit any restriction, reserve or capital requirement (for which the Issuing Bank is not otherwise compensated hereunder) not in effect on the Closing Date, or shall impose upon the Issuing Bank any unreimbursed loss, costs or expense that was not applicable on the Closing Date and that the Issuing Bank in good faith deems material to it, or (ii) such issuance or extension would violate or otherwise contravene the internal policies of the Issuing Bank.
Limitation on Obligation of the Issuing Bank
 
(k) . In the event of any conflict between this Credit Agreement and any LOC Document (including any application for a Letter of Credit), this Credit Agreement shall control.
Conflict with LOC Documents
 
Section 2.17 .
Additional Provisions Relating to Swingline Loans
 
The Swingline Lender may, at any time, in its sole discretion, by written notice to the Borrower and the Revolving Lenders, demand repayment of its Swingline Loans by way of a Revolving Loan advance, in which case the Borrower shall be deemed to have requested a Revolving Loan advance comprised solely of Base Rate Loans in the amount of such Swingline Loans; , , that any such demand shall be deemed to have been given one Business Day prior to the Revolving Commitment Termination Date and on the date of the occurrence of any Event of Default described in and upon acceleration of the indebtedness hereunder and the exercise of remedies in accordance with the provisions of . Each Revolving Lender hereby irrevocably agrees to make its Revolving Commitment Percentage of each such Revolving Loan in the amount, in the manner and on the date specified in the preceding sentence that (a) the amount of such Revolving Loan may not comply with the minimum amount for advances of Revolving Loans otherwise required hereunder, (b) whether any conditions specified in are then satisfied, (c) whether a Default or an Event of Default then exists, (d) failure of any such request or deemed request for a Revolving Loan to be made by the time otherwise required hereunder, (e) whether the date of such borrowing is a date on which Revolving Loans are otherwise permitted to be made hereunder or (f) any termination of the Revolving Commitments relating thereto immediately prior to or contemporaneously with such borrowing. In the
provided
however
Article 7
Article 7
notwithstanding
Section 4.2
 
event that any Revolving Loan cannot for any reason be made on the date otherwise required above (including, without limitation, as a result of the commencement of a proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code with respect to the Borrower or any other Credit Party), then each Revolving Lender hereby agrees that it shall forthwith purchase (as of the date such borrowing would otherwise have occurred, but adjusted for any payments received from the Borrower on or after such date and prior to such purchase) from the Swingline Lender such Participation Interests in the outstanding Swingline Loans as shall be necessary to cause each such Revolving Lender to share in such Swingline Loans ratably based upon its Revolving Commitment Percentage (determined before giving effect to any termination of the Revolving Commitments pursuant to ); that (i) all interest payable on the Swingline Loans shall be for the account of the Swingline Lender until the date as of which the respective Participation Interests are funded and (ii) at the time any purchase of Participation Interests pursuant to this is actually made, the purchasing Revolving Lender shall be required to pay to the Swingline Lender, to the extent not paid to the Swingline Lender by the Borrower in accordance with the terms hereof, interest on the principal amount of Participation Interests purchased for each day from and including the day upon which such borrowing would otherwise have occurred to but excluding the date of payment for such Participation Interests, at the rate equal to the Federal Funds Rate.
Article 7
provided
Section 2.17
 
Section 2.18 .
Lending Office
 
Each Lender agrees that (a) its Lending Office with respect to Base Rate Loans shall be located in the United States and (b) no Lender shall be permitted to change its Lending Office if, at the time and as a direct result of such change, either (x) pursuant to the provisions of , such Lender would be unable to make, fund or maintain its Eurodollar Rate Loans; or (y) the Borrower would be required to make any payment to such Lender pursuant to the provisions of , , , or .
Section 2.12
Section 2.8(b)
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.16
 
Section 2.19 .
Addition, Release and Substitution of Mortgaged Properties
 
The Borrower may at any time include additional Real Property Assets in the Borrowing Base by delivery to the Administrative Agent of executed Mortgages in respect thereof and such other items as may be required to qualify the property as an "Eligible Property" hereunder. The Borrower may also request a release of various Mortgaged Properties from the Liens and security interests of the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the Mortgages relating thereto, and the Administrative Agent will, at the Borrower's expense, act promptly to execute such documents as necessary to give effect to any such release; that the following conditions shall be satisfied in connection with any such release (i) after giving effect to such release, the outstanding principal amount of Loan Obligations shall not exceed the Borrowing Base, (ii) no Default or Event of Default shall exist immediately after giving effect thereto, and (iii) where the Property Value of Mortgaged Properties so released after the Closing Date shall exceed $50 million in the aggregate, then the Borrower shall demonstrate that the Stipulated Debt Service Coverage Ratio will not be less than 1.40:1.0 after giving effect to any such release on a Pro Forma Basis. The Borrower may from time to time, at its sole cost and expense, procure updated Valuations, which updated Valuations shall thereafter be utilized for purposes of determining Property Values, calculating the Borrowing Base and determining the Borrower's right to releases of Mortgaged Properties under this .
provided
Section 2.19
 
Section 2.20 .
Pro Rata Treatment
 
Except to the extent otherwise provided herein:
 
(a) .
Loans
 
(i) Each advance of a Revolving Loan, each payment or prepayment of the principal of the Revolving Loans (other than Swingline Loans, the principal of which shall be paid solely to the Swingline Lender), each reimbursement obligation arising from drawings under Letters of Credit or other payment of LOC Obligations, each payment of interest on the Revolving Loans (other than Swingline Loans, interest on which shall be paid solely to the Swingline Lender), each payment of the Facility Fees, each payment of a Letter of Credit Fee, each reduction of the Revolving Commitments and each continuation or conversion of Revolving Loans shall be allocated pro rata among the Revolving Lenders according to their respective Revolving Commitment Percentages; and
 
(ii) the advance of the Tranche B Term Loan (if any), each payment or prepayment of the principal of the Tranche B Term Loan, each payment of interest on the Tranche B Term Loan and each continuation or conversion of the Tranche B Term Loan shall be allocated pro rata among the Tranche B Term Lenders according to their respective Tranche B Term Loan Commitment Percentages.
 
(b) .
Advances
 
(i) No Lender shall be responsible for the failure or delay by any other Lender in its obligation to make its ratable share of a borrowing hereunder; , however, that the failure of any Lender to fulfill its obligations hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder.
provided
 
(ii) Unless the Borrower or any Lender has notified the Administrative Agent prior to the date any payment is required to be made by it to the Administrative Agent hereunder, that the Borrower or such Lender, as the case may be, will not make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that the Borrower or such Lender, as the case may be, has timely made such payment and may (but shall not be so required to), in reliance thereon, make available a corresponding amount to the Person entitled thereto. If and to the extent that such payment was not in fact made to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds, then:
 
(A) if the Borrower failed to make such payment, each Lender shall forthwith on demand repay to the Administrative Agent the portion of such assumed payment that was made available to such Lender in immediately available funds, together with interest thereon in respect of each day from and including the date such amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to such Lender to the date such amount is repaid to the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds, at the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect; and
 
(B) if any Lender failed to make such payment, such Lender shall forthwith on demand pay to the Administrative Agent the amount thereof in immediately available funds, together with interest thereon for the period from the date such amount was made available by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower to the date such amount is recovered by the Administrative Agent (the "") at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate from time to time in effect. If such Lender does not pay
Compensation Period
 
such amount forthwith upon the Administrative Agent's demand therefor, the Administrative Agent may make a demand therefor upon the Borrower, and the Borrower shall pay such amount to the Administrative Agent, together with interest thereon for the Compensation Period at a rate per annum equal to the rate of interest applicable to the applicable Borrowing. Nothing herein shall be deemed to relieve any Lender from its obligation to fulfill its Commitment or to prejudice any rights that the Administrative Agent or the Borrower may have against any Lender as a result of any default by such Lender hereunder. A notice of the Administrative Agent to any Lender with respect to any amount owing under this shall be conclusive, absent manifest error.
Section 2.20(b)(ii)(B)
 
Section 2.21 .
Sharing of Payments
 
(a) . The Lenders agree that, in the event that any Lender shall obtain payment in respect of any Revolving Loan, LOC Obligation, the Tranche B Term Loan or any other obligation owing to such Lender under this Credit Agreement through the exercise of a right of setoff, banker's lien or counterclaim, or pursuant to a secured claim under Section 506 of the Bankruptcy Code or other security or interest arising from, or in lieu of, such secured claim, received by such Lender under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law or otherwise, or by any other means, in excess of its pro rata share of such payment as provided in this Credit Agreement, such Lender shall promptly purchase from the other Lenders a Participation Interest in such Revolving Loan, LOC Obligation, the Tranche B Term Loan or other obligations in such amounts, and make such other adjustments from time to time, as shall be equitable to the end that all the Lenders share such payment in accordance with their respective Revolving Commitment Percentages and/or Term Loan Commitment Percentages, as provided in this Credit Agreement. The Lenders further agree that if payment to any such Lender obtained by such Lender through the exercise of a right of setoff, banker's lien, counterclaim or other event as aforesaid shall be rescinded or must otherwise be restored, each Lender that shall have shared the benefit of such payment shall, by repurchase of a Participation Interest theretofore sold, return its share of that benefit (together with its share of any accrued interest payable with respect thereto) to each such Lender whose payment shall have been rescinded or otherwise restored. The Borrower agrees that any Lender so purchasing such a Participation Interest may, to the fullest extent permitted by law, except as otherwise described in , exercise all rights of payment, including setoff, banker's lien or counterclaim, with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a holder of such Revolving Loan, LOC Obligation, the Tranche B Term Loan or other obligation in the amount of such Participation Interest. If under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law, any Lender receives a secured claim in lieu of a setoff to which this applies, such Lender shall, to the extent practicable, exercise its rights in respect of such secured claim in a manner consistent with the rights of the Lenders under this to share in the benefits of any recovery on such secured claim.
Lenders
Section 2.21(c)
Section 2.21(a)
Section 2.21(a)
 
(b) . Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Credit Agreement, if any Lender or the Administrative Agent shall fail to remit to the Administrative Agent or any other Lender an amount payable by such Lender or the Administrative Agent to the Administrative Agent or such other Lender pursuant to this Credit Agreement on the date when such amount is due, such payments shall be made together with interest thereon for each date from the date such amount is due until the date such amount is paid to the Administrative Agent or such other Lender at a rate per annum equal to the Federal Funds Rate.
Lenders and Administrative Agent
 
(c) . If the Administrative Agent or any Lender has heretofore entered into, or hereafter enters into, any letter or other agreement by which the Administrative Agent or such Lender agrees not to exercise any right of set-off, off-set or similar right, then the Administrative Agent and/or such Lender(s) (as applicable) shall continue to be bound by such agreements not to exercise any right of
Off-Set
 
set-off, off-set or similar right, notwithstanding anything contained in this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document to the contrary.
 
 
 
In order to induce the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders to enter into this Credit Agreement, to make the Loans, to make the Extensions of Credit hereunder, the Credit Parties, jointly and severally, make the following representations and warranties to, and agreements with, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders, all of which shall survive the execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement, the issuance of any notes evidencing any of the Loans hereunder, the making of the Loans and the issuance of the Letters of Credit:
 
Section 3.1 .
Existence and Power
 
(a) The Borrower is a limited partnership duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Delaware and is qualified to do business and is in good standing in all jurisdictions where both (i) the nature of its properties or business so requires and (ii) the failure to be in good standing is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (a list of such jurisdictions as of the Closing Date is attached hereto as ). Ventas is the sole general partner of the Borrower. hereto contains a true and complete list of all of the limited partners of the Borrower as of the Closing Date.
Schedule 3.1(a)
Schedule 3.1(a)
 
(b) Ventas is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of Delaware and is qualified to do business and is in good standing in all jurisdictions where both (i) the nature of its properties or business so requires and (ii) the failure to be in good standing is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (a list of such jurisdictions as of the Closing Date is attached hereto as ).
Schedule 3.1(b)
 
(c) Each Credit Party acquired or created after the Closing Date shall be a corporation, limited liability company, limited partnership, general partnership or business trust duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and shall be qualified to do business and shall be in good standing in all jurisdictions where both (i) the nature of its properties or business so requires and (ii) the failure to be in good standing is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(d) Each of the Credit Parties has the partnership, company or corporate, as the case may be, power and authority (i) to own its respective properties and carry on its respective business as now being, or as now intended to be, conducted where the failure to do so is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, (ii) to execute, deliver and perform, as applicable, its obligations under the Fundamental Documents to which it is or will be a party, and (iii) to grant to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, a security interest in the Collateral and the Mortgaged Properties owned by it as contemplated by this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents to which it is or will be a party; and in the case of the Borrower, to execute, deliver and perform its obligations under this Credit Agreement and any notes evidencing any of the Loans hereunder and to borrow hereunder; and in the case of the Guarantors, to guaranty the Obligations as contemplated by hereof.
Article 9
 
(e) Ventas has the corporate power and authority as the Borrower's general partner, on behalf of the Borrower, to execute, deliver and perform the obligations of the Borrower under the
 
Fundamental Documents (including, without limitation, this Credit Agreement and any notes evidencing any of the Loans hereunder) and any other documents contemplated hereby or thereby to which the Borrower is or will be a party, to grant to the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, a security interest in the Collateral and the Mortgaged Properties owned by the Borrower as contemplated by this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents to which the Borrower is or will be a party, and to cause the Borrower to borrow hereunder.
 
Section 3.2 .
Authority and No Violation
 
Except as set forth in hereto, the execution, delivery and performance of this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents to which it is a party, by each Credit Party and by the Borrower's general partner, Ventas, on behalf of the Borrower, the grant to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties of the security interest in the Collateral and the Mortgaged Properties as contemplated by this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents to which it is or will be a party, by each Credit Party and by the Borrower's general partner, Ventas, on behalf of the Borrower, and, in the case of the Borrower, the Borrowings hereunder and the execution, delivery and performance of the notes evidencing any of the Loans hereunder and, in the case of each Guarantor, the guaranty of the Obligations as contemplated in hereof, (i) have been duly authorized by all necessary company, partnership or corporate (as applicable) action on the part of each such Credit Party, (ii) will not constitute a violation of any provision of Applicable Law or any order of any Governmental Authority applicable to such Credit Party or any of its respective properties or assets, (iii) will not violate any provision of the certificate of incorporation, bylaws, partnership agreement, limited liability company agreement, articles of organization or any other organizational document of any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party, or any provision of any material indenture, agreement, bond, note, mortgage, deed of trust, or other similar instrument to which such Credit Party is a party or by which such Credit Party or any of its respective properties or assets are bound or to which such Credit Party is subject, (iv) will not be in conflict with, result in a breach of, or constitute (with due notice or lapse of time or both) a default under, or create any right to terminate, any such indenture, agreement, bond, note, mortgage, deed of trust, or other instrument, and (v) will not result in the creation or imposition of (or the obligation to create or impose) any Lien whatsoever upon any of the properties or assets of any of the Credit Parties or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party other than pursuant to this Credit Agreement or the other Fundamental Documents.
Schedule 3.2
Article 9
 
Section 3.3 .
Governmental Approval
 
(a) All authorizations, approvals, orders, consents, licenses, registrations or filings from or with any Governmental Authority (other than the filing of UCC financing statements and the recordation of the Mortgages and the Assignments of Leases and Rents, all of which will be delivered to the Administrative Agent in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement, in form suitable for recording or filing with the appropriate filing office) required for the execution, delivery and performance by any Credit Party or Ventas (as the Borrower's general partner on behalf of the Borrower) of this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents to which it is a party, and the execution and delivery by the Borrower of any notes evidencing any of the Loans hereunder, have been duly obtained or made, and are in full force and effect.
 
(b) Each Credit Party and each Subsidiary of a Credit Party has obtained and holds in full force and effect all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents, franchises, permits, certificates (including, without limitation, certificates of need), accreditations, easements, rights of way and other approvals necessary to own its respective property and assets and to carry on its respective business as conducted, other than those the absence of which is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(c) From the 2002 Closing Date to the Closing Date, except as set forth on hereto, no Credit Party nor any Subsidiary of a Credit Party has been notified by any relevant state licensing authority or other Governmental Authority with respect to a material license to operate its business as currently being conducted of such authority's intention to rescind, or not renew, any such license.
Schedule 3.3(c)
 
Section 3.4 .
Binding Agreements
 
Each Credit Party has duly executed and delivered this Credit Agreement and each other Fundamental Document to which it is a party. Each of this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents constitutes the legal, valid and binding obligation of each Credit Party that is a party thereto, enforceable against such Credit Party in accordance with its respective terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency and similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, whether such enforceability is considered in a proceeding at law or in equity.
 
Section 3.5 .
No Material Adverse Effect
 
(a) Except as set forth on hereto, since December 31, 2003, there has been no Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 3.5
 
(b) No Credit Party has entered or is entering into the arrangements contemplated hereby and by the other Fundamental Documents, or intends to make any transfer or incur any obligations hereunder or thereunder, with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud either present or future creditors. On and as of the Closing Date, on a pro forma basis after giving effect to all Indebtedness (including the Loans) expected to be borrowed or repaid on the Closing Date: (i) each Credit Party expects the assets available to such Credit Party, after taking into account all other anticipated uses of the assets of such Credit Party (including the payments on or in respect of debt referred to in clause of this ), will be sufficient to satisfy all final judgments for money damages which have been docketed against such Credit Party or which may be rendered against such Credit Party in any action in which such Credit Party is a defendant (taking into account the reasonably anticipated amount of any such judgment and the earliest time at which such judgment might be entered); (ii) the sum of the present fair saleable value of the assets of each Credit Party will exceed the probable liability of such Credit Party on its debts (including its Guaranties); (iii) no Credit Party will have incurred or intends to, or believes that it will, incur debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as such debts mature (taking into account the timing and amounts of cash to be received by such Credit Party from any source, and of amounts to be payable on or in respect of debts of such Credit Party and the amounts referred to in clause ); and (iv) each Credit Party believes it will have sufficient capital with which to conduct its present and proposed business and the property of such Credit Party does not constitute unreasonably small capital with which to conduct its present or proposed business. For purposes of this , "debt" means any liability or claim, and "claim" means any (y) right to payment whether or not such right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured, or (z) right to an equitable remedy for breach of performance if such breach gives rise to a payment, whether or not such right is reduced to judgment, liquidated, unliquidated, fixed, contingent, matured, unmatured, disputed, undisputed, legal, equitable, secured or unsecured.
(iii)
Section 3.5(b)
(i)
Section 3.5(b)
 
Section 3.6 .
Financial Information
 
(a) (i) The audited, consolidated balance sheet of Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries at December 31, 2003 and (ii) the unaudited, condensed, consolidated balance sheet of Ventas and its
 
Consolidated Subsidiaries at June 30, 2004, together in each case with the related statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows and the related notes and supplemental information, in the forms which have previously been delivered to the Lenders, have been prepared in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, except as otherwise indicated in the notes to such financial statements and subject in the case of unaudited statements, to changes resulting from year-end and audit adjustments. All of such financial statements fairly present, in accordance with GAAP, the consolidated financial position and the results of operations, as the case may be, of Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, at the dates or for the periods indicated.
 
(b) During the period from December 31, 2003 to and including the Closing Date, none of the Borrower, Ventas, any other Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party has incurred any material Indebtedness or Guaranty other than Indebtedness and Guaranties that (i) would have been permitted under this Credit Agreement if this Credit Agreement was in effect during such time period or (ii) is described on hereto.
Schedule 3.6(b)
 
Section 3.7 .
Credit Parties
 
(a) Annexed hereto as is a correct and complete list as of the Closing Date, of each Credit Party and each Subsidiary of a Credit Party showing, as to each, (i) its name, (ii) the jurisdiction in which it was incorporated or otherwise organized, (iii) in the case of a Credit Party which is a corporation, its authorized capitalization, the number of shares of its Capital Stock outstanding and in the case of a Credit Party other than Ventas, the ownership of such Capital Stock, (iv) in the case of a Credit Party which is a limited partnership, the general partners and limited partners of such Credit Party and the ownership of its partnership interests, and (v) in the case of a Credit Party which is a limited liability company, the members of such Credit Party and the ownership of its limited liability company interests.
Schedule 3.7(a)
 
(b) As of the Closing Date, no Credit Party owns any voting stock or other beneficial interest, either directly or indirectly, in any Person other than another Credit Party or as set forth on hereto.
Schedule 3.7(b)
 
(c) As of the Closing Date, no Credit Party is a limited or general partner in any joint venture or partnership, except that Ventas is the general partner of the Borrower and Ventas is a limited partner of ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership.
 
Section 3.8 .
Patents, Trademarks, Copyrights and Other Rights
 
There is no patent, patent right or license, trademark, service mark, tradename, trademark right or license, copyright, copyright right or license or any other similar right which is material to the operation of the business as presently conducted of any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party. To any Credit Party's knowledge after due inquiry, no material product, process, method, substance, part or other material presently sold by or employed by a Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party in connection with its business infringes any patent, trademark, service mark, tradename, copyright, license or other such similar right owned by any other Person.
 
Section 3.9 .
Fictitious Names
 
Except as disclosed on hereto, none of the Credit Parties is doing business or intends to do business other than under its full corporate, partnership or company name (as applicable), including, without limitation, under any trade name or other doing business name; , that if any of the Credit Parties intends to do business other than under its full corporate, partnership or company name (as
Schedule 3.9
provided
 
applicable), including, without limitation, under any trade name or other doing business name, it shall have provided the Administrative Agent with reasonable prior written or facsimile notice of its intention to do so.
 
Section 3.10 .
Title to Properties
 
(a) Except as set forth on hereto, the Credit Parties and their Subsidiaries have good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, each of the Mortgaged Properties listed on and hereto (other than such properties or assets disposed of in the ordinary course of business since the date of the financial statements referred to in hereof or as permitted hereunder) and all Collateral and Mortgaged Properties are free and clear of Liens, except Permitted Encumbrances. For purposes of this , the Sandwich Leases shall not be deemed to be property or assets reflected on the financial statements referred to in hereof.
Schedule 3.10
Schedules 3.23(a)
3.23(b)
Section 3.6
Section 3.10
Section 3.6
 
(b) Each of the Credit Parties and each Subsidiary of a Credit Party has complied in all material respects with all Material Leases and has given notice under of all defaults for which notice must be given in accordance with , is aware of no such defaults for which notice is required but has not been given pursuant to under any such Material Lease or any conditions which with the passage of time or delivery of notice would constitute such a default thereunder and all such Material Leases are in full force and effect except as permitted hereunder. Each of the Credit Parties and each Subsidiary of a Credit Party which is a lessee under any Material Lease, enjoys peaceful and undisturbed possession of the Mortgaged Properties leased pursuant to such lease, subject to Permitted Encumbrances.
Section 5.1(l)
Section 5.1(l)
Section 5.1(l)
 
(c) No Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party is obligated under any right of first refusal, option or other contractual right to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of any Mortgaged Property or any interest therein except for such rights of first refusal, options or other contractual rights expressly permitted by hereof and contracts for the sale of assets permitted hereunder.
Section 6.2(i)
 
Section 3.11 .
Places of Business
 
The chief executive office of each Credit Party is, on the Closing Date, as set forth on hereto. All of the places where each Credit Party keeps the records concerning the Collateral or any Mortgaged Property on the Closing Date or regularly keeps any item included in the Collateral on the Closing Date are also listed on hereto. The location of each Credit Party for purposes of the UCC is as set forth on hereto.
Schedule 3.11
Schedule 3.11
Schedule 3.11
 
Section 3.12 .
Litigation; Judgments
 
(a) Except as set forth on hereto and except for litigation for which a Credit Party has been fully indemnified and such indemnity remains in full force and effect and has not been cancelled or terminated, there are no actions, suits or other proceedings at law or in equity by or before any arbitrator or arbitration panel, or any Governmental Authority (including, but not limited to, matters relating to environmental liability) nor, to the best of each Credit Party's knowledge, any investigation by any Governmental Authority of the affairs of, or threatened action, suit or other proceeding against or affecting, any Credit Party, any Subsidiary of a Credit Party or of any of their respective properties or rights which either (A) could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (B) relate to this Credit Agreement, any Loans hereunder or a material portion of the Collateral and the Mortgaged Properties. No Credit Party and no Subsidiary of a Credit Party is in default, beyond any applicable cure period, with respect to any order, writ, injunction, decree, rule or regulation of any Governmental
Schedule 3.12
 
Authority binding upon such Person, which default could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(b) There are no final, nonappealable judgments or decrees for the payment of money in an aggregate amount of ten million dollars ($10,000,000) or more entered by a court or courts of competent jurisdiction against the Credit Parties and their Subsidiaries (other than (i) judgments as to which, and only to the extent, a reputable insurance company has acknowledged coverage of such claim in writing or (ii) judgments as to which a Credit Party has been fully indemnified provided such indemnity remains in full force and effect and has not been cancelled or terminated).
 
Section 3.13 .
Federal Reserve Regulations
 
No Credit Party nor any Subsidiary of a Credit Party is engaged principally or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any Margin Stock. No part of the proceeds of the Loans will be used, directly or indirectly, whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately (i) to purchase or carry any Margin Stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any Margin Stock, or (ii) for any other purpose, in each case, violative of or inconsistent with any of the provisions of any regulation of the Board, including, without limitation, Regulations T, U and X thereto.
 
Section 3.14 .
Investment Company Act
 
No Credit Party nor any Subsidiary of a Credit Party is, or will during the term of this Credit Agreement be, (i) an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company", within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or (ii) subject to regulation under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, the Federal Power Act or any foreign, federal or local statute or any other Applicable Law of the United States of America or any other jurisdiction, in each case limiting its ability to incur indebtedness for money borrowed as contemplated hereby or by any other Fundamental Document, except for fraudulent conveyance, fraudulent transfer and similar laws relating to creditors' rights generally.
 
Section 3.15 .
Taxes
 
Each Credit Party and each Subsidiary of a Credit Party has filed or caused to be filed all United States federal tax returns, state income tax returns and other material tax returns which are required to be filed with any Governmental Authority after giving effect to applicable extensions, and has paid or has caused to be paid all taxes as shown on said returns or on any assessment received by them, to the extent that such taxes have become due, except as permitted by hereof. No Credit Party knows of any material additional assessments which have not been disclosed to the Administrative Agent or reserved for on Ventas' financial statements. In the reasonable, good faith opinion of the Credit Parties, the charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Credit Parties and their Subsidiaries in respect of taxes or other governmental charges are adequate.
Section 5.9
 
Section 3.16 .
Compliance with ERISA
 
(a) Each Plan has been maintained and operated in all material respects in accordance with all Applicable Laws, including ERISA and the Code, and each Plan intended to qualify under Section 401(a) of the Code so qualifies. No Reportable Event has occurred in the last five years as to any Plan, and the present value of all benefits under all Plans subject to Title IV of ERISA determined on a plan termination basis (based on those actuarial assumptions prescribed by the PBGC for purposes of Section 4044 of ERISA) did not, in the aggregate, as of the last annual valuation date applicable thereto,
 
exceed the fair market value of the assets of such Plans allocable to such benefits by a material amount. No liability (including, without limitation, any indirect, contingent or secondary liability) for an amount that is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect has been, and no circumstances exist pursuant to which any such liability could be, imposed upon any Credit Party or ERISA Affiliate (i) under Chapter 43 of the Code, Section 409, 502(i), 502(l) or 515 of ERISA, or under Title IV of ERISA with respect to any Plan or Multiemployer Plan, or with respect to any Plan heretofore maintained by any Credit Party or ERISA Affiliate, or any entity that heretofore was an ERISA Affiliate, (ii) for the failure to fulfill any obligation to contribute to any Multiemployer Plan, or (iii) with respect to any Plan or welfare benefit plan (within the meaning of Section 3(1) of ERISA) that provides post-retirement welfare coverage (other than as required pursuant to Section 4980B of the Code). Neither any Credit Party nor any ERISA Affiliate has received any notification that any Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or has been terminated within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA; to the knowledge of any Credit Party, no Multiemployer Plan is reasonably expected to be in reorganization or to be terminated; and, using actuarial assumptions and computation methods consistent with Part 1 of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA, the aggregate liabilities of the Credit Parties and their ERISA Affiliates to all Multiemployer Plans in the event of a complete withdrawal therefrom, as of the close of the most recent fiscal year of each such plan then ended would not exceed an amount that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(b) The execution, delivery and performance of the Fundamental Documents and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby will not involve any "prohibited transaction" within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code.
 
Section 3.17 .
Agreements
 
(a) Except as set forth on hereto, no Credit Party nor any Subsidiary of a Credit Party is in default, beyond any applicable cure period, in the performance, observance or fulfillment of any of the obligations, covenants or conditions contained in any agreement or instrument (including, without limitation, the Material Leases) to which it is a party or by which it or any of its property or assets is bound in any respect, which default is reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 3.17(a)
 
(b) hereto is a true and complete listing as of the Closing Date of (i) all credit agreements, indentures, and other agreements related to any Indebtedness for borrowed money of any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party, other than the Fundamental Documents, (ii) all joint venture agreements to which any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party is a party, and (iii) all leases (other than subleases not entered into by a Credit Party) with respect to any Mortgaged Property.
Schedule 3.17(b)
 
Section 3.18 .
Security Interest
 
(a) This Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents (other than the Mortgages and the Assignments of Leases and Rents), when executed and delivered, will create and grant to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties (upon (i) the filing of the appropriate UCC-1 financing statements with the filing offices listed on hereto and (ii) the possession of or control over Collateral security interests in which must be perfected by possession or control, respectively, under the UCC), a valid and first priority perfected security interest in the Collateral for which a security interest may be perfected by filing a UCC-1 financing statement, by possession or by control, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances.
Schedule 3.18(a)
 
(b) The Mortgages and the Assignments of Leases and Rents, when executed and delivered, will create in favor of the Administrative Agent, for the benefit of the Secured Parties, a legal, valid and
 
enforceable first priority Lien on all of the Credit Parties' respective right, title and interest in and to all the Mortgaged Properties (except personality that does not constitute fixtures) and the proceeds thereof (provided that any cash proceeds are held in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents), and when the Mortgages and the Assignments of Leases and Rents are filed in the offices specified on hereto, the proper amount of mortgage recording or similar taxes (if any) are paid and when the UCC-1 financing statements relating to fixtures are duly filed with the filing offices listed on hereto, the Mortgages and the Assignments of Leases and Rents shall constitute fully perfected first priority Liens on, and fully perfected first priority security interests in, all right, title and interest of the Credit Parties' in all the Mortgaged Properties (except personality that does not constitute fixtures) and the proceeds thereof (provided that any cash proceeds are held in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents), in each case subject only to Permitted Encumbrances.
Schedule 3.18(b)
Schedule 3.18(b)
 
Section 3.19 .
Disclosure
 
Neither this Credit Agreement nor any other Fundamental Document nor any agreement, document, certificate or statement furnished to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender by or on behalf of any Credit Party in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby, at the time it was furnished or delivered, contained any untrue statement of a material fact regarding the Credit Parties or their Subsidiaries or, when taken together with all such other agreements, documents, certificates and statements, omitted to state a material fact necessary under the circumstances under which it was made in order to make the statements contained herein or therein not misleading. Except as set forth on hereto, there is no fact known to any Credit Party (other than general industry conditions or facts which have been disclosed to the Administrative Agent in writing) which has a Material Adverse Effect, or is reasonably likely in the future to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 3.5
 
Section 3.20 .
Environmental Matters
 
Except as may be disclosed in any Environmental Reports (as defined in this ) delivered after January 1, 2002 to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, or as is otherwise set forth on hereto,
Section 3.20
Schedule 3.20
 
(a) there are no past, pending, or (to the knowledge of the Credit Parties) threatened Environmental Claims against, affecting or with respect to, any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party or any Premises, and no Credit Party nor any Subsidiary of any Credit Party is aware of any facts or circumstances which could reasonably be expected to form the basis for any such Environmental Claim, except to the extent that any such Environmental Claims, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(b) To the knowledge of the Credit Parties, no Premises is currently or was formerly used for the handling, storage, treatment, disposal, manufacture, processing or generation of Hazardous Materials, except to the extent that any such activity, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect on any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party;
 
(c) None of the Credit Parties has received any written notice that any tenants, operators or occupants of any Premises have failed to obtain and hold all necessary Environmental Permits, except to the extent that any failure to hold any such Environmental Permit, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(d) Each Credit Party and each Subsidiary of each Credit Party is in compliance with all terms, conditions and provisions of all applicable (i) Environmental Permits, and (ii) Environmental
 
Laws, except to the extent that any such non-compliance, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(e) No Releases of Hazardous Materials have occurred at, from, in, to, on, or under any Premises, and no Hazardous Materials are present in, on, about or migrating to or from any Premises, except to the extent that any such Releases or presence of Hazardous Materials, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(f) Neither any Credit Party nor any Subsidiary of any Credit Party, nor any predecessor of any Credit Party or Subsidiary of any Credit Party, nor any entity previously owned by any Credit Party or Subsidiary of any Credit Party, has transported or arranged for the treatment, storage, handling, disposal, or transportation of any Hazardous Material to any location (other than any Premises) which could result in an Environmental Claim against any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party, except to the extent that any such activity, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(g) No Premises is a current, or to the knowledge of any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party, a proposed Environmental Clean-up Site, except to the extent as would not have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(h) To the knowledge of the Credit Parties, there are no (1) underground storage tanks (active or abandoned) located at any of the Premises, (2) polychlorinated biphenyl containing equipment located at any of the Premises, (3) asbestos-containing material located at any of the Premises, or (4) lead-based paint located at any of the Premises, except to the extent that the presence of any of the foregoing, individually or in the aggregate, would not have a Material Adverse Effect; and
 
(i) There have been no environmental investigations, studies, audits, tests, reviews or other analyses (collectively, "") conducted since January 1, 2002 by or on behalf of, and which are in the possession of, any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party with respect to any Mortgaged Property which have not been delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Environmental Reports
 
Section 3.21 .
Compliance with Laws
 
(a) No Credit Party, Subsidiary of a Credit Party or any Mortgaged Property is in violation of any Applicable Law (including, without limitation, any Environmental Law) or any restrictions of record or agreements affecting any Mortgaged Property, except for such violations which in the aggregate are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(b) No Credit Party, Subsidiary of a Credit Party or any Mortgaged Property is in violation of any zoning or building law, ordinance, rule, regulation or restriction affecting a Mortgaged Property or any building permit, including, without limitation, any certificate of occupancy, except for such violations which in the aggregate are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(c) The Loans hereunder, the intended use of the proceeds of the Revolving Loans as contemplated by hereof, the issuance of the Letters of Credit hereunder and the performance of the Fundamental Documents will not violate any Applicable Law.
Section 5.15
 
Section 3.22 .
Projected Financial Information
 
The Borrower has delivered to the Administrative Agent those projections specifically described on hereto relating to Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries consisting of balance sheets,
Schedule 3.22
 
income statements and cash flows, together with a statement of the underlying assumptions. Such projected statements are based on good faith estimates and assumptions believed to be reasonable at the time made, it being recognized by the Lenders that such projections as to future events are not to be viewed as facts and that actual results during the period or periods covered by any such projections may differ from the projected results.
 
Section 3.23 .
Mortgaged Property
 
(a) is a true and complete list as of the Closing Date of (i) the facility number and street address of each Mortgaged Property owned by a Credit Party, (ii) the Credit Party which owns each such Mortgaged Property, (iii) the facility type of each such Mortgaged Property, (iv) the lease(s) to which each such Mortgaged Property is subject and (v) the name and address of the lessee of each such Mortgaged Property. Except as set forth on hereto, the applicable Credit Party has a fee simple title to each Mortgaged Property listed on hereto.
Schedule 3.23(a)
Schedule 3.10
Schedule 3.23(a)
 
(b) is a true and complete list as of the Closing Date of (i) the facility number and street address of each Mortgaged Property leased by a Credit Party, (ii) the Credit Party which leases each such Mortgaged Property, (iii) the facility type of such Mortgaged Property, (iii) the name and address of the owner/lessor of each such Mortgaged Property, (iv) the leases to which each such Mortgaged Property is subject and (v) the name and address of the sublessee of each such Mortgaged Property.
Schedule 3.23(b)
 
(c) As of the Closing Date, each of the Mortgaged Properties listed on either or hereto are leased (or subleased, as the case may be) by a Credit Party to the party listed opposite such Mortgaged Property under the column entitled "Lessee" in the case of a Mortgaged Property listed on hereto or "Sublessee" in the case of a Mortgaged Property listed on hereto.
Schedule 3.23(a)
Schedule 3.23(b)
Schedule 3.23(a)
Schedule 3.23(b)
 
(d) The leases for the Mortgaged Properties provide for "triple net" terms with respect to substantially all property related real estate taxes and insurance and operating expenses.
 
(e) Set forth on and are the Property Values of each Mortgaged Property, as determined as of the Closing Date in the Valuations delivered to the Administrative Agent.
Schedules 3.23(a)
3.23(b)
 
Section 3.24 .
No Default
 
No Default or Event of Default exists under or with respect to any Fundamental Document.
 
Section 3.25 .
Labor Matters
 
Except as set forth on hereto, there are no collective bargaining agreements or Multiemployer Plans covering the employees of any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party.
Schedule 3.25
 
Section 3.26 .
Organizational Documents
 
The documents delivered pursuant to constitute, as of the Closing Date, all of the Organizational Documents (together with all amendments and modifications thereof) of the Credit Parties as of the Closing Date. The Credit Parties represent that they have delivered to the Administrative Agent true, correct and complete copies of each of the documents set forth in .
Section 4.1(b)
Section 4.1(b)
 
Section 3.27 .
Insurance
 
The Credit Parties currently maintain, or cause to be maintained pursuant to the provisions of applicable leases or subleases, insurance at 100% replacement cost in respect of each of the Mortgaged Properties (but only pursuant and subject to the $150 million per occurrence policy amount limitation set forth in the Master Leases), as well as commercial general liability insurance against claims for personal, and bodily injury and/or death, to one or more Persons, or property damage, as well as workers' compensation insurance, in each case, with insurers having an A.M. Best policyholders' rating of not less than A-V, or an S&P rating of A or the equivalent thereto, in amounts as required under the Master Leases or other applicable Material Leases or as is customary for companies of the same or similar size in the same or similar businesses or such other ratings as are otherwise permitted under the Master Leases or other applicable Material Leases.
 
Section 3.28 .
REIT Status
 
Ventas is qualified to be taxed as a REIT for income tax purposes under the Code.
 
Section 3.29 .
Sandwich Leases
 
The annual base rent (exclusive of taxes, insurance, maintenance and impositions) provided under the Sandwich Leases does not exceed $45,000,000 in the aggregate, excluding the escalation provisions as set forth in such leases as in effect on the Closing Date and (b) the Credit Parties have either assigned or subleased the properties subject to the Sandwich Leases, and/or are indemnified for the amount of all payments thereunder except as is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
 
 
Section 4.1 .
Conditions Precedent to the Effectiveness of This Credit Agreement
 
The effectiveness of this Credit Agreement is subject to the satisfaction in full or waiver by the Required Lenders of the following conditions precedent:
 
(a) . The Administrative Agent shall have received executed counterparts of this Credit Agreement, which, when taken together, bear the signatures of the Administrative Agent, BAS, the Issuing Bank, all of the Credit Parties and all of the Lenders.
Credit Agreement
 
(b) . The Administrative Agent shall have received:
Supporting Documents of the Credit Parties
 
(i) a copy of the Certificate of Limited Partnership of the Borrower, certified as of a recent date by the Secretary of State (or other appropriate governmental official) of Delaware;
 
(ii) a certificate of the Secretary of State (or other governmental official) of Delaware, dated as of a recent date as to the good standing of, and payment of taxes by, the Borrower which certificate lists the documents on file in the office of such Secretary of State (or other governmental official) with respect to the Borrower;
 
(iii) a certificate dated as of a recent date as to the good standing and/or authority to do business of the Borrower issued by the Secretary of State or other appropriate governmental official of each jurisdiction listed in hereto;
Schedule 3.1(a)
 
(iv) a copy of the certificate of incorporation of Ventas, certified as of a recent date by the Secretary of State of Delaware;
 
(v) a certificate of the Secretary of State (or other governmental official) of Delaware dated as of a recent date as to the good standing of, and payment of taxes by, Ventas, which certificate lists the documents on file in the office of such Secretary of State (or other governmental official) with respect to Ventas;
 
(vi) a certificate dated as of a recent date as to the good standing and/or authority to do business of Ventas issued by the Secretary of State or other appropriate governmental official of each jurisdiction listed in hereto;
Schedule 3.1(b)
 
(vii) a certificate of the Secretary of Ventas, dated the Closing Date and certifying (A) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of the agreement of limited partnership of the Borrower as in effect on the date of such certification; (B) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of the by-laws of Ventas as in effect on the date of such certification; (C) that the respective organizational documents of the Borrower and Ventas have not been amended since the date of the last amendment thereto indicated on the certificates of the Secretary of State (or other governmental official) furnished pursuant to clauses and above, except to the extent specified in such Secretary's Certificate; (D) that attached thereto is a true and complete copy of resolutions adopted by Ventas' Board of Directors authorizing the Borrowings by the Borrower, the Guaranty hereunder by Ventas, the grant by the Borrower and Ventas of the security interests contemplated by the Fundamental Documents and the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower and Ventas in accordance with, the respective terms of this Credit Agreement, the other Fundamental Documents to which it is or will be a party and any other documents required or contemplated hereunder or thereunder and further certifying that such resolutions have not been amended, rescinded or supplemented and are currently in effect, and (E) as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each officer of Ventas executing this Credit Agreement, the Notes (on behalf of the Borrower), the other Fundamental Documents or any other document delivered in connection herewith or therewith on behalf of Ventas or on behalf of Ventas as the Borrower's general partner on behalf of the Borrower (such certificate to contain a certification by another officer of Ventas as to the incumbency and signature of the officer signing the certificate referred to in this clause ); and
(i)
(iv)
(vii)
 
(viii) such additional documents relating to the Borrower, Ventas, or any other Credit Party as the Administrative Agent or its counsel or any Lender may reasonably request.
 
(c) . The Administrative Agent shall have received the written opinions of (i) T. Richard Riney internal general counsel to the Credit Parties, with respect to the authorization, execution and delivery of the Fundamental Documents and certain other matters, and (ii) Barack Ferrazzano Kirschbaum Perlman & Nagelberg LLP, counsel to the Credit Parties, with respect to enforceability of this Credit Agreement and the Notes assuming that the substantive laws of the States of Illinois and New York are identical and certain other matters, each dated as of the Closing Date and addressed to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders, which opinions shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and to Moore & Van Allen PLLC, counsel to the Administrative Agent.
Opinion of Counsel
,
 
(d) . No Material Adverse Effect shall have occurred since December 31, 2003, except for matters disclosed in writing and reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders.
No Material Adverse Effect
 
(e) . The Administrative Agent shall have received appropriate Notes in favor of each Lender, each duly executed on behalf of the Borrower, dated the date hereof and payable to the order of such Lender in the principal amount equal to such Lender's Revolving Commitment.
Notes
 
(f) . The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and owing pursuant to the Fee Letter, which amounts shall be non-refundable under all circumstances. All out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with this Credit Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Fundamental Documents, including, without limitation, all statements presented for reasonable fees and disbursements of any financial, accounting or valuation advisors or special counsel retained by the Administrative Agent (including, but not limited to Moore & Van Allen PLLC, counsel to the Administrative Agent), shall have been paid by the Borrower.
Payment of Fees and Expenses
 
(g) . Except as set forth in and except for litigation for which a Credit Party has been fully indemnified or insured and such indemnity or insurance remains in full force and effect and has not been cancelled or terminated, no litigation, injunction or order shall be pending, entered or threatened which involves this Credit Agreement or any of the other Fundamental Documents or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby, or which in the Administrative Agent's good faith judgment is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Litigation
Schedule 3.12
 
(h) . The Administrative Agent shall be satisfied that all required consents and approvals have been obtained with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby from all Governmental Authorities with jurisdiction over the business and activities of any Credit Party and from any other entity whose consent, waiver or approval is required pursuant to the terms of existing contracts to which any of the Credit Parties is bound and which the Administrative Agent in its reasonable discretion deems necessary to the transactions contemplated hereby.
Required Consents and Approvals
 
(i) . The Lenders shall be satisfied that the transactions contemplated hereby will not violate any provision of Applicable Law, or any order of any Governmental Authority applicable to any of the Credit Parties or any of their respective properties or assets.
Compliance with Laws
 
(j) . After giving effect to the transactions contemplated by this Credit Agreement, the representations and warranties set forth in hereof and in any other Fundamental Document then in existence shall be true and correct in all material respects, and no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Representations and Warranties; No Default
Article 3
 
(k) . The Administrative Agent shall have received, in each case in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and Moore & Van Allen PLLC, counsel to the Administrative Agent:
Collateral Deliveries
 
(i) a duly executed amendment to Mortgage substantially in the form of hereto with respect to each Mortgaged Property;
Exhibit D-2
 
(ii) a duly executed amendment to Assignment of Leases and Rents substantially in the form of hereto with respect to each Mortgaged Property;
Exhibit D-4
 
(iii) a Title Policy date-down endorsement (or other amendment or re-issuance) and, in the case of addition or substitution of a new property, a title policy for the subject property reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, to the existing Title Policy with respect to each Mortgaged Property;
 
(iv) evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent that all financing statements, mortgages and other filings under Applicable Law necessary to provide the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) with a first priority perfected security interest in the Collateral (other than Collateral that cannot be perfected by the filing of a financing statement) and all Mortgaged Properties (subject in each case to Permitted Encumbrances) have been delivered to the Administrative Agent in satisfactory form for filing and all taxes, recording or other fees relating thereto have been paid or delivered to the Title Company(s) issuing the Title Policy date-down endorsements with respect to the Mortgaged Properties;
 
(v) (A) a summary of all existing insurance coverage maintained by a Credit Party, a Subsidiary thereof or Kindred with respect to the Mortgaged Properties and the Collateral, which summary shall include for each insurance policy, the policy number, the type of coverage, the policy limits and deductibles, the insurer (and reinsurers, if applicable) and the expiration date, (B) evidence reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent that the insurance policies required by have been obtained and are in full force and effect and (C) Certificates of Insurance with respect to all existing insurance coverage maintained by the Credit Parties and/or their Subsidiaries which is set forth on the summary delivered pursuant to clause above, which certificates shall comply with the requirements set forth in hereof; and
Section 5.5
(A)
Section 5.5
 
(vi) an updated and current Valuation for the Mortgaged Properties.
 
(l) . The Administrative Agent shall have received true and complete copies of each lease encumbering the Mortgaged Properties (including, without limitation, Master Lease No. 1) to which a Credit Party is a party, certified as of the Closing Date by an Authorized Officer of the Borrower.
Leases
 
(m) . The Administrative Agent shall have received a Borrowing Base Certificate signed by an Authorized Officer of the Borrower, substantially in the form of .
Borrowing Base Certificate
Exhibit E
 
(n) . The Administrative Agent shall have received a closing certificate signed by an Authorized Officer of the Borrower, substantially in the form of .
Closing Certificate
Exhibit G
 
(o) . The Prior Term Loan shall be paid in full simultaneously with the closing hereunder.
Prior Term Loan
 
(p) . All legal matters incident to this Credit Agreement, the Fundamental Documents and the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby shall be reasonably satisfactory to Moore & Van Allen PLLC, counsel to the Administrative Agent.
Approval of Counsel to the Administrative Agent
 
(q) . The Administrative Agent and its counsel shall have received such other documentation as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request.
Other Documents
 
Section 4.2 .
Conditions Precedent to Each Loan and Each Letter of Credit
 
The obligation of the Issuing Bank to issue each Letter of Credit and of the Lenders to make their respective Loans and if applicable, to participate in each Letter of Credit (including the initial Loans and/or Letter of Credit) are subject to the following conditions precedent:
 
(a) . The Administrative Agent shall have received a Notice of Borrowing with respect to such Borrowing or the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent shall have received a Letter of Credit Application with respect to such Letter of Credit as required by or hereof, as applicable, duly completed and executed by an Authorized Officer of the Borrower.
Notice
Section 2.2
Section 2.16
 
(b) . The representations and warranties set forth in hereof and in the other Fundamental Documents shall be true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date of each Borrowing or issuance of a Letter of Credit hereunder (except to the extent that such representations and warranties expressly relate to an earlier date) with the same effect as if made on and as of such date.
Representations and Warranties
Article 3
 
(c) . On the date of each Borrowing or issuance of a Letter of Credit hereunder, no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, nor shall any such event occur by reason of the making of the requested Loan or the issuance of the requested Letter of Credit.
No Event of Default
 
Each request for a Borrowing or issuance of a Letter of Credit hereunder shall be deemed to be a representation and warranty by the Borrower on the date of such Borrowing or issuance of a Letter of Credit hereunder as to the matters specified in paragraphs and of this .
(b)
(c)
Section 4.2
 
 
 
From the date hereof and for so long as the Revolving Commitments shall be in effect, any amount remains outstanding with respect to any Loan, any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding (or not cash collateralized in an amount equal to 102% of the then current LOC Obligations) or any Obligation remains unpaid or unsatisfied, each Credit Party agrees that, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, each of them will, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to:
 
Section 5.1 .
Financial Statements and Reports
 
Subject to the last paragraph of this , furnish or cause to be furnished to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and each of the Lenders:
Section 5.1
 
(a) As soon as available, but in any event within ninety (90) days after the end of each fiscal year of Ventas (commencing with fiscal year 2004) or such later date as may be contained in any SEC Filing Extension (but in no event later than 120 days after the end of such fiscal year), the audited consolidated balance sheet of Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries, in each case as at the end of, and the related statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows for, such fiscal year, and the corresponding figures as at the end of, and for, the preceding fiscal year, accompanied by an unqualified report and opinion of Ernst & Young LLP or another independent public accounting firm of recognized standing as shall be retained by Ventas and be satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (it being understood and agreed that the Administrative Agent shall not withhold its approval of any "Big Four" accounting firm and shall not unreasonably withhold its approval of any other accounting firm), which
 
report and opinion shall be prepared in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards relating to reporting and which report and opinion shall contain no material exceptions or qualifications except for qualifications relating to accounting changes (with which such independent public accountants concur) in response to FASB releases or other authoritative pronouncements; , , that such report and opinion may contain such exceptions and/or qualifications as are required to be taken as a result of (i) the exceptions and/or qualifications required to be taken by Kindred with respect to its financial statements, or (ii) the financial condition of Kindred;
provided
however
 
(b) As soon as available, but in any event within forty-five (45) days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each of its fiscal years, or such later date as may be contained in any SEC Filing Extension (but in no event later than 60 days after the end of such fiscal quarter), the unaudited, consolidated balance sheet of Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of, and the related unaudited consolidated statements of income and cash flows for, such quarter, and for the portion of the fiscal year through the end of such quarter, and the corresponding figures as at the end of such quarter, and for the corresponding period, in the preceding fiscal year, together with a certificate signed by an Authorized Officer of Ventas, on behalf of Ventas, to the effect that such financial statements, while not examined by independent public accountants, reflect, in the opinion of Ventas, all adjustments necessary to present fairly the financial position of Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries as at the end of the fiscal quarter and the results of operations for the quarter then ended in conformity with GAAP, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes;
 
(c) Simultaneously with the delivery of the statements referred to in paragraphs and of this , a Borrowing Base Certificate duly completed and executed by an Authorized Officer of Ventas.
(a)
(b)
Section 5.1
 
(d) Simultaneously with the delivery of the statements referred to in paragraphs and of this , a certificate of an Authorized Officer of Ventas, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (i) stating whether or not such Authorized Officer has knowledge, after due inquiry, of any condition or event which would constitute an Event of Default or Default and, if so, specifying each such condition or event and the nature thereof and what action any Credit Party is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto and (ii) demonstrating in reasonable detail compliance with the provisions of , , and hereof;
(a)
(b)
Section 5.1
Sections 6.1
6.6
6.7
6.8
 
(e) Promptly upon their becoming available, copies of all accounting audits prepared for, or submitted to, any of the Credit Parties by any outside professional firm or service, and any comment letter submitted by Ventas' accountants to management in connection with their annual audit;
 
(f) Promptly upon their becoming available, copies of all registration statements, proxy statements, notices and reports which Ventas, the Borrower or any other Credit Party shall file with any securities exchange or with the SEC or any successor agency;
 
(g) Promptly upon the mailing thereof to the shareholders of Ventas, copies of all financial statements, reports, proxy statements and other material written communications so mailed;
 
(h) As soon as possible and, in any event, within ten (10) days after a Credit Party or an ERISA Affiliate knows or has reason to know of the occurrence of any of the following, a certificate of an Authorized Officer of the Borrower setting forth the full details as to such occurrence and the action, if any, that such Credit Party or such ERISA Affiliate is required or proposes to take, together with any notices required or proposed to be given or filed by such Credit Party, the Plan Administrator or such ERISA Affiliate to or with the PBGC or any other Governmental Authority, or a Plan or Multiemployer Plan participant, and any notices received by such Credit Party or ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or any
 
other Governmental Authority that a Reportable Event has occurred with respect to any Plan which might constitute grounds for a termination of such Plan (except to the extent that the Borrower has previously delivered a certificate and notices (if any) concerning such event pursuant to the next clause hereof): that a contributing sponsor (as defined in Section 4001(a)(13) of ERISA) of a Plan subject to Title IV of ERISA is subject to the advance reporting requirement of PBGC Regulation Section 4043.61 (without regard to subparagraph (b)(1) thereof), and an event described in subsection .62, .63, .64, .65, .66, .67 or .68 of PBGC Regulation Section 4043 is reasonably expected to occur with respect to such Plan within the following 30 days; that an accumulated funding deficiency, within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, has been incurred or an application has been made for a waiver or modification of the minimum funding standard (including any required installment payments) or an extension of any amortization period under Section 412 of the Code or Section 303 or 304 of ERISA with respect to a Plan; that any contribution required to be made with respect to a Plan has not been timely made; that a Plan or Multiemployer Plan has been or may be terminated, reorganized, partitioned or declared insolvent under Title IV of ERISA; that proceedings may be or have been instituted to terminate or appoint a trustee to administer a Plan which is subject to Title IV of ERISA; that a proceeding has been instituted pursuant to Section 515 of ERISA to collect a delinquent contribution to a Multiemployer Plan; or that a Credit Party or an ERISA Affiliate will or may incur any liability (including any indirect, contingent, or secondary liability) to or on account of the termination of or withdrawal from a Plan or Multiemployer Plan under Section 4062, 4063, 4064, 4069, 4201, 4204, or 4212 of ERISA or with respect to a Plan under Section 401(a)(29), 4971 or 4975 of the Code or Section 409, 502(i) or 502(1) of ERISA;
 
(i) Promptly and in any event within five (5) Business Days of receipt of any notice or correspondence from a Governmental Authority suggesting a change in the status of Ventas as a REIT;
 
(j) Promptly and in any event within five (5) Business Days after receipt of any material notice or correspondence from any company or agent for any company providing insurance coverage with respect to any Mortgaged Property, which notice or correspondence relates to any material loss with respect to such Mortgaged Property, copies of such notice and/or correspondence;
 
(k) Without limiting any Credit Party's other obligations to give notice under the Fundamental Documents, within fifteen (15) days of the end of each calendar quarter, a schedule setting forth each sale or other disposition of any Collateral effected during such quarter, the date of each such sale or disposition and the sales price with respect to such Collateral sold or disposed of;
 
(l) As soon as practicable but in any event within five (5) Business Days after a Credit Party knows or has received a notice thereof, notice of any material default by the tenant under any Material Lease of the Mortgaged Properties or any Master Lease;
 
(m) With respect to each Mortgage, as soon as commercially reasonable after the recording of such Mortgage, a Title Policy dated as of the recordation date of such Mortgage;
 
(n) Simultaneously with the delivery of the statements referred to in paragraphs and of this , financial projections prepared by the controller or chief financial officer of Ventas for Ventas and its Consolidated Subsidiaries for the period of the succeeding four fiscal quarters; and
(a)
(b)
Section 5.1
 
(o) From time to time such additional information regarding the financial condition or business of any of the Credit Parties or any of their respective Subsidiaries (including without limitation any Special Purpose Subsidiary), any Mortgaged Property or the Collateral, as the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender acting through the Administrative Agent may reasonably request (without requiring the Borrower to incur unreasonable costs to gather such information) including, without
 
limitation, copies of management projections prepared at the reasonable request of the Administrative Agent; , , that a Lender may not request any such additional information unless reasonably related to the servicing of the Loans hereunder, the protection or enforcement any rights and/or remedies in connection with any Fundamental Document or any proceeding in connection with any Fundamental Document or any of the transactions contemplated thereby.
provided
however
 
Documents or information required to be delivered pursuant to , , , (to the extent any such documents are included in materials otherwise filed with the SEC) may be delivered electronically and if so delivered, shall be deemed to have been delivered on the date (i) on which the Borrower posts such documents, or provides a link thereto on the Borrower's website on the internet at the website address listed in ; or (ii) on which such documents are posted on the Borrower's behalf on an internet or intranet website, if any, to which each Lender and the Administrative Agent have access (whether a commercial, third-party website or whether sponsored by the Administrative Agent); that: (A) the Borrower shall deliver paper copies of such documents to the Administrative Agent or any Lender that requests the Borrower to deliver such paper copies until a written request to cease delivering paper copies is given by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and (B) the Borrower shall notify (which may be by facsimile or electronic mail) the Administrative Agent and each Lender of the posting of any such documents and provide to the Administrative Agent by electronic mail electronic versions (, soft copies) of such documents. Notwithstanding anything contained herein, in every instance the Borrower shall be required to provide paper copies of the certificates required by clauses and of to the Administrative Agent. Except for the certificates required by clauses and of , the Administrative Agent shall have no obligation to request the delivery or to maintain copies of the documents referred to above, and in any event shall have no responsibility to monitor compliance by the Borrower with any such request for delivery, and each Lender shall be solely responsible for requesting delivery to it or maintaining its copies of such documents.
Section 5.1(a)
5.1(b)
5.1(f)
5.1(g)
Section 12.1
provided
i.e.
(c)
(d)
Section 5.1
(c)
(d)
Section 5.1
 
The Credit Parties hereby acknowledge that the Administrative Agent will make available to the Lenders materials and/or information provided by or on behalf of the Credit Parties hereunder (collectively, the "") by posting the Credit Party Materials on IntraLinks or another similar electronic system (the "") and that certain of the Lenders may be "public-side" Lenders (, Lenders that do not wish to receive material non-public information with respect to the Credit Parties or their securities). The Credit Parties hereby agree that (1) all Credit Party Materials that do not contain material non-public information with respect to the Credit Parties shall be clearly and conspicuously marked by a Credit Party "PUBLIC" (which, at a minimum, shall mean that the word "PUBLIC" shall appear prominently on the first page thereof); (2) by marking the Credit Party Materials "PUBLIC", the Credit Parties shall be deemed to have authorized the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to treat such Credit Party Materials as either publicly available information or not material information (although it may be sensitive and proprietary) with respect to the Credit Parties or their securities for purposes of applicable United States federal and state securities laws; (3) all Credit Party Materials marked "PUBLIC" are permitted to be made available through a portion of the Platform designated as "Public." The Administrative Agent shall treat any Credit Party Materials that are not marked "PUBLIC" as being suitable only for posting on a portion of the Platform not marked as "Public". The Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank, the Swingline Lender and the Lenders shall take reasonable steps to preserve the confidentiality of all such non-public Credit Party Materials in accordance with the provisions of .
Credit Party Materials
Platform
i.e.
Section 12.17
 
Section 5.2 .
Existence; Compliance with Laws
 
(a) Except as otherwise expressly permitted by hereof or as set forth on , do or cause to be done all things necessary (i) to preserve, renew and keep in full force and
Section 6.4
Schedule 5.2
 
effect its existence, licenses, permits, franchises, certificates (including, without limitation, certificates of need), authorization, accreditations, easements, rights of way and other rights, consents and approvals the nonexistence of which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and (ii) to comply with all applicable statutes, ordinances, rules, regulations and orders of, and all applicable restrictions or requirements imposed by, any Governmental Authority (including, without limitation, Environmental Laws, all zoning and building codes and ERISA) or any other Requirements except (x) with respect to those matters set forth on hereto, (y) where the necessity of compliance therewith is contested in good faith by the appropriate proceedings provided that the applicable Credit Party or Subsidiary of a Credit Party shall have set aside on its books reasonable reserves (the presentation of which is segregated to the extent required by GAAP) with respect thereto if such reserves are required by GAAP and (z) where noncompliance is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Schedule 5.2
 
(b) Obtain or make all further authorizations, approvals, orders, consents, licenses, registration or filings from or with any Governmental Authority required for the performance by any Credit Party or Ventas (as the Borrower's general partner on behalf of the Borrower) of this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents to which it is a party, where the failure to do so is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 5.3 .
Maintenance of Properties
 
Subject to the terms hereof and force majeure, the restrictions on any such action contained in the lease for the applicable Mortgaged Property and the Borrower's ability to enforce the lease for the applicable Mortgaged Property in a commercially reasonable manner, keep the tangible Collateral and each Mortgaged Property in good repair, working order and condition (ordinary wear and tear excepted) and, from time to time, make all necessary and proper repairs, renewals, replacements, additions and improvements thereto.
 
Section 5.4 .
Notice of Material Events
 
(a) Promptly upon, but in any event within five (5) Business Days (subject to the proviso contained in clause below) after, an Authorized Officer of any Credit Party obtaining knowledge of (i) any (X) Default or (Y) Event of Default, (ii) any Material Adverse Effect, (iii) any action, event or condition which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, (iv) any change in the name or the jurisdiction of organization of any Credit Party, (v) any other event which would materially decrease the value of the Collateral or any Mortgaged Property, provided that notice of any such event shall be given within thirty (30) days after such event, (vi) any material amendment to any agreements that are part of the Collateral or relate to any Mortgaged Property, (vii) any Person taking any action to enforce remedies with respect to a claimed default or event or condition of the type referred to in paragraphs , or of , (viii) any strike, walkout, work stoppage or other material labor difficulty with respect to any Credit Party or Subsidiary of a Credit Party or (ix) any pending or contemplated condemnation proceeding affecting any Mortgaged Property which would result in Condemnation Proceeds of $2,000,000 or more, give written notice thereof to the Administrative Agent specifying the nature and period of existence of any such condition or event, or specifying the notice given or action taken by such Person and the nature of such claimed Event of Default or condition and what action any Credit Party has taken, is taking and proposes to take with respect thereto.
(v)
(g)
(h)
(i)
Article 7
 
(b) Promptly upon (i) but in any event (x) within five (5) days after, an Authorized Officer of any Credit Party obtains knowledge of the institution of any action, suit, proceeding, investigation or arbitration by any Governmental Authority or other Person against or affecting any Credit Party or any of its assets and (y) within ten (10) days after, an Authorized Officer of any Credit Party obtains knowledge of the threat of, any action, suit, proceeding, investigation or arbitration by any Governmental Authority
 
or other Person against or affecting any Credit Party or any of its assets (including in the case of clause or , without limitation, any Mortgaged Property but excluding any condemnation proceeding or any sale or disposition in lieu of condemnation with respect to any Mortgaged Property which would result in Condemnation Proceeds of less than $2,000,000) and (ii) any material development in any such action, suit, proceeding, investigation or arbitration (whether or not previously disclosed to the Administrative Agent), which, in the case of clause or above, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, give written notice thereof to the Administrative Agent and provide such other information as may be available to it to enable the Administrative Agent to evaluate such matters; and, in addition to the requirements set forth in this , such Credit Party upon request shall promptly give notice to the Administrative Agent of the status of any action, suit, proceeding, investigation or arbitration covered by a report delivered to the Administrative Agent pursuant to this and provide such other information as may be reasonably available to it to enable the Administrative Agent to evaluate such matters.
(x)
(y)
(i)
(ii)
subsection (b)
subsection (b)
 
Section 5.5 .
Insurance
 
(a) Keep its assets, or use reasonable efforts to cause its tenants under applicable leases to keep its Mortgaged Properties and Collateral, which are of an insurable character insured at all times with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, against such risks and in such amounts as are customary for companies of the same or similar size in the same or similar businesses, or as is otherwise permitted in the applicable leases. Except as otherwise permitted under the applicable lease, the Credit Parties shall cause all such insurance to: (i) contain a Lender's Loss Payable Endorsement in favor of the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties in all loss or damage insurance policies and have a severability of interest clause in all liability insurance policies, (ii) provide that no cancellation, material reduction in amount or material change in coverage thereof shall be effective until at least thirty (30) days after written notice to the Administrative Agent (on behalf of the Secured Parties) thereof, (iii) name the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) as loss payee for physical damage insurance with respect to property which constitutes Collateral or a Mortgaged Property, with the right, if an Event of Default has occurred and is then continuing, to adjust losses and claims with respect to such property, and as an additional insured for liability insurance (, that with respect to property to which a Lien permitted hereunder has been granted to another creditor, such other creditor may also be named as loss payee, with payment to be made as their interests may appear and as an additional insured, with the Administrative Agent), (iv) state that neither the Administrative Agent, any of the Lenders, nor any other Secured Party shall be responsible for premiums, commissions, club calls, assessments or advances, (v) contain a waiver of all rights of set-off, counterclaim, deduction or subrogation against the Administrative Agent and the other Secured Parties and (vi) be reasonably satisfactory in all other respects (including deductibles) to the Administrative Agent. Provided no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Administrative Agent shall make available for repair or restoration of the applicable Mortgaged Property and Collateral, all net proceeds of insurance policies maintained by the Credit Parties or any tenant under a Master Lease or any other Material Lease covering a Mortgaged Property or any net proceeds of a condemnation, which net proceeds shall be funded to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent upon receipt by the Administrative Agent of evidence that the Borrower is diligently pursuing such repair or restoration. In no event shall the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender have any obligation to fund any shortfalls, overruns or other costs, expenses or liabilities related to any such repair or restoration.
provided
 
(b) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, furnish to the Administrative Agent, an updated schedule describing all insurance maintained by the Credit Parties, which schedule shall set forth, for each insurance policy, the policy number, the type of coverage, the policy limits and deductibles, the insurer (and reinsurers, if applicable) and the expiration date.
 
(c) Furnish to the Administrative Agent, to the extent not previously delivered, original certificates of insurance for all insurance maintained by a Credit Party which certificates shall comply with the requirements of this set forth above and contain signatures of duly authorized representatives of the insurer, at all times prior to policy termination, cessation or cancellation.
Section 5.5
 
(d) Maintain or cause to be maintained such other insurance or self insurance as may be required by Applicable Law.
 
Section 5.6 .
Books and Records; Inspection
 
(a) Maintain or cause to be maintained at all times, in accordance with GAAP, true and complete books and records of its financial operations.
 
(b) Provide the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and their representatives (at the Borrower's expense) or any Lender and its representatives (at such Lender's expense) access to such books and records and to any of its properties or assets (subject to below and, in the case of access to its properties or assets, to any applicable restrictions contained in the leases for the Mortgaged Properties) upon reasonable notice and during regular business hours in order that the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender (as applicable) may make such audits and examinations and make abstracts from such books, accounts, records and other papers of a Credit Party or a Subsidiary of a Credit Party pertaining to the Collateral or any Mortgaged Property and upon notification to the Borrower, permit the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender (as applicable) or its representatives to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts with, and be advised as to the same by, officers and independent accountants, all as the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or such Lender (as applicable) may deem appropriate for the purpose of verifying any report delivered by any Credit Party to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and/or the Lenders pursuant to this Credit Agreement or for otherwise ascertaining compliance with this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document.
Section 12.17
 
Section 5.7 .
Third Party Audit Rights
 
On a quarterly basis notify the Administrative Agent of, and at all times allow the Administrative Agent access to the results of, all audits conducted by any Credit Party of any third party under any agreement in the Collateral, any lessee of any Mortgaged Property or of any Joint Venture. The Credit Parties will use commercially reasonable efforts to exercise their audit rights with respect to any such third parties, lessees and Joint Ventures upon the reasonable request of the Administrative Agent to the extent that the applicable Credit Party shall have the right to conduct such audits.
 
Section 5.8 .
Observance of Agreements
 
(a) Duly observe and perform all material terms and conditions of (i) any agreement relating to any Mortgaged Property or (ii) any other agreement, in either case the absence of which agreement is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect (subject in each case, to the right of the Credit Parties to lawfully assert a defense to performance or to lawfully contest any claims for breach under any such agreement), and diligently protect and enforce the rights of the Credit Parties and their Subsidiaries under all such agreements in a manner consistent with prudent business judgment and subject to the terms and conditions of such agreements.
 
(b) Promptly provide the Administrative Agent copies of any and all agreements amending, altering, modifying, waiving or supplementing in any material respect, any material agreement relating to any Mortgaged Property or any other agreement the absence of which is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 5.9 .
Taxes and Charges
 
Duly pay and discharge, or cause to be paid and discharged, before the same shall become in arrears (after giving effect to applicable extensions), all taxes, assessments, levies and other governmental charges, imposed upon any Credit Party or Subsidiary of a Credit Party or its properties, sales and activities, or any part thereof, or upon the income or profits therefrom, as well as all claims for labor, materials, or supplies which if unpaid might by law become a Lien upon any Collateral or any Mortgaged Property; , , that any tax, assessment, levy, governmental charge or claims for labor, material or supplies need not be paid if the validity or amount thereof shall currently be contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and if such Credit Party or Subsidiary of a Credit Party shall have set aside on its books reasonable reserves (the presentation of which is segregated to the extent required by GAAP) with respect thereto if such reserves are required by GAAP; and , , that such Credit Party or Subsidiary of a Credit Party will pay all such taxes, assessments, levies or other governmental charges and claims for labor, material or supplies forthwith prior to the foreclosure of any Lien which has attached as security therefor.
provided
however
provided
further
 
Section 5.10 .
Liens
 
Subject to the restrictions on any of the following actions contained in the lease for the applicable Mortgaged Property and the Borrower's ability to enforce the lease for the applicable Mortgaged Property in a commercially reasonable manner, (a) defend, or cause to be defended, the Collateral and the Mortgaged Properties against any and all Liens, claims and other impediments howsoever arising, other than Permitted Encumbrances, and (b) defend, or cause to be defended, the same against any attempted foreclosure.
 
Section 5.11 .
Further Assurances; Security Interests
 
(a) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, duly execute and deliver, or cause to be duly executed and delivered, at the cost and expense of the Credit Parties, such further instruments as may be necessary in the reasonable judgment of the Administrative Agent or its counsel to carry out the provisions and purposes of this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents.
 
(b) Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, promptly execute and deliver or cause to be executed and delivered, at the cost and expense of the Credit Parties, such further instruments as may be appropriate in the reasonable judgment of the Administrative Agent or its counsel, to provide the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties a first perfected Lien in the Collateral and all the Mortgaged Properties, and any and all documents (including, without limitation, an amendment or supplementation of any financing statement, a continuation statement or other statement) for filing under the provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code and the rules and regulations thereunder, or any other Applicable Law of the United States or any other jurisdiction which the Administrative Agent may deem reasonably necessary or advisable, and perform or cause to be performed such other ministerial acts which are reasonably necessary or advisable, from time to time, in order to grant and maintain in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties the security interest in the Collateral and the Mortgaged Properties contemplated hereunder and under the other Fundamental Documents, subject only to Permitted Encumbrances.
 
(c) Promptly undertake to deliver or cause to be delivered to the Administrative Agent, the Lenders or the other Secured Parties (as applicable) from time to time such other documentation, consents, authorizations and approvals in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, as the Administrative Agent or its counsel shall deem reasonably necessary or
 
advisable to perfect or maintain the Liens of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties.
 
(d) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing provisions of this , use commercially reasonable efforts to correct as soon as practicable, matters with respect to title concerning the properties set forth on hereto.
Section 5.11
Schedule 3.10
 
Section 5.12 .
Environmental Laws
 
(a) Promptly notify the Administrative Agent upon any Credit Party becoming aware of any violation or potential violation or non-compliance with, or liability or potential liability under, any Environmental Laws which, when taken together with all other pending violations of, or liability under, Environmental Laws is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and promptly furnish to the Administrative Agent all notices of any nature which any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party may receive from any Governmental Authority or other Person with respect to any violation, or potential violation or non-compliance with, or liability or potential liability under, any Environmental Laws which, in any case or when taken together with all such other notices, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(b) Subject to any restrictions contained in applicable lease documents to which a Credit Party or a Subsidiary of a Credit Party is a party, comply with and use reasonable efforts to ensure compliance by all tenants and subtenants with all Environmental Laws, and obtain and comply in all respects with and maintain and use reasonable efforts to ensure that all tenants and subtenants obtain and comply in all respects with and maintain any and all licenses, approvals, registrations or permits required by Environmental Laws, except where failure to do so is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(c) Subject to any restrictions contained in applicable lease documents to which a Credit Party or a Subsidiary of a Credit Party is a party, conduct and complete all investigations, studies, sampling and testing, and all remedial, removal and other actions required under all Environmental Laws and promptly comply in all material respects with all lawful orders and directives of all Governmental Authorities, except where failure to do so would not have a Material Adverse Effect. Any order or directive whose lawfulness is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings shall be considered a lawful order or directive when such proceedings, including any judicial review of such proceedings, have been finally concluded by the issuance of a final non-appealable order; , , that the appropriate Credit Party shall have set aside on its books reasonable reserves (the presentation of which is segregated to the extent required by GAAP) with respect thereto, to the extent required by GAAP.
provided
however
 
(d) Indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Administrative Agent, BAS, the Issuing Bank, the Lenders, and the Hedging Banks, and their respective officers, directors, shareholders, employees, agents, representatives, successors and assigns from and against any liability, fine, penalty, loss, damage, suit, settlement, action, expense and cost (including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees (excluding the allocated cost of internal counsel) and environmental consultant fees), arising out of or relating to: (A) the presence or Release of any Hazardous Materials at, to, on, under, from, or about any Premises or any real property currently or formerly owned, leased or operated by any Special Purpose Subsidiary; (B) any violation of any Environmental Law or Environmental Permit by any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party or any Special Purpose Subsidiary (C) the transportation or the arrangement for the transportation, handling, treatment, or disposal of any Hazardous Materials to any location other than any Premises by or on behalf of any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party or to any location other than real property owned, leased or operated by a Special Purpose Subsidiary by
 
or on behalf of any Special Purpose Subsidiary or any Subsidiary thereof; (D) any Environmental Claim relating to any Premises or any activities conducted at any Premises or any real property currently or formerly owned, leased or operated by any Special Purpose Subsidiary; and (E) any breach of any environmental representation or covenant in this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document (but, in all events, excluding any such liability, fine, penalty, loss, damage, suit, settlement, action, expense or cost of an indemnified party to the extent primarily caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such indemnified party). The obligations of the Borrower under this shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement and the Commitments hereunder, the payment of the Obligations and the expiration, termination and/or cancellation of the Letters of Credit hereunder indefinitely; however that the foregoing indemnity shall not apply to any Environmental Claim resulting solely from a Hazardous Material that is first introduced to and released upon any Mortgaged Property after the date upon which the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any other Secured Party indemnified pursuant to this acquires ownership and control of such Mortgaged Property.
Section 5.12(d)
provided
Section 5.12
 
Section 5.13 .
Subsidiaries
 
(a) Deliver to the Administrative Agent in connection with the granting of a Mortgage on any Eligible Property by a Subsidiary of a Credit Party that is not already a Guarantor hereunder, an Instrument of Assumption and Joinder executed by such Subsidiary, appropriate UCC-1 financing statements, Mortgages and/or other security documents, organizational documents and written opinions of counsel, all as may be reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent or its counsel and all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
 
(b) In the event that any Subsidiary of the Borrower becomes a Guarantor hereunder after the Closing Date, deliver to the Administrative Agent a Contribution Agreement duly executed by all the Credit Parties then in existence.
 
Section 5.14 .
Lease Agreements
 
From time to time (i) furnish to the Administrative Agent such information and reports regarding Master Lease No. 1 and any other Material Lease encumbering some or all of the Mortgaged Properties as the Administrative Agent may reasonably request, and (ii) upon the occurrence and continuation of an Event of Default and the reasonable request of the Administrative Agent, make such demands and requests for information, reports or action to the other parties to a lease agreement to which a Credit Party or any Subsidiary thereof is a party, as the Credit Party or Subsidiary is entitled to make under each such lease agreement.
 
Section 5.15 .
Use of Proceeds of Revolving Loans
 
Use the proceeds of Revolving Loans for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, working capital purposes, for purposes of funding acquisitions and dispositions, for purposes of refinancing existing indebtedness, and other lawful and valid corporate purposes, which are not otherwise expressly prohibited by the terms of this Credit Agreement.
 
Section 5.16 .
Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreements, etc
 
With respect to any Mortgaged Properties that have been added or will be added to the Borrowing Base after the Closing Date pursuant to , use all commercially reasonable efforts to deliver to the Administrative Agent, as soon as reasonably practicable following the Administrative Agent's written request therefor, executed and acknowledged subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreements, substantially identical in all material respects to the subordination, non-disturbance and attornment
Section 2.19
 
agreements delivered to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the Closing Date or otherwise in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, with respect to each Material Lease encumbering such additional or substituted Real Property Assets, if any; , , that commercially reasonable efforts shall not be construed as requiring payment of any consent fee or other consideration for any third party's execution and delivery of any such agreement.
provided
however
 
Section 5.17 .
Valuations
 
Conduct, or cause to be conducted, at the Borrower's expense, and delivered to the Administrative Agent an additional Valuation of any Mortgaged Property as requested by the Administrative Agent; that the Administrative Agent may request such additional Valuation (a) so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, not more than once during the term of this Credit Agreement and (b) upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, annually. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Master Lease or other Material Lease that affects any Mortgaged Property is amended or modified in any material respect, the Administrative Agent may require, in its reasonable discretion and at the Borrower's expense, a new Valuation of such Mortgaged Property. In addition, the Borrower may from time to time, at its sole cost and expense, obtain an updated Valuation of any Mortgaged Property in its discretion.
provided
 
 
 
From the date hereof and for so long as the Revolving Commitments shall be in effect, any amount remains outstanding with respect to any Loan, any Letter of Credit shall remain outstanding (or not cash collateralized in an amount equal to 102% of the then current LOC Obligations) or any Obligation remains unpaid or unsatisfied, each Credit Party agrees that, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing, it will not and will not allow any of its Subsidiaries to:
 
Section 6.1 .
Limitations on Debt
 
(a) Incur any additional Debt (other than Permitted Debt) if, immediately after giving effect to the incurrence of such additional Debt and the application of the proceeds thereof, the aggregate principal amount of all of Ventas' and its Subsidiaries' outstanding Debt on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP would be greater than 60% of the sum of, without duplication:
 
(i) the Total Assets of Ventas and its Subsidiaries as of the end of the calendar quarter covered by Ventas' annual report on Form 10-K or quarterly report on Form 10-Q, as the case may be, most recently filed with the SEC (or, if such filing is not permitted under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the calendar quarter covered by Ventas' most recent report filed with the Bond Trustees) prior to the incurrence of such additional Debt (the ""); and
Measurement Date
 
(ii) the purchase price of any Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables acquired and the amount of any securities offering proceeds received (to the extent that such proceeds were not used to acquire Real Estate Assets or mortgages receivable or used to reduce Debt), by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis since the Measurement Date (such sum of clauses and being collectively referred to as "").
(i)
(ii)
Adjusted Total Assets
 
(b) Incur any Secured Debt (other than Permitted Debt) if, immediately after giving effect to the incurrence of such additional Secured Debt and the application of the proceeds thereof, the aggregate principal amount of all of Ventas' and its Subsidiaries' outstanding Secured Debt on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP is greater than 40% of the Adjusted Total Assets.
 
(c) Incur any additional Debt (other than the Permitted Debt) if, immediately after giving effect to the incurrence of such additional Debt and the application of the proceeds thereof, Ventas and its Subsidiaries will maintain Total Unencumbered Assets as of the end of each fiscal quarter of less than 150% of the aggregate outstanding principal balance of the Unsecured Debt as of the end of each fiscal quarter, all calculated on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
 
(d) Ventas, the Borrower and each of their Subsidiaries may, from time to time, incur any Debt, except as may be expressly prohibited by this Credit Agreement.
 
Section 6.2 .
Limitations on Liens
 
Incur, create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any Mortgaged Property or Collateral, except:
 
(a) existing Liens listed on hereto;
Schedule 6.2
 
(b) Liens for taxes, assessments or other governmental charges or levies due and payable, (i) the validity or amount of which is currently being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or (ii) as to which the Borrower is subject to certain enforcement restrictions contained in the applicable leases and subleases and is exercising its applicable lease and sublease rights in a commercially reasonable and diligent manner and, in each case, for which reserves have been set aside on the books of the applicable Credit Party or Subsidiary and as to which foreclosure and other enforcement proceedings shall not have been commenced (unless fully bonded or otherwise effectively stayed), in each case pursuant to and in accordance with the terms of hereof;
Section 5.9
 
(c) Liens arising out of attachments, judgments or awards (i) as to which an appeal or other appropriate proceedings for contest or review are timely commenced (and as to which foreclosure and other enforcement proceedings shall not have been commenced (unless fully bonded or otherwise effectively stayed)) or (ii) as to which the Borrower is subject to certain enforcement restrictions contained in the applicable leases and subleases and is exercising its applicable lease and sublease rights in a commercially reasonable and diligent manner (and as to which foreclosure and other enforcement proceedings shall not have been commenced (unless fully bonded or otherwise effectively stayed)) and, in each case, as to which appropriate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP to the extent any such reserves are required by GAAP;
 
(d) deposits under worker's compensation, unemployment insurance and social security and similar laws or to secure statutory obligations or surety, appeal, performance, completion or other similar bonds, to secure performance as lessee under leases of real or personal property or to secure performance of tenders, bids, contracts (other than for the repayment of Indebtedness) and other obligations of a like nature, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(e) Liens customarily granted or incurred in the ordinary course of business with regard to services rendered by carriers, warehouses, suppliers of materials and equipment, mechanics and repairmen and other Liens imposed by Applicable Law which Liens (i) are contemplated by of the Master Leases (or a successor provision) or any other comparable provision in any other lease with respect to a Mortgaged Property or (ii) do not in the aggregate secure obligations in excess of $3,000,000 at any time, and in each case, do not secure obligations which are due and payable (unless such
Section 11.1
 
obligations are being contested in good faith and with respect to which appropriate reserves have been established in accordance with GAAP to the extent any such reserves are required by GAAP);
 
(f) the Liens of the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) under this Credit Agreement, the other Fundamental Documents and any other document contemplated hereby or thereby;
 
(g) easements (including, without limitation, reciprocal easement agreements and utility agreements), rights of way, Requirements, restrictions (including, without limitation, zoning restrictions), covenants, consents, reservations, encroachments, variations and other similar restrictions, charges, encumbrances (whether or not recorded) (but specifically excluding rights of first refusal, options and other contractual rights to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of any Mortgaged Property or any interest therein) on any Mortgaged Property which, in the aggregate, (i) do not materially detract from the value of the applicable Mortgaged Property subject thereto, (ii) do not materially interfere with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Credit Parties, any Subsidiary of a Credit Party or any lessee under a lease, or (iii) do not materially impair the use of the applicable Mortgaged Property by any Credit Party, any Subsidiary of a Credit Party or any lessee under a lease;
 
(h) Liens arising by virtue of any statutory or common law provision relating to banker's liens, rights of set off or similar rights with respect to deposit accounts;
 
(i) Rights of first refusal, options or other contractual rights to sell, assign or otherwise dispose of any Mortgaged Property or interest therein which right of first refusal, option or contractual right (i) is described on hereto, (ii) has been consented to in writing by the Administrative Agent in the exercise of its reasonable discretion, (iii) is in connection with an asset sale permitted by hereof, or (iv) has been granted after the Closing Date and which when taken with all other rights of first refusal, options and other contractual rights permitted by this clause , do not, in any fiscal year, affect Mortgaged Properties having an aggregate fair market value exceeding $30,000,000; and
Schedule 6.2
Section 6.4
(iv)
 
(j) Liens set forth on the Title Policies and accepted by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders as of the Closing Date.
 
Section 6.3 .
Restricted Payments
 
Directly or indirectly:
 
(a) declare or pay any dividend or make any other payment or distribution on account of Ventas' or any of its Subsidiaries' Equity Interests (including, without limitation, any payment in connection with any merger or consolidation involving Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries) or to the direct or indirect holders of Ventas' or any of its Subsidiaries' Equity Interests in their capacity as such (other than dividends or distributions payable (i) in Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of Ventas or (ii) to Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries);
 
(b) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value (including, without limitation, in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Borrower) any Equity Interests of (i) the Borrower or any direct or indirect parent of the Borrower or (ii) any Subsidiary of Ventas, including a Permitted Joint Venture (in either case other than Equity Interests owned by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries);
 
(c) make any payment on or with respect to, purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire for value any Subordinated Debt, except a payment of interest or principal at the stated maturity thereof; or
 
(d) make any Restricted Investment (all such payments and other actions set forth in these clauses through being collectively referred to as ""),
(a)
(d)
Restricted Payments
 
, at the time of and after giving effect to such Restricted Payment:
unless
 
(1) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing;
 
(2) Ventas and its Subsidiaries could incur at least $1.00 of additional Debt (other than Permitted Debt) under the terms of this Credit Agreement;
 
(3) the aggregate sum of all Restricted Payments made after the 2002 Closing Date, excluding Restricted Payments made pursuant to the following paragraph shall not exceed the sum of:
 
(A) 95% of the aggregate cumulative Funds from Operations accrued on a cumulative basis from April 1, 2002;
 
(B) the aggregate proceeds or values received after the 2002 Closing Date from the issuance or sale of Ventas' or the Borrower's Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock and Equity Interests sold to a Subsidiary of Ventas), net of underwriting discounts, commissions, legal fees and similar offering expenses;
 
(C) any dividends or other distributions received by Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries after the 2002 Closing Date from a Subsidiary that is not a Guarantor, to the extent that such dividends were not otherwise included in Earnings from Operations of Ventas for such period; and
 
(D) to the extent that any Special Purpose Subsidiary of Ventas is re-designated as not a Special Purpose Subsidiary after the 2002 Closing Date, the lesser of (i) the Fair Market Value of Ventas' Subsidiary Investment in such Special Purpose Subsidiary as of the date of such redesignation or (ii) such Fair Market Value as of the date on which such Special Purpose Subsidiary was originally designated as a Special Purpose Subsidiary.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the limitations on Restricted Payments described above shall not apply to the following:
 
(I) any distribution or other action which is necessary to maintain Ventas' status as a REIT under the Code, if the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Debt of Ventas and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP is less than 60% of Adjusted Total Assets;
 
(II) any distribution payable in Ventas' Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock);
 
(III) so long as the Borrower is a partnership and no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, distributions to partners of the Borrower in an amount, with respect to any period after April 1, 2002not to exceed the Tax Amount for such period;
,
 
(IV) the redemption, repurchase or other acquisition or retirement of any Equity Interests in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of a substantially concurrent issue and sale of, Capital Stock to any Person (other than to a Subsidiary of Ventas); , that such net cash proceeds are excluded from clause ( of the foregoing paragraph of this ;
provided
however
3)(B)
Section 6.3
 
(V) any redemption, repurchase or other acquisition or retirement of Subordinated Debt in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of (A) a substantially concurrent issue and sale of, Capital Stock to any Person (other than to a Subsidiary of Ventas); , that any such net cash proceeds are excluded from clause of the foregoing paragraph of this and are not used under clause of this paragraph of this or (B) Permitted Refinancing Debt;
provided
however
(3)(B)
Section 6.3
(IV)
Section 6.3
 
(VI) repurchases of Capital Stock deemed to occur upon the exercise of stock options if such Capital Stock represents a portion of the exercise price thereof and repurchases of Capital Stock deemed to occur upon the withholding of a portion of the Capital Stock granted or awarded to an employee to pay for the taxes payable by such employee upon such grant or award;
 
(VII) pro rata dividends and other distributions on the Capital Stock of any Subsidiary of Ventas by such Subsidiary to a Person other than Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries;
 
(VIII) the redemption, repurchase or other acquisition or retirement of any Capital Stock of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries from any director, officer or employee of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries, or from such person's estate, (A) pursuant to any agreement with such director, officer or employee or (B) upon the death or termination of directorship or employment of such person, in an aggregate amount under this clause not to exceed $1.5 million in any twelve-month period;
(VIII)
 
(IX) the forgiveness of loans to current or former officers or directors of Ventas in an aggregate principal amount since the Closing Date of up to $10 million; and
 
(X) other Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $75 million from the Closing Date.
 
Also, Ventas and its Subsidiaries will not be prohibited from making any Restricted Payment within 60 days of the declaration thereof if at the date of declaration such Restricted Payment would have otherwise complied with the provisions hereof.
 
Section 6.4 .
Merger, Sale of Assets, etc
 
Whether in one transaction or a series of transactions, wind up, liquidate or dissolve its affairs, or enter into any transaction of merger or consolidation in which a Credit Party is not the surviving entity (and, if Ventas is party thereto, in which Ventas is not the surviving entity), or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the Capital Stock or assets of any Credit Party (other than to another Credit Party) without the prior approval of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, provided that no such approval shall be required in connection with any such transaction if all Loans and other Obligations
 
shall be paid and satisfied in full and the Commitments terminated contemporaneously with the closing of such transaction.
 
Section 6.5 .
Places of Business; Change of Name
 
Change the location of its chief executive office or principal place of business or any of the locations where it keeps any portion of the Collateral or its books and records with respect to the Collateral, change its name or change its jurisdiction of incorporation or organization, without in each case (i) giving the Administrative Agent thirty (30) days prior written notice of such change and (ii) filing any additional Uniform Commercial Code financing statements, and such other documents reasonably requested by the Administrative Agent to maintain perfection of the security interest of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties in the Collateral and in each Mortgaged Property.
 
Section 6.6 .
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
As of the end of each fiscal quarter of Ventas, the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall be less than or equal to 60%.
 
Section 6.7 .
Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio
 
As of the end of each fiscal quarter of Ventas, the Consolidated Fixed Charge Coverage Ratio shall be greater than or equal to 1.75:1.0.
 
Section 6.8 .
Consolidated Adjusted Net Worth
 
As of the end of each fiscal quarter of Ventas, Consolidated Adjusted Net Worth shall be greater than or equal to the sum of (i) $400,000,000 (ii) eighty-five percent (85%) of the Net Cash Proceeds from Equity Transactions occurring after the 2002 Closing Date.
plus
 
Section 6.9 .
Transactions with Affiliates
 
Make any payment to, or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of their properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into or make or amend any transaction, contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate or 10% Stockholder (each, an ""), unless the Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are no less favorable to Ventas or the relevant Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by Ventas or such Subsidiary with an unrelated Person; , that for an Affiliate Transaction with an aggregate value of $10 million or more, at Ventas' option, either:
Affiliate Transaction
provided
however
 
(i) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of Ventas who have no conflicting financial interest in such transaction shall determine in good faith that such Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are not materially less favorable than those that might reasonably have been obtained in a comparable transaction at such time on an arm's-length basis from a Person that is not an Affiliate or 10% Stockholder of Ventas; or
 
(ii) the Board of Directors of Ventas shall obtain an opinion from a nationally recognized investment banking appraisal or accounting firm that such Affiliate Transaction is fair to Ventas or the applicable Subsidiary from a financial point of view.
 
The following items will not be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions and, therefore, will not be subject to the provisions of the prior paragraph:
 
(A) directors' fees, indemnification and similar arrangements, consulting fees, employee salaries, bonuses or employment agreements, compensation or employee benefit arrangements and incentive arrangements with, and loans and advances to, any officer, director or employee in the ordinary course of business;
 
(B) performance of all agreements in existence on the Closing Date and any modification thereto or any transaction contemplated thereby in any replacement agreement therefor so long as such modification or replacement is not materially more disadvantageous to Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries than the original agreement in effect on the Closing Date;
 
(C) customary transactions in connection with a Qualified CMBS Transaction;
 
(D) transactions between or among Ventas, the Borrower and/or Ventas' other Subsidiaries (other than any Permitted Joint Venture);
 
(E) transactions with a Person (other than a Permitted Joint Venture and its Subsidiaries) that is an Affiliate of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries solely because Ventas or one of its Subsidiaries owns an Equity Interest in, or controls, such Person;
 
(F) sales of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) to Affiliates of Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries; or
 
(G) Restricted Payments that are not otherwise prohibited hereunder.
 
Section 6.10 .
Business Activities
 
(a) Engage in any business activities other than activities (including Mortgage Investments) related to properties or businesses described under clause of the definition of "Eligible Property"; in each case, subject to the various limitations contained in this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents.
(a)
 
(b) In the case of Ventas, (i) carry on its business operations other than primarily through the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures therewith or (ii) cease to be qualified to be taxed as a REIT under the Code.
 
Section 6.11 .
Changes to Material Agreements
 
(a) . Without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld, terminate or replace:
Terminations or Replacements
 
(i) Master Lease No. 1 or any other Material Lease of a Mortgaged Property (other than in connection with a sale of one or more Mortgaged Properties pursuant to and in accordance with , the release of one or more Mortgaged Properties pursuant to, and in accordance with, , or a refinancing of a portion of the Indebtedness and/or other Obligations hereunder permitted by hereof); and
Section 6.4
Section 2.19
Section 6.1
 
(ii) If such termination or replacement would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, any other Material Lease.
 
(b) . Without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld (it being hereby acknowledged and agreed that no such consent shall be required with respect to any amendment, waiver, supplement or other modification to any Material Lease if such amendment, waiver, supplement or modification (x) does not relate to any Mortgaged Property, (y) is made for the purpose of adding or removing one or more properties that are not Mortgaged Properties or removing a Mortgaged Property that is being released pursuant to, and in accordance with, or (z) is made in connection with the exercise of any option or other right under the applicable Material Lease), consent to any material and adverse amendment, waiver, supplement or other modification of:
Amendments or Modifications
Section 2.19
 
(i) Any of the economic terms of Master Lease No. 1 or any other Material Lease of a Mortgaged Property (including, without limitation, (i) any provision for or relating to rent, fees or charges payable thereunder, (ii) any escalation provision, (iii) the time for payment of any amount thereunder, (iv) the term thereof, (v) any assignment or subletting provision thereunder, (vi) the triple net provisions thereunder, or (vii) any personal property buy-back or license transfer provision thereunder), where the changes to be made to such lease pursuant to such amendment, waiver, supplement or other modification (which alone or taken with all other amendments, waivers, supplements or other modifications since the Closing Date or proposed amendments, waivers, supplements or other modifications) could materially and adversely affect the Credit Parties' ability to repay the Obligations as and when due; and
 
(ii) If such amendment or modification would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, any of the economic terms of any other Material Lease.
 
(c) . Without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld provided that the proposed assignee or sublessee meets the criteria set forth in or , as applicable (or other applicable provision with respect to such assignment) of such lease), if the consent of a Credit Party or a Subsidiary of a Credit Party is required thereunder, consent to:
Assignments or Subleases
Section 22.6(b)
Section 25.1.2
 
(i) Any (A) assignment of Master Lease No. 1 or any other Material Lease of a Mortgaged Property (whether in connection with a foreclosure of a leasehold mortgage, assignment or transfer in lieu thereof, or an assignment by the tenant thereunder, including as a result of a change of control or otherwise), or (B) subletting of any portion of any Mortgaged Property subject to such lease; and
 
(ii) If such assignment would be reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, any assignment of any other Material Lease (whether in connection with a foreclosure of a leasehold mortgage, assignment or transfer in lieu thereof, or an assignment by the tenant thereunder, including as a result of a change of control or otherwise).
 
Section 6.12 .
Hazardous Materials
 
Subject to any restrictions contained in the applicable lease documents to which a Credit Party or a Subsidiary of a Credit Party is a party, (a) cause or permit any of its properties or assets to be used to generate, manufacture, refine, transport, treat, store, handle, dispose, transfer, produce or process Hazardous Materials, except in compliance with all applicable Environmental Laws; nor (b) release, discharge, dispose of or permit or suffer any release or disposal as a result of any intentional act or omission on its part of Hazardous Materials onto any such property or asset in violation of any
 
Environmental Law or in a manner that could result in liability under any Environmental Law, except in the case of (a) and (b) as are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 6.13 .
Use of Proceeds of Loans
 
(a) Use the proceeds of Revolving Loans hereunder other than for the purposes set forth in hereof.
Section 5.15
 
(b) Use, directly or indirectly, the proceeds of any Loan hereunder for the purpose (whether immediate, incidental or ultimate) of buying or carrying any Margin Stock.
 
Section 6.14 .
Fiscal Year; Fiscal Quarter
 
Change its fiscal year or any of its fiscal quarters without the consent of the Required Lenders, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
 
Section 6.15 .
Development Activities
 
Engage in any development activities except for development in connection with repositioning or restoration following a casualty of existing improvements to the extent not otherwise prohibited by the terms of this Credit Agreement, or except development involving investments by any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party that (in the aggregate at any one time) do not exceed ten percent (10%) of Consolidated Gross Asset Value.
 
 
 
In the case of the happening and during the continuance of any of the following events (each, an ""):
Event of Default
 
(a) any representation, warranty, certification or statement made by a Credit Party in this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document to which it is a party or in any statement or representation made by or on behalf of any Credit Party in any report, financial statement, certificate or other document furnished to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender pursuant to this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document, shall prove to have been false or misleading in any material respect when made or delivered;
 
(b) default shall be made in the payment of principal of any of the Loans as and when due and payable, whether at the due date thereof, by reason of maturity, mandatory prepayment, acceleration or otherwise;
 
(c) default shall be made in the payment of interest on the Loans, the Facility Fees, the Letter of Credit Fees, the Issuing Bank Fees or other amounts payable to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or a Lender under this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document, with respect to any Letter of Credit or under the Fee Letter, when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or by acceleration thereof or otherwise and such default shall continue unremedied for three (3) Business Days;
 
(d) default shall be made by any Credit Party in the due observance or performance of any covenant, condition or agreement contained in , , or of this Credit Agreement, and such default shall continue unremedied for five (5) Business Days;
Section 5.4(a)(i)(Y)
Section 5.4(a)(ii)
Article 6
 
(e) default shall be made by any Credit Party in the due observance or performance of any other covenant, condition or agreement to be observed or performed pursuant to the terms of this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document (other than those covered by paragraphs , , or of this ), and such default shall continue unremedied for thirty (30) days after a Credit Party receives notice thereof from the Administrative Agent;
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Article 7
 
(f) default shall be made by any Credit Party with respect to any payment, when due, of any Material Indebtedness (including, without limitation, Material Indebtedness in connection with the High Yield Loan Agreement and the High Yield Bonds, but excluding any and all non-recourse Indebtedness under a Qualified CMBS Transaction), if the effect of such default is to accelerate the maturity of such Material Indebtedness or to permit (with or without any further requirement of notice, lapse of time or any action) the holder or holders thereof or any trustee or agent for such holders to accelerate the maturity of such Material Indebtedness, and such default shall not be remedied, cured, waived or consented to within the period of grace with respect thereto; or any other circumstance arises or event occurs (other than the mere passage of time) by reason of which any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party (as applicable) is required to repurchase or offer to the holders of Material Indebtedness of any such Person, the opportunity to have repurchased, any such Material Indebtedness in full; or any such Material Indebtedness shall become or be declared to be due and payable in full prior to its stated maturity;
 
(g) any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party shall generally not pay its debts as they become due or shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party shall commence any case, proceeding or other action seeking to have an order for relief entered on its behalf as a debtor or to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, liquidation, dissolution or composition of it or its debts under any Debtor Relief Law or seeking appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its property or shall file an answer or other pleading in any such case, proceeding or other action admitting the material allegations of any petition, complaint or similar pleading filed against it or consenting to the relief sought therein; or any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party shall take any action to authorize any of the foregoing;
 
(h) any involuntary case, proceeding or other action against any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party which Subsidiary owns any Mortgaged Property or Collateral, shall be commenced seeking to have an order for relief entered against it as debtor or to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, liquidation, dissolution or composition of it or its debts under any Debtor Relief Law, or seeking appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for it or for all or any substantial part of its property, and such case, proceeding or other action (i) results in the entry of any order for relief against it or (ii) shall remain undismissed for a period of sixty (60) days;
 
(i) final, non-appealable judgment(s) for the payment of money in excess of $20,000,000 in the aggregate, if recourse in nature, or $50,000,000 in the aggregate, if non-recourse in nature (excluding (i) a judgment as to which, and only to the extent, a reputable insurance company has acknowledged coverage of such claim in writing or (ii) a judgment as to which the Borrower has been indemnified such indemnity remains in full force and effect and has not been cancelled or terminated and further excluding any non-recourse Indebtedness under a Qualified CMBS Transaction) shall be rendered against any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of a Credit Party and either (A) within thirty (30) days from
provided
 
the entry of such judgment, shall not have been discharged or stayed pending appeal, or shall not have been discharged within thirty (30) days from the entry of a final order of affirmance on appeal or (B) enforcement proceedings shall be commenced by any creditor on any such judgment;
 
(j) (A) (i) any Credit Party or ERISA Affiliate shall fail to make any contributions required to be made to a Plan subject to Title IV of ERISA or a Multiemployer Plan, (ii) any accumulated funding deficiency (within the meaning of Section 4971(c) of the Code) shall exist with respect to any Plan (whether or not waived), (iii) the present value of all benefits under all Plans subject to Title IV of ERISA determined on a plan termination basis (based on those actuarial assumptions prescribed by the PBGC for purposes of Section 4044 of ERISA) exceeds, in the aggregate, as of the last annual valuation date applicable thereto, the fair market value of the assets of such Plans allocable to such benefits, (iv) any Credit Party or ERISA Affiliate shall have been notified by the sponsor of a Multiemployer Plan that it has incurred withdrawal liability to such Multiemployer Plan, or that a Multiemployer Plan is in reorganization or is being terminated, (v) a Reportable Event with respect to a Plan shall have occurred, (vi) any Credit Party or ERISA Affiliate shall withdraw from a Plan during a plan year in which it was a substantial employer (within the meaning of Section 4001(a)(2) or 4062(e) of ERISA), (vii) the termination of a Plan, or the filing of a notice of intent to terminate a Plan under Section 4041(c) of ERISA, (viii) the institution of proceedings to terminate, or the appointment of a trustee with respect to, a Plan by the PBGC, (ix) any other event or condition shall occur which could constitute grounds under Section 4042(a) of ERISA for the termination of, or the appointment of a trustee to administer, any Plan, or the imposition of a Lien pursuant to Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA as to any Credit Party or ERISA Affiliate, and (B) any such event, individually or in the aggregate, does have or is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(k) any Credit Party or any Subsidiary of any Credit Party is liable for a payment (whether as a penalty, fine, remediation cost, investigation cost or otherwise) under any Environmental Law which does have or is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect;
 
(l) (i) this Credit Agreement, any Mortgage, or any other Fundamental Document shall, for any reason, not be or shall cease to be in full force and effect or shall be declared null and void or any of the Fundamental Documents shall not give or shall cease to give the Administrative Agent the Liens, rights, powers and privileges purported to be created thereby in favor of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties, superior to and prior to the rights of all third Persons and subject to no other Liens (other than Permitted Encumbrances), or (ii) the validity or enforceability of the Liens granted, to be granted, or purported to be granted, by any of the Fundamental Documents shall be contested by any Credit Party or any of their respective Affiliates; , that no such defect pursuant to clause above with respect to a Lien granted or purported to be granted by any of the Fundamental Documents shall give rise to an Event of Default under this paragraph unless such defect shall affect Collateral or Mortgaged Properties that are or should be subject to a Lien in favor of the Administrative Agent having an aggregate value in excess of $50,000,000;
provided
(i)
(l)
 
(m) a Change in Control shall occur and shall not have been consented to by the Required Lenders;
 
(n) at any time, for any reason, any Credit Party shall repudiate, or seek to repudiate, any of its Obligations under any Fundamental Document to which it is a party;
 
then, in every such event and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and if directed by the Required Lenders shall, take any or all of the following actions, at the same or different times: (x) terminate forthwith the Revolving Commitments, the Tranche B Term Loan Commitments and/or (y) declare the principal of and the interest on the Loans and the notes
 
evidencing the Loans hereunder and all other amounts payable hereunder or thereunder to be forthwith due and payable, whereupon the same shall become and be forthwith due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest, notice of acceleration or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived, anything in this Credit Agreement or in any note evidencing any Loan hereunder to the contrary notwithstanding and/or (z) require the Borrower to deliver to the Administrative Agent from time to time cash or Cash Equivalents in an amount equal to 102% of the amount of the LOC Obligations or to furnish other security therefor acceptable to the Issuing Bank and the Required Revolving Lenders. If an Event of Default specified in paragraphs or above shall have occurred, the Revolving Commitments and the Term Loan Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of, and interest on, the Loans and the notes evidencing the Loans hereunder and all other amounts payable hereunder and thereunder shall automatically become due and payable without presentment, demand, protest, or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby expressly waived, anything in this Credit Agreement or any note evidencing any Loan hereunder to the contrary notwithstanding. Such remedies shall be in addition to any other remedy available to any of the Secured Parties pursuant to Applicable Law or otherwise.
(g)
(h)
 
 
 
Section 8.1 .
Security Interests
 
The Borrower, as security for the due and punctual payment of the Obligations (including interest accruing on and after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or of reorganization of any Credit Party whether or not post filing interest is allowed in such proceeding) and each of the Guarantors, as security for its obligations under hereof, hereby mortgages, pledges, assigns, transfers, sets over, conveys and delivers to the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) and grants to the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) a security interest in the Collateral.
Article 9
 
Section 8.2 .
Use of Collateral
 
So long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, and subject to the various provisions of this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents, a Credit Party may use the Collateral in any lawful manner except as may otherwise be expressly provided hereunder following an Event of Default.
 
Section 8.3 .
Credit Parties to Hold in Trust
 
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, each of the Credit Parties will, upon receipt by it of any revenue, income, profits or other sums in which a security interest is granted by this or which is payable pursuant to any agreement or otherwise, or of any check, draft, note, trade acceptance or other instrument evidencing an obligation to pay any such sum, hold such sum or instrument in trust for the Administrative Agent, segregate such sum or instrument from their own assets and forthwith, without any notice, demand or other action whatsoever (all notices, demands, or other actions on the part of the Administrative Agent, or any other Secured Party being expressly waived), endorse, transfer and deliver any such sums or instruments or both, to the Administrative Agent to be applied to the repayment of the Obligations in accordance with the provisions of hereof.
Article 8
Section 8.6
 
Section 8.4 .
Collections, etc
 
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may, in its sole discretion, in its name (on behalf of the Secured Parties) or in the name of any Credit Party or otherwise, demand, sue for, collect or receive any money or property at any time payable or receivable on account of or in exchange for, or make any compromise or settlement deemed desirable with respect to, any of the Collateral, but shall be under no obligation so to do, or the Administrative Agent may extend the time of payment, arrange for payment in installments, or otherwise modify the terms of, or release, any of the Collateral, without thereby incurring responsibility to, or discharging or otherwise affecting any liability of, any Credit Party. The Administrative Agent will not be required to take any steps to preserve any rights against prior parties to the Collateral. If any Credit Party fails to make any payment or take any action required hereunder, the Administrative Agent may make such payments and take all such actions as the Administrative Agent reasonably deems necessary to protect the Administrative Agent's (on behalf of the Secured Parties) security interests in the Collateral and/or the value thereof, and the Administrative Agent is hereby authorized (without limiting the general nature of the authority herein above conferred) to pay, purchase, contest or compromise any Liens that in the judgment of the Administrative Agent appear to be equal to, prior to or superior to the security interests of the Administrative Agent (on behalf of the Secured Parties) in the Collateral and any Liens not expressly permitted by this Credit Agreement. All costs and expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent in taking any of the actions specified in this or otherwise in protection and preservation of the Collateral shall be payable by the Borrower upon demand and shall be added to the Obligations.
Section 8.4
 
Section 8.5 .
Possession, Sale of Collateral, etc
 
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may lawfully enter upon the premises of any Credit Party or wherever the Collateral may be, and take possession of the Collateral, and may demand and receive such possession from any Person who has possession thereof, and the Administrative Agent may take such measures as it deems necessary or proper for the care or protection thereof, including the right to remove all or any portion of the Collateral, and with or without taking such possession may sell or cause to be sold, whenever the Administrative Agent shall decide, in one or more sales or parcels, at such prices as the Administrative Agent may deem appropriate, and for cash or on credit or for future delivery, without assumption of any credit risk, all or any portion of the Collateral, at any broker's board or at public or private sale, with 10 days' written notice to the Credit Parties of the time and place of any such public sale or sales (which notice the Credit Parties hereby agree is reasonable) and with such other notices as may be required by Applicable Law and cannot be waived, and neither the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank, the Lenders nor any other Secured Party shall have any liability should the proceeds resulting from a private sale be less than the proceeds realizable from a public sale. At any sale or sales made pursuant to this , any Secured Party or any other Person may bid for and be the purchaser of all or any portion of the Collateral so sold and thereafter hold the same absolutely, free (to the fullest extent permitted by Applicable Law) from any claim or right of whatever kind, including any equity of redemption, of any Credit Party, any such demand, notice, claim, right or equity being hereby expressly waived and released. To the extent such purchaser is the Administrative Agent or a Lender, such Person may make any payment on account thereof by using any claim for moneys then due and payable to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders by any Credit Party hereunder as a credit against the purchase price. Neither the Administrative Agent nor any Lender shall in any such sale make or be deemed to have made any representations or warranties with respect to the Collateral or any part thereof, and neither the Administrative Agent nor any other Secured Party shall be chargeable with any of the obligations or liabilities of any Credit Party. Each Credit Party hereby agrees (i) that it will indemnify and hold the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank, the Lenders and any other Secured Party harmless from and against any and all claims with respect to the Collateral asserted before the taking of actual possession or control of the relevant Collateral by the
Article 8
 
Administrative Agent, the Lenders or any other Secured Party pursuant to this , or arising out of any act of, or omission to act on the part of, any Person (other than a Secured Party) prior to such taking of actual possession or control by such Secured Party (whether asserted before or after such taking of possession or control), or arising out of any act on the part of any Credit Party or its Affiliates or agents before or after the commencement of such actual possession or control by such Secured Party; and (ii) no Secured Party shall have liability or obligation to any Credit Party arising out of any such claim except for acts of willful misconduct or gross negligence as determined by a final order or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction. In any action hereunder, the Administrative Agent, BAS, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders or any other Secured Party shall be entitled, if permitted by Applicable Law, to the appointment of a receiver without notice, to take possession of all or any portion of the Collateral and to exercise such powers as the court shall confer upon the receiver. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon the occurrence of an Event of Default, and during the continuation of such Event of Default, either Agent, the Issuing Bank, any Lender and/or any other Secured Party shall be entitled to apply, without prior notice to any of the Credit Parties, any cash or cash items constituting Collateral in the possession of such Secured Party to payment of the Obligations. All costs and expenses of the Administrative Agent or any other Secured Party incurred in connection with the taking possession and/or sale of any Collateral pursuant to this or otherwise in connection with any disposition of the Collateral shall be payable by the Borrower on demand and shall be added to the Obligations.
Article 8
Section 8.5
 
Section 8.6 .
Application of Proceeds on Default
 
Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, the balance in any account of any Credit Party with a Lender (other than any account expressly given to secure obligations other than the Obligations hereunder), all other income on the Collateral, and all proceeds from any sale of the Collateral pursuant hereto shall be applied first toward payment of the reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses paid or incurred by the Administrative Agent in enforcing this Credit Agreement, in realizing on or protecting any Collateral and in enforcing or collecting any Obligations or any Guaranty thereof, including, without limitation, court costs, reasonable attorney's fees and expenses and reasonable financial consultants' fees incurred by the Administrative Agent, then to satisfy or provide cash collateral for all LOC Obligations and then to the indefeasible payment in full in cash of the other Obligations in accordance with hereof. Any amounts remaining after such indefeasible payment in full shall be remitted to the appropriate Credit Party or as a court of competent jurisdiction may otherwise direct.
Section 2.4(f)
 
Section 8.7 .
Power of Attorney
 
Upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, each Credit Party hereby irrevocably, in the name of such Credit Party, authorizes and empowers the Administrative Agent, and assigns and transfers unto the Administrative Agent, and constitutes and appoints the Administrative Agent its true and lawful attorney-in-fact and as its agent, irrevocably, with full power of substitution for it and in its name, for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents and taking any action and executing any instrument which the Administrative Agent may deem necessary or advisable to accomplish the purposes hereof. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default which is not waived in writing by the Required Lenders, (a) each Credit Party does hereby irrevocably make, constitute and appoint the Administrative Agent or any of its officers or designees its true and lawful attorney-in-fact with full power in the name of the Administrative Agent, such other Person or such Credit Party to receive, open and dispose of all mail addressed to any Credit Party, and to endorse any notes, checks, drafts, money orders or other evidences of payment relating to the Collateral that may come into the possession of the Administrative Agent with full power and right to cause the mail of such Persons to be transferred to the Administrative Agent's own offices or otherwise, and to do any and all other acts necessary or proper to carry out the intent of this
 
Credit Agreement and the grant of the security interests hereunder and under the Fundamental Documents, and each Credit Party hereby ratifies and confirms all that the Administrative Agent or its substitutes shall properly do by virtue hereof; and (b) each Credit Party does hereby further irrevocably make, constitute and appoint the Administrative Agent or any of its officers or designees its true and lawful attorney-in-fact in the name of the Administrative Agent or any Credit Party (i) to enforce all of such Credit Party's rights under and pursuant to all agreements with respect to the Collateral, all for the sole benefit of the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties), (ii) to enter into and perform such agreements as may be necessary in order to carry out the terms, covenants and conditions of the Fundamental Documents that are required to be observed or performed by any Credit Party, (iii) to execute such other and further mortgages, pledges and assignments of the Collateral, and related instruments or agreements, as the Administrative Agent may reasonably require for the purpose of perfecting, protecting, maintaining or enforcing the security interests granted to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties hereunder and under the other Fundamental Documents, and (iv) to do any and all other things necessary or proper to carry out the intention of this Credit Agreement and the grant of the security interests hereunder and under the other Fundamental Documents. Each of the Credit Parties hereby ratifies and confirms in advance all that the Administrative Agent as such attorney-in-fact or its substitutes shall properly do by virtue of this power of attorney.
 
Section 8.8 .
Financing Statements, Direct Payments
 
Each Credit Party hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent to file UCC financing statements and any amendments thereto or continuations thereof, and any other appropriate security documents or instruments and to give any notices necessary or desirable to perfect the Lien of the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) on the Collateral, in all cases without the signature or approval of any Credit Party or to execute such items as attorney-in-fact for any Credit Party; , that the Administrative Agent shall provide copies of any such documents or instruments to the Borrower. Each Credit Party further authorizes the Administrative Agent upon the occurrence of an Event of Default under or hereof, and during the continuation of any such default, to notify any account debtors or tenants that all sums payable to any Credit Party relating to the Collateral shall be paid directly to the Administrative Agent.
provided
Section 7(b)
Section 7(c)
 
Section 8.9 .
Further Assurances
 
Upon the request of the Administrative Agent, each Credit Party hereby agrees to duly and promptly execute and deliver, or cause to be duly executed and delivered, at the cost and expense of the Credit Parties, such further instruments as may be necessary or proper, in the reasonable judgment of the Administrative Agent, to carry out the provisions and purposes of this or to perfect and preserve the Liens of the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties hereunder and under the Fundamental Documents, in the Collateral or any portion thereof.
Article 8
 
Section 8.10 .
Termination and Release
 
The security interests granted under this and elsewhere in the Fundamental Documents shall terminate upon the termination of this Credit Agreement and the Commitments hereunder, the payment of the Obligations and the expiration, termination, cancellation and/or full cash collateralization of the Letters of Credit hereunder (or, if applicable, as provided in or with respect to specific assets contemplated thereby). Upon request by the Credit Parties (and at the sole expense of the Credit Parties) after such termination, the Administrative Agent will take all reasonable action and do all things reasonably necessary, including executing UCC termination statements, to terminate the security interest in the Collateral granted to it (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) hereunder.
Article 8
Section 2.19
Section 6.4
 
Section 8.11 .
Remedies Not Exclusive
 
The remedies conferred upon or reserved to the Administrative Agent in this are intended to be in addition to, and not in limitation of, any other remedy or remedies available to the Administrative Agent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall have all rights and remedies of a secured creditor under Articles 8 and 9 of the UCC and under any other Applicable Law.
Article 8
 
Section 8.12 .
Continuation and Reinstatement
 
Each Credit Party further agrees that the security interest granted hereunder shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment or any part thereof of any Obligation is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Secured Party upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of any Credit Party or otherwise.
 
 
 
Section 9.1 .
Guaranty
 
(a) Each Guarantor unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the Secured Parties the due and punctual payment and performance of the Obligations (including interest accruing on and after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or of reorganization of any Credit Party whether or not post filing interest is allowed in such proceeding). Each Guarantor further agrees that the Obligations may be modified, increased, extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice or further assent from it (except as may be otherwise required herein), and it will remain bound upon this Guaranty notwithstanding any such modification, increase, extension or renewal.
 
(b) Each Guarantor waives presentation to, demand for payment from and protest to, as the case may be, any Credit Party or any other guarantor of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of protest for nonpayment, notice of acceleration and notice of intent to accelerate. The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be affected by (i) the failure of any Secured Party to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against the Borrower or any Guarantor or any other guarantor under the provisions of this Credit Agreement or any other agreement or otherwise; (ii) any modification, extension or renewal of any provision hereof or thereof; (iii) the failure of any Secured Party to obtain the consent of any Guarantor with respect to any rescission, waiver, compromise, acceleration, amendment or modification of any of the terms or provisions of this Credit Agreement, any notes evidencing any of the Loans hereunder or of any other Fundamental Document or other agreement in connection herewith or therewith; (iv) the release, exchange, waiver or foreclosure of any security held by the Administrative Agent for the Obligations or any of them; (v) the failure of any Secured Party to exercise any right or remedy against any Guarantor or any other guarantor of the Obligations; or (vi) the release or substitution of any Guarantor or other guarantor of the Obligations.
 
(c) Each Guarantor further agrees that this Guaranty constitutes a guaranty of performance and of payment when due and not just of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by any Secured Party to any security held for payment of the Obligations or to any balance of any deposit, account or credit on the books of any Secured Party in favor of the Borrower or any Guarantor, or to any other Person.
 
(d) Each Guarantor hereby expressly assumes all responsibility to remain informed of the financial condition of the Borrower, the other Guarantors and any other guarantors and any circumstances affecting the Collateral or the Mortgaged Properties or the ability of the Borrower to perform under this Credit Agreement.
 
(e) Each Guarantor's obligations under the Guaranty shall not be affected by the genuineness, validity, regularity or enforceability of the Obligations, any notes evidencing any of the Loans hereunder or any other instrument evidencing any Obligations, or by the existence, validity, enforceability, perfection, or extent of any Lien on any Collateral or Mortgaged Property securing any Obligation or by any other circumstance relating to the Obligations which might otherwise constitute a defense to this Guaranty. Neither of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank nor any of the Lenders make any representation or warranty with respect to any such circumstances or have any duty or responsibility whatsoever to any Guarantor in respect to the management and maintenance of the Obligations or any collateral security for the Obligations.
 
(f) As between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, on the other hand, the agreements in this Credit Agreement, the Notes and all the other Fundamental Documents shall be conclusively deemed to have been made in reliance on the guaranty provided by the Guarantors in this , and each Guarantor hereby waives notice of reliance by either Agent or any Lender on such guaranty.
Article 9
 
Section 9.2 .
No Impairment of Guaranty, etc
 
The obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason (except indefeasible payment and performance in full in cash of the Obligations), including, without limitation, any claim of waiver, release, surrender, alteration or compromise, and shall not be subject to any defense or set-off, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of the Obligations or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the obligations of each Guarantor hereunder shall not be discharged or impaired or otherwise affected by the failure of any Secured Party to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any remedy under this Credit Agreement or any other agreement, by any waiver or modification of any provision hereof or thereof, by any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of the Obligations, or by any other act or thing or omission or delay to do any other act or thing which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of such Guarantor or would otherwise operate as a discharge of such Guarantor as a matter of law, unless and until the termination of this Credit Agreement and the Commitments hereunder, the payment of the Obligations and the expiration, termination, cancellation and/or full cash collateralization of the Letters of Credit hereunder.
 
Section 9.3 .
Continuation and Reinstatement, etc
 
(a) Each Guarantor further agrees that its Guaranty hereunder shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any Obligation is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Secured Party upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of Borrower or a Guarantor, or otherwise. In furtherance of the provisions of this , and not in limitation of any other right which any Secured Party may have at law or in equity against the Borrower, a Guarantor or any other Person by virtue hereof, upon failure of the Borrower to pay any Obligation when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice or otherwise, each Guarantor hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by any Secured Party, forthwith pay or cause to be paid to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties (as applicable) in cash and in immediately available funds an amount equal to the unpaid amount of all the Obligations
Article 9
 
with interest thereon at a rate of interest equal to the applicable rate specified in hereof, and thereupon the Administrative Agent shall assign such Obligation, together with all security interests, if any, then held by the Administrative Agent in respect of such Obligation, to the Guarantor or Guarantors making such payment; such assignment to be subordinate and junior to the rights of the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties with regard to amounts payable by the Borrower in connection with the remaining unpaid Obligations (including interest accruing on and after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or of reorganization of an obligor whether or not post filing interest is allowed in such proceeding) and to be pro tanto to the extent to which the Obligation in question was discharged by the Guarantor or Guarantors making such payments.
Section 2.8
 
(b) All rights of a Guarantor against the Borrower, arising as a result of the payment by such Guarantor of any sums to the Administrative Agent for the benefit of the Secured Parties or directly to the Lenders hereunder by way of right of subrogation or otherwise, shall in all respects be subordinated and junior in right of payment to, and shall not be exercised by such Guarantor until and unless, the prior indefeasible payment in full in cash of all the Obligations (including interest accruing on and after the filing of any petition in bankruptcy or of reorganization of any Credit Party whether or not post filing interest is allowed in such proceeding). If any amount shall be paid to such Guarantor for the account of the Borrower, such amount shall be held in trust for the benefit of the Administrative Agent, segregated from such Guarantor's own assets, and shall forthwith be paid to the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties to be credited and applied to the Obligations, whether matured or unmatured.
 
Section 9.4 .
Limitation on Guaranteed Amount etc
 
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this , the amount guaranteed by each Guarantor hereunder shall be limited to the extent, if any, required so that its obligations under this shall not be subject to avoidance under Section 548 of the Bankruptcy Code or to being set aside or annulled under any Applicable Law relating to fraud on creditors. In determining the limitations, if any, on the amount of any Guarantor's obligations hereunder pursuant to the preceding sentence, it is the intention of the parties hereto that any rights of subrogation or contribution which such Guarantor may have under this , any other agreement or Applicable Law shall be taken into account.
Article 9
Article 9
Article 9
 
(b) Any Guarantor (other than Ventas) that no longer owns any Mortgaged Property because all Mortgaged Properties owned by it have been released pursuant to shall be deemed released of any further obligations as a Guarantor under this Credit Agreement upon such release of all of its Mortgaged Properties.
Section 2.19
 
 
 
Section 10.1 .
Cash Collateral Account
 
There shall be established with the Administrative Agent an account (the ") in the name of the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties), into which the Borrower may from time to time deposit Dollars pursuant to, and in accordance with, hereof. Bank of America, in its capacity as the bank (within the meaning of Section 9-102 of the UCC) with respect to the Cash Collateral Account (the ""), hereby agrees to comply with all orders and instructions of the Administrative Agent with regard to the Cash Collateral Account without the consent of any Credit Party. The documentation for and terms of the Cash Collateral Account shall be in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
Cash Collateral Account"
Section 2.7(f)
Cash Collateral Bank
 
Section 10.2 .
Investment of Funds
 
(a) The Administrative Agent is hereby authorized and directed to invest and reinvest the funds from time to time deposited into the Cash Collateral Account, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, on the instructions of the Borrower (provided that any such instructions given verbally shall be confirmed promptly in writing) or, if the Borrower shall fail to give such instructions upon delivery of any such funds, in the sole discretion of the Administrative Agent, that in no event may the Borrower give instructions to the Administrative Agent to, or may the Administrative Agent in its discretion, invest or reinvest funds in the Cash Collateral Account other than in Dollars or Cash Equivalents described in clause of the definition of Cash Equivalents, or described in clause or clause of the definition of Cash Equivalents to the extent issued by Bank of America.
provided
(i)
(iii)
(iv)
 
(b) Any net income or gain on the investment of funds from time to time held in the Cash Collateral Account, shall be promptly reinvested by the Administrative Agent as a part of the Cash Collateral Account; and any net loss on any such investment shall be charged against the Cash Collateral Account.
 
(c) Neither of the Administrative Agent, any of the Lenders nor any other Secured Party shall be a trustee for any of the Credit Parties, or shall have any obligations or responsibilities, or shall be liable for anything done or not done, in connection with the Cash Collateral Account, except as expressly provided herein and except that the Administrative Agent shall have the obligations of a secured party under the UCC. Neither of the Administrative Agent, any of the Lenders nor any other Secured Party shall have any obligation or responsibility or shall be liable in any way for any investment decision made in accordance with this or for any decrease in the value of the investments held in the Cash Collateral Account.
Section 10.2
 
Section 10.3 .
Grant of Security Interest
 
For value received and to induce the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit and the Lenders to enter into this Credit Agreement and to make Loans to the Borrower and to acquire participations from time to time as provided for in this Credit Agreement, as security for the payment of all of the Obligations, each of the Credit Parties hereby assigns to the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) and grants to the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties), a first and prior Lien upon all of such Credit Party's rights in and to the Cash Collateral Account, all cash, documents, instruments and securities from time to time held therein, and all rights pertaining to investments of funds in the Cash Collateral Account, and all products and proceeds of any of the foregoing. All cash, documents, instruments and securities from time to time on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account, and all rights pertaining to investments of funds in the Cash Collateral Account shall immediately and without any need for any further action on the part of any of the Credit Parties, the Administrative Agent or any other Secured Party, become subject to the Lien set forth in this , be deemed Collateral for all purposes hereof and be subject to the provisions of this Credit Agreement.
Section 10.3
 
Section 10.4 .
Remedies
 
At any time upon the occurrence and during the continuation of an Event of Default, the Administrative Agent may sell any documents, instruments and securities held in the Cash Collateral Account and may immediately apply the proceeds thereof and any other cash held in the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with .
Section 2.4(f)
 
 
 
Section 11.1 .
Appointment and Authorization of Administration Agent
 
(a) Each Lender hereby irrevocably (subject to ) appoints, designates and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such action on its behalf under the provisions of this Credit Agreement and each other Fundamental Document and to exercise such powers and perform such duties as are expressly delegated to it by the terms of this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document, together with such powers as are reasonably incidental thereto. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary contained elsewhere herein or in any other Fundamental Document, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or responsibilities, except those expressly set forth herein, nor shall the Administrative Agent have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender or any participant of a Lender or any other Secured Party, and no implied covenants, functions, responsibilities, duties, obligations or liabilities shall be read into this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document or otherwise exist against the Administrative Agent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing sentence, the use of the term "agent" herein and in the other Fundamental Documents with reference to the Administrative Agent and/or BAS is not intended to connote any fiduciary or other implied (or express) obligations arising under agency doctrine of any Applicable Law. Instead, such term is used merely as a matter of market custom, and is intended to create or reflect only an administrative relationship between independent contracting parties.
Section 11.9
 
(b) The Issuing Bank shall act on behalf of the Revolving Lenders with respect to any Letters of Credit issued by it and the LOC Documents associated therewith until such time (and for so long) as the Administrative Agent may agree at the request of the Required Revolving Lenders to act for the Issuing Bank with respect thereto; , , that the Issuing Bank shall have all of the benefits and immunities (i) provided to the Administrative Agent in this with respect to any acts taken or omissions suffered by the Issuing Bank in connection with Letters of Credit issued by it or proposed to be issued by it and the application and agreements for letters of credit pertaining to the Letters of Credit as fully as if the term "Administrative Agent" as used in this included the Issuing Bank with respect to such acts or omissions, and (ii) as additionally provided herein with respect to the Issuing Bank.
provided
however
Article 11
Article 11
 
(c) Each Secured Party hereby authorizes the Administrative Agent (in its sole discretion):
 
(i) in connection with the sale or other disposition of any asset included in the Collateral or any Mortgaged Property or all of the Capital Stock of any Guarantor, to the extent undertaken in accordance with the terms of this Credit Agreement, to release a Lien granted to it (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) on such asset or Capital Stock and/or to release such Guarantor from its obligations hereunder;
 
(ii) in connection with any refinancing of a portion of the Indebtedness and/or the Obligations under this Credit Agreement, to release a Lien granted to it (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) on any Collateral or Mortgaged Property, to the extent permitted or required hereunder;
 
(iii) to determine that the cost to the Borrower or another Credit Party is disproportionate to the benefit to be realized by the Secured Parties by perfecting a Lien in a given asset or group of assets included in the Collateral or any Mortgaged Property and that the
 
Borrower or other Credit Party should not be required to perfect such Lien in favor of the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties);
 
(iv) to appoint subagents to be the holder of record of a Lien to be granted to the Administrative Agent (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) or to hold on behalf of the Administrative Agent such Collateral, such Mortgaged Property or instruments relating thereto;
 
(v) to enter into and perform its obligations under the other Fundamental Documents;
 
(vi) to execute and deliver the agreements contemplated by hereof; and
Section 11.12
 
(vii) to enter into intercreditor and/or subordination agreements on terms acceptable to the Administrative Agent with Persons who have been granted Liens which are permitted pursuant to hereof.
Section 6.2
 
The Administrative Agent hereby agrees to release the Lien granted to it (for the benefit of the Secured Parties) pursuant to any Fundamental Document in the case of any event described in clause or above.
(c)(i)
(c)(ii)
 
Section 11.2 .
Delegation of Duties
 
The Administrative Agent may execute any of its duties under this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document by or through agents, employees or attorneys-in-fact and shall be entitled to advice of counsel and other consultants or experts concerning all matters pertaining to such duties. The Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for the negligence or misconduct of any agent or attorney-in-fact that it selects in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct.
 
Section 11.3 .
Liability of Administrative Agent
 
No Agent-Related Person shall (a) be liable for any action taken or omitted to be taken by any of them under or in connection with this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document or the transactions contemplated hereby (except for its own gross negligence or willful misconduct (as determined by a final order or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction) in connection with its duties expressly set forth herein), or (b) be responsible in any manner to any Lender, any participant of any Lender or any other Secured Party for any recital, statement, representation or warranty made by any Credit Party or any officer thereof, contained herein or in any other Fundamental Document, or in any certificate, report, statement or other document referred to or provided for in, or received by the Administrative Agent under or in connection with, this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document, or the validity, effectiveness, genuineness, enforceability or sufficiency of this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document, or for any failure of any Credit Party or any other party to any Fundamental Document to perform its obligations hereunder or thereunder. No Agent-Related Person shall be under any obligation to any Lender, any participant of any Lender or any other Secured Party to ascertain or to inquire as to the observance or performance of any of the agreements contained in, or conditions of, this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document, or to inspect the properties, books or records of any Credit Party or any Affiliate thereof.
 
Section 11.4 .
Reliance by Administrative Agent
 
(a) The Administrative Agent, in its capacity as such, shall be entitled to rely, and shall be fully protected in relying, upon any writing, communication, signature, resolution, representation, notice,
 
consent, certificate, affidavit, letter, telegram, facsimile, telex or telephone message, statement or other document or conversation believed by it to be genuine and correct and to have been signed, sent or made by the proper Person or Persons, and upon advice and statements of legal counsel (including counsel to any Credit Party), independent accountants and other experts selected by the Administrative Agent. The Administrative Agent shall be fully justified in failing or refusing to take any action under any Fundamental Document unless it shall first receive such advice or concurrence of the Required Lenders (or the Required Revolving Lenders or the Required Tranche B Term Lenders, as the case may be) as it deems appropriate and, if it so requests, it shall first be indemnified to its satisfaction by the Lenders against any and all liability and expense which may be incurred by it by reason of taking or continuing to take any such action. The Administrative Agent shall in all cases be fully protected in acting, or in refraining from acting, under this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document in accordance with a request or consent of the Required Lenders (or the Required Revolving Lenders or the Required Tranche B Term Lenders, as the case may be) or all the Lenders (or all the Revolving Lenders or all the Tranche B Term Lenders, if and as required hereunder), and such request and any action taken or failure to act pursuant thereto shall be binding upon all the Lenders and all participants of the Lenders. Where this Credit Agreement expressly permits or prohibits an action unless the Required Lenders (or the Required Revolving Lenders or the Required Tranche B Term Lenders, as the case may be) otherwise determine, the Administrative Agent shall, and in all other instances, the Administrative Agent may, but shall not be required to, initiate any solicitation for the consent or a vote of the applicable Lenders.
 
(b) For purposes of determining compliance with the conditions specified in , each Lender that has signed this Credit Agreement shall be deemed to have consented to, approved or accepted or to be satisfied with, each document or other matter either sent by the Administrative Agent to such Lender for consent, approval, acceptance or satisfaction, or required thereunder to be consented to or approved by or acceptable or satisfactory to a Lender.
Section 4.1
 
Section 11.5 .
Notice of Default
 
The Administrative Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge or notice of the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default, except with respect to defaults in the payment of principal, interest and fees required to be paid to the Administrative Agent for its own account or the account of the Lenders, unless the Administrative Agent shall have received written notice from a Lender or the Borrower referring to this Credit Agreement, describing such Default or Event of Default and stating that such notice is a "notice of default." The Administrative Agent will notify the Lenders of its receipt of any such notice. The Administrative Agent shall take such action with respect to such Default or Event of Default as may be directed by the Required Lenders (or the Required Revolving Lenders or the Required Tranche B Term Lenders, as the case may be) in accordance with hereof; , , that unless and until the Administrative Agent has received any such direction, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to) take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Default or Event of Default as it shall deem advisable or in the best interest of the Lenders.
Article 7
provided
however
 
Section 11.6 .
Credit Decision; Disclosure of Information by Administrative Agent
 
Each Lender acknowledges that no Agent-Related Person has made any representation or warranty to it, and that no act by the Administrative Agent hereinafter taken, including any consent to and acceptance of any assignment or review of the affairs of any Credit Party or any Affiliate thereof, shall be deemed to constitute any representation or warranty by any Agent-Related Person to any Lender as to any matter, including whether any Agent-Related Person has disclosed material information in its possession. Each Lender represents to the Administrative Agent that it has, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own appraisal of and investigation into the business, prospects, operations, property, financial
 
and other condition and creditworthiness of the Credit Parties and their respective Subsidiaries, and all Applicable Laws relating to the transactions contemplated hereby and by the other Fundamental Documents, and made its own decision to enter into this Credit Agreement and to make the Extensions of Credit to the Borrower and the other Credit Parties hereunder. Each Lender also represents that it will, independently and without reliance upon any Agent-Related Person and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit analysis, appraisals and decisions in taking or not taking action under this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents, and to make such investigations as it deems necessary to inform itself as to the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition and creditworthiness of the Borrower and the other Credit Parties. Except for notices, reports and other documents expressly required to be furnished to the Lenders by the Administrative Agent herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty or responsibility to provide any Lender with any credit or other information concerning the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of any of the Credit Parties or any of their respective Affiliates which may come into the possession of any Agent-Related Person.
 
Section 11.7 .
Indemnification of Agent-Related Persons
 
Whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, each Lender agrees (i) to reimburse each Agent-Related Person for such Lender's pro rata share of any expenses and fees incurred for the benefit of the Lenders under the Fundamental Documents, including, without limitation, counsel fees and compensation of agents, employees, financial advisors and other professionals paid for services rendered on behalf of the Lenders, and any other expense incurred in connection with the operations or enforcement thereof not reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower and (ii) to indemnify and hold harmless each Agent-Related Person, on demand, ratably in accordance with such Lender's Commitments, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses, or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against, it or any of them in any way relating to or arising out of any of the Fundamental Documents or any related agreement or document, or any action taken or omitted by it or any of them under any of the Fundamental Documents or any related agreement or document, to the extent not reimbursed by or on behalf of the Borrower or any other Credit Party (and without affecting in any manner the reimbursement obligations of the Borrower and the other Credit Parties hereunder), except such as shall result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct as determined by a final order or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction of the Person to be reimbursed, indemnified or held harmless, as applicable and (iii) to indemnify and hold harmless the Issuing Bank and any of its directors, officers, employees, attorneys-in-fact or agents on demand, in the amount of its pro rata share, from and against any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, penalties, actions, judgments, suits, costs, expenses or disbursements of any kind or nature whatsoever which may be imposed on, incurred by, or asserted against it or any of them in any way relating to or arising out of the issuance of any Letters of Credit or the failure to issue Letters of Credit if such failure or issuance was at the direction of the Required Revolving Lenders (except as shall result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct (as determined by a final order or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction) of the Person to be reimbursed, indemnified or held harmless, as applicable). To the extent indemnification payments made by the Lenders pursuant to this are subsequently recovered by any Agent-Related Person or the Issuing Bank from a Credit Party, such Agent-Related Person or the Issuing Bank, as applicable, will promptly refund such previously paid indemnity payments to the Lenders.
Section 11.7
 
Section 11.8 .
Administrative Agent in its Individual Capacity
 
Bank of America and its Affiliates may make loans to, issue letters of credit for the account of, accept deposits from, acquire equity interests in and generally engage in any kind of banking, trust,
 
financial advisory, underwriting or other business with each of the Credit Parties and their respective Affiliates as though Bank of America were not the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank hereunder and without notice to or consent of the Lenders. The Lenders acknowledge that, pursuant to such activities, Bank of America or its Affiliates may receive information regarding any Credit Party or its Affiliates (including information that may be subject to confidentiality obligations in favor of such Credit Party or such Affiliate) and acknowledge that the Administrative Agent shall be under no obligation to provide such information to them. With respect to its Loans, Bank of America shall have the same rights and powers under this Credit Agreement as any other Lender and may exercise such rights and powers as though it were not the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank, and the terms "Lender" and "Lenders" include Bank of America in its individual capacity.
 
Section 11.9 .
Successor Administrative Agent
 
The Administrative Agent may, upon 30 days' notice, give notice of its resignation to the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and the Borrower. Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Borrower so long as no Event of Default shall then exist and be continuing (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), to appoint a successor, which shall be a bank with an office in the United States, or an Affiliate of any such bank with an office in the United States. If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Bank, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above; that if the Administrative Agent shall notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted such appointment, then such resignation shall nonetheless become effective in accordance with such notice and (1) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder and under the other Fundamental Documents (except that in the case of any collateral security held by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders or the Issuing Bank under any of the Fundamental Documents, the retiring Administrative Agent shall continue to hold such collateral security until such time as a successor Administrative Agent is appointed) from and after the effective date of such resignation and (2) all payments, communications and determinations provided to be made by, to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender and the Issuing Bank directly, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this Section. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations hereunder or under the other Fundamental Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this Section) from and after the effective date of such resignation. The resigning Administrative Agent will refund to the Borrower a ratable portion of the annual fee for the period beyond the effective date of resignation. The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor. After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Fundamental Documents, the provisions of this Article and , and shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Affiliates, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents and in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Sections 11.7
12.4
12.5
 
Any resignation by Bank of America as Administrative Agent pursuant to this Section shall also constitute its resignation as Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender. Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, (a) such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties of the retiring Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender,
 
(b) the retiring Issuing Bank and Swingline Lender shall be discharged from all of their respective duties and obligations to issue and extend Letters of Credit and to make Swingline Loans, respectively, hereunder or under the other Fundamental Documents, and (c) the successor Issuing Bank shall issue letters of credit in substitution for the Letters of Credit, if any, outstanding at the time of such succession or make other arrangement satisfactory to the retiring Issuing Bank to effectively assume the obligations of the retiring Issuing Bank with respect to such Letters of Credit.
 
No resignation described in this shall waive or release any rights or remedies available to the Borrower for any obligations of such retiring party under this Credit Agreement or any Fundamental Document while such party served as the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as applicable.
Section 11.9
 
If, at any time, any Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank or Swingline Lender ceases to be a Lender, then at any time no Default or Event of Default shall then exist, at the option of the Borrower (said option to be exercised by written notice thereof from the Borrower given to such Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank and/or Swingline Lender), such Administrative Agent, Issuing Bank and/or Swingline Lender (as applicable) shall promptly resign following receipt of any such notice.
 
Section 11.10 .
No Other Duties
 
Despite designation as such, none of the Co-Syndication Agents, the Co-Documentation Agents, the Sole Lead Arranger or the Sole Book Manager shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Credit Agreement or any of the other Fundamental Documents except in its capacity, as applicable, as the Administrative Agent, a Lender or the Issuing Bank hereunder. Without limiting the foregoing, none of the Co-Syndication Agents, the Co-Documentation Agents, the Sole Lead Arranger or the Sole Book Manager shall have or be deemed to have any fiduciary relationship with any Lender. Each Lender acknowledges that it has not relied, and will not rely, on the Co-Syndication Agents, the Co-Documentation Agents, the Sole Lead Arranger or the Sole Book Manager in deciding to enter into this Credit Agreement or in taking or not taking action hereunder.
 
Section 11.11 .
Relations Among Lenders
 
Each Lender in its capacity as a Lender hereunder agrees that it will not take any legal action to enforce the Obligations, nor institute any actions or proceedings, against the Borrower or any other Credit Party hereunder or under any other Fundamental Document, or with respect to any Collateral or any Mortgaged Property, it being understood and agreed that all such actions are to be taken by the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Lenders. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no Lender may unilaterally terminate its Revolving Commitment or accelerate, or otherwise enforce or seek to enforce any rights or remedies with respect to, any Loans or other Obligations owed to it, except statutory or common law rights of banker's liens and setoff with respect to accounts maintained with such Lender. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each Lender shall have the right, independently and unilaterally, to take such action as it deems necessary or appropriate (including without limitation actions or proceedings against the Borrower or any other Credit Party) to demand and collect payment of those Obligations, due and owing to it personally and independently (including without limitation indemnity and reimbursement obligations relating to break-funding, capital adequacy, taxes and increased costs) other than principal and interest amounts; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not permit any Lender (other than the Administrative Agent acting solely in its capacity as Administrative Agent and with the approval of the Required Lenders hereunder) to accelerate any Debt, to terminate any funding or other lending commitment hereunder, to take any action involving any Mortgaged Property or other collateral hereunder or to take any other action requiring the consent, approval or other action of the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders.
 
Section 11.12 .
Tenant's Quiet Enjoyment
 
Upon the written request of Borrower, the Administrative Agent shall deliver a subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreement, in favor of the lessee under any lease of Mortgaged Properties, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, pursuant to which agreement the Administrative Agent shall agree (to the extent required by the applicable lease or sublease) (a) to give the tenant or subtenant thereunder the same notice, if any, given to the Borrower of any default or acceleration of any obligation underlying the applicable Mortgage or any sale in foreclosure under such Mortgage, (b) to permit the tenant or subtenant thereunder to cure any such default on the Borrower's behalf within any applicable cure period, (c) to permit the tenant or subtenant thereunder to appear by its representative and to bid at any sale in foreclosure made with respect to the applicable Mortgage and (d) subject to the terms to be included in the applicable subordination, non-disturbance and attornment agreement, not to disturb the aforesaid tenant's or subtenant's possession so long as it is not in default in performing its obligations under such lease or sublease.
 
Section 11.13 .
Lender Payments
 
(a) Except as otherwise provided herein, all payments by any Lender hereunder shall be made to the Administrative Agent at the office of Bank of America, N.A., 101 North Tryon, Charlotte, NC 28255, NC1-001-15-04; Attention: Credit Services (wiring information: ABA026009593; Acct. No. 1366212250600, Account Name: Credit Services; Ref: Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership) not later than 1:00 p.m., Charlotte, North Carolina time. All payments received after such time shall be deemed received on the next succeeding Business Day. All payments shall be made in Dollars and in immediately available funds.
 
Section 11.14 .
Administrative Agent May File Proof of Claims
 
In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to any Credit Party, the Administrative Agent (irrespective of whether the principal of any Loan or LOC Obligation shall then be due and payable as herein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Administrative Agent shall have made any demand on the Borrower) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise:
 
(a) to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of the principal and interest owing and unpaid in respect of the Loans, LOC Obligations and all other Obligations that are owing and unpaid and to file such other documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent and their respective agents and counsel and all other amounts due the Lenders, the Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent under , , and allowed in such judicial proceeding; and
Sections 2.5
12.4
12.5
11.7
 
(b) to collect and receive any monies or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Lender and the Issuing Bank to make such payments to the Administrative Agent and, in the event that the Administrative Agent shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Lenders and the Issuing Bank, to pay to the Administrative Agent any amount due for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and
 
advances of the Administrative Agent and its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Administrative Agent under , , and .
Sections 2.5
12.4
12.5
11.7
 
Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to authorize the Administrative Agent to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Lender or the Issuing Bank any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Obligations or the rights of any Lender or to authorize the Administrative Agent to vote in respect of the claim of any Lender in any such proceeding.
 
 
 
Section 12.1 .
Notices
 
(a) Notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered or mailed (or if by facsimile communications equipment, delivered by such equipment) addressed:
 
 
Bank of America, N.A.
Agency Management
1455 Market St., 5th Floor
Mail Code: CA5-701-05-19
San Francisco, CA 94103
Attn: Annie Cuenco
Telephone: 415-436-4008
Facsimile: 415-503-5007
Email: anna.cuenco@bankofamerica.com
 
with a copy to:
 
Bank of America, N.A.
Agency Services
101 North Tryon Street, 15
th
Floor
Mail Code: NC1-001-15-04
Charlotte, NC 28255
Attn: Richard Wright
Telephone: 704-387-2472
Facsimile: 704-409-0127
Email: richard.wright@bankofamerica.com
 
 
Bank of America, N.A.
Trade Operations-Los Angeles #22621
333 S. Beaudry Avenue, 19th Floor
Mail Code: CA9-703-19-23
Los Angeles, CA 90017-1466
Attn: Sandra Leon
Telephone: 213-345-5231
Facsimile: 213-345-6694
Email: sandra.leon@bankofamerica.com
 
 
10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
Attn: General Counsel
Facsimile: 502-357-9001
 
with a courtesy copy to:
 
Barack Ferrazzano Kirschbaum Perlman & Nagelberg LLP
333 West Wacker Drive
Suite 2700
Chicago, Illinois 60606
Attn: Richard S. Nikchevich and Joseph D. Lambert
Facsimile: 312-984-3150
 
 
or such other address as such party may from time to time designate by giving written notice to the other parties hereunder. Any failure of any Person giving notice pursuant to this to provide a courtesy copy to a party as provided herein shall not affect the validity of such notice. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Credit Agreement shall be deemed to have been given (x) on the date of receipt, when sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, if by mail, (y) when delivered, if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or (z) when receipt is acknowledged, if by facsimile communications equipment, in each case addressed to such party as provided in this or in accordance with the latest unrevoked written direction from such party. For purposes of electronic delivery of documents and information pursuant to the terms of , the Borrower's website address shall be www.ventasreit.com or such other website address as provided in written notification to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and each of the Lenders.
Section 12.1
Section 12.1
Section 5.1
 
(b) No notice to or demand on any of the Credit Parties shall entitle such Credit Party to any other or further notice or demand in the same, similar or other circumstances.
 
Section 12.2
Survival of Agreement, Representations and Warranties, etc.
 
All warranties, representations and covenants made by any of the Credit Parties herein, in any other Fundamental Document or in any certificate or other instrument delivered by it or on its behalf in connection with this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document shall be considered to have
 
been relied upon by the Administrative Agent, BAS, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders and, except for any terminations, amendments, modifications or waivers thereof in accordance with the terms hereof, shall survive the execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement, the making of the Loans and the issuance of the Letters of Credit herein contemplated and the execution and delivery of any notes evidencing any Loan hereunder regardless of any investigation made by the Administrative Agent, BAS, the Issuing Bank or the Lenders or on their behalf. All statements in any such certificate or other instrument shall constitute representations and warranties by the Credit Parties hereunder.
 
Section 12.3 .
Successors and Assigns; Syndications; Loan Sales; Participations
 
(a) The provisions of this Credit Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. Whenever in this Credit Agreement any of the parties hereto is referred to, such reference shall be deemed to include the successors and assigns of such party; , , that neither the Borrower nor any other Credit Party may assign its rights hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and all of the Lenders, and all covenants, promises and agreements by or on behalf of any of the Credit Parties which are contained in this Credit Agreement shall inure to the benefit of the successors and assigns of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders; and that assignments by the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Swingline Lender and the Issuing Bank shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in above and this .
provided
however
provided
further
Article 11
Section 12.3
 
(b) Each of the Lenders may (but only with the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower and in the case of an assignment of a Revolving Commitment and/or Revolving Loans, the Issuing Bank, which consent in each case shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and which consent by the Borrower shall not be required if at the time of the applicable Assignment and Assumption is delivered to the Administrative Agent for its acceptance and recording, an Event of Default has occurred and is then continuing) assign to an Eligible Assignee all or a portion of its interests, rights and obligations under this Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of any Tranche B Term Loan at the time owing to it, the Note(s) held by it, or all or a portion of its Revolving Commitment and the same portion of all Revolving Loans at the time owing to it and any Participation Interests held by it; that no such assignment shall apply to rights in respect of Swingline Loans); , , that (i) each assignment shall (x) in the case of a Revolving Loan, be in a minimum Revolving Commitment amount of $2,500,000 (or such lesser amount as shall equal any Lender's entire Revolving Commitment or Revolving Loan)), or (y) in the case of a Tranche B Term Loan (if any), be in a minimum Tranche B Term Loan amount of $1,000,000 (or such lesser amount as shall equal any Lender's entire Tranche B Term Loan), (ii) the parties to each such assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, for its acceptance and recording in the Register (as defined below), an Assignment and Assumption, together with the assigning Lender's original Note evidencing the Loans being assigned and a processing and recordation fee of $3,500 (which fee shall also be payable in the case of assignments to Affiliates of assigning Lenders or from an assigning Lender to another Lender or to a Related Fund hereunder) to be paid to the Administrative Agent by the assigning Lender or the assignee and (iii) if the assignee is not incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof, it shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent certification as to the exemption from deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes in accordance with . Upon such execution, delivery, acceptance and recording, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption, which effective date shall not (unless otherwise agreed to by the Administrative Agent) be earlier than five (5) Business Days after the date of acceptance and recording by the Administrative Agent, (x) the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender hereunder and under the other Fundamental Documents and shall be bound by the provisions hereof and (y) the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent provided in such Assignment and Assumption, relinquish its rights and be
provided
provided
however
Section 2.13
 
released from its obligations under this Credit Agreement except that, notwithstanding such assignment, any rights and remedies available to the Borrower for any breaches by such assigning Lender of its obligations hereunder while a Lender shall be preserved after such assignment and such Lender shall not be relieved of any liability to the Borrower due to any such breach and any and all rights to indemnification hereunder and rights under shall be preserved by such Lender in full after such assignment, subject to the terms and conditions hereof. In the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all or the remaining portion of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Credit Agreement, such assigning Lender shall cease to be a party hereto; that any and all rights to indemnification hereunder and rights under shall be preserved by such Lender in full after such assignment. It shall not be necessary for any Lender to sell the same percentage of its Revolving Commitment and Revolving Loans, or of its Tranche B Term Loan (as the case may be).
Section 12.2
provided
Section 12.2
 
(c) Each Lender, in accordance with , may at any time make an assignment of its interests, rights and obligations under this Credit Agreement, (i) without the consent of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Borrower, to any Affiliate of a Lender or to a Related Fund or (ii) with the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent and the Borrower, and, in the case of an assignment of a Revolving Commitment and/or Revolving Loans, the Issuing Bank, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and which consent by the Borrower shall not be required if at the time of the applicable Assignment and Assumption is delivered to the Administrative Agent for its acceptance and recording, an Event of Default has occurred and is then continuing, to any other Lender hereunder; , that with respect to any assignment to another Lender hereunder (x) the assigning Lender shall have been a Lender hereunder for a period of at least 120 days and (y) any assignment of such Lender's Tranche B Term Loan shall be in a minimum amount of $1,000,000 (or such lesser amount as shall equal such Lender's entire Tranche B Term Loan). Any such assignment to any Affiliate of the assigning Lender or to a Related Fund shall not be subject to the minimum amount requirements of and shall not release the assigning Lender from its remaining obligations hereunder, if any.
Section 12.3(b)
provided
Section 12.3(b)
 
(d) By executing and delivering an Assignment and Assumption, the assigning Lender and the assignee thereunder shall have confirmed to and agreed with each other and the other parties hereto as follows: (i) such assigning Lender represents and warrants that (A) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the interest subject to such Assignment and Assumption, (B) the interest subject to such Assignment and Assumption is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (C) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver such Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby; (ii) such assigning Lender assumes no responsibility with respect to (A) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document, (B) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of this Credit Agreement, the Notes, the other Fundamental Documents, the Mortgaged Properties or the Collateral, (C) the financial condition of the Borrower or any other Credit Party, any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Fundamental Document or (D) the performance or observance by the Borrower or any other Credit Party, any of their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under this Credit Agreement, any Note or any other Fundamental Document or with respect to any Mortgaged Property or Collateral, (iii) such assignee represents and warrants that (A) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver such Assignment and Assumption and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby and to become a Lender under this Credit Agreement, (B) it meets all requirements of an Eligible Assignee, (C) from and after the effective date of such Assignment and Assumption, it shall be bound by the provisions of this Credit Agreement as a Lender hereunder and, to the extent of the interest subject to such Assignment and Assumption, shall have the obligations of a Lender hereunder and (D) it has received a copy of this Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements
 
delivered pursuant to hereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into such Assignment and Assumption and to purchase the interest subject to such Assignment and Assumption on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision independently and without reliance on any Agent-Related Person or any other Lender; and (iv) such assignee agrees that (A) it will, independently and without reliance on any Agent-Related Person, the assigning Lender or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under this Credit Agreement and the other Fundamental Documents, and (B) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Fundamental Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Section 5.1
 
(e) The Administrative Agent shall maintain at its address at which notices are to be given to it pursuant to a copy of each Assignment and Assumption and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders and the Revolving Commitments of, and principal amount of the Loans owing to, each Lender from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, in the absence of manifest error, and the Credit Parties, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of the Fundamental Documents. The Register shall be available for inspection by any Credit Party or any Lender at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Section 12.1
Register
 
(f) Subject to the foregoing, upon its receipt of an Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee together with the assigning Lender's original Note evidencing the Loans being assigned thereby, the processing and recordation fee, and evidence of the Administrative Agent's and the Borrower's written consent to such assignment (as required), the Administrative Agent shall, if such Assignment and Assumption has been completed, (i) accept such Assignment and Assumption, (ii) record the information contained therein in the Register and (iii) give prompt written notice thereof to the Borrower. Within five (5) Business Days after receipt of the notice, the Borrower, at its own expense, shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent, in exchange for any surrendered Note, a new Note to the order of such assignee in an amount equal to the Revolving Commitment or the principal amount of the Tranche B Term Loan (if applicable) assumed by the assignee Lender pursuant to such Assignment and Assumption and if the assigning Lender has retained a Revolving Commitment or any portion of the Tranche B Term Loan (if applicable) hereunder, a new Note to the order of the assigning Lender in an amount equal to the Revolving Commitment or the principal amount of the Tranche B Term Loan (if applicable) retained by it hereunder.
 
(g) Each of the Lenders may, without the consent of any of the Credit Parties or the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the other Lenders, sell participations to one or more banks or other financial entities in all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Credit Agreement (including, without limitation, all or a portion of the Tranche B Term Loan (if applicable) at the time owing to it and any notes held by it evidencing such Loans, or all or a portion of its Revolving Commitment and the same portion of all Revolving Loans at the time owing to it and any notes held by it evidencing its Revolving Loans and its participation in Letters of Credit); , , that (i) notwithstanding any such participation, any such Lender's obligations under this Credit Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such participant shall not be granted any voting rights or any right to control the vote of such Lender under this Credit Agreement, except that such participant may be granted voting rights (or a right to control the vote of such Lender under this Credit Agreement) with respect to (A) proposed decreases and/or forgiveness of principal, interest rates or fees, (B) subject to hereof, changes to the amount of the Revolving Commitments (except for a ratable decrease in the Total Revolving Committed Amount), (C) scheduled amortizations and/or final maturity of any Loan and fees (in each case, as applicable to such participant), (D) releases of all or substantially all the Collateral or the
provided
however
Section 12.11
 
Mortgaged Properties and (E) any release of Ventas from its obligations hereunder or any release of all or substantially all of the Guarantors hereunder, (iii) any such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, (iv) the participating banks or other entities shall be entitled to the cost protection provisions contained in , , , and hereof, but a participant shall not be entitled to receive pursuant to such provisions an amount larger than its share of the amount to which the Lender granting such participation would have been entitled to receive and (v) the Credit Parties, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's and its participants' rights and obligations under this Credit Agreement.
Sections 2.10
2.11
2.12
2.13
2.4
 
(h) A Lender may, in connection with any assignment or participation or proposed assignment or participation pursuant to this , disclose to the assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant, any information relating to any of the Credit Parties furnished to the Administrative Agent, BAS, the Issuing Bank or such Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower or any other Credit Party; , that prior to any such disclosure, each such assignee or participant or proposed assignee or participant shall agree in writing to be bound by the provisions of hereof.
Section 12.3
provided
Section 12.17
 
(i) Any assignment pursuant to paragraph or of this shall constitute an amendment of as of the effective date of such assignment.
(b)
(c)
Section 12.3
Schedule 1
 
(j) The Administrative Agent and the Issuing Bank may deem and treat any Lender which is a party to this Credit Agreement as the owner of such Lender's respective portions of the Loans and participations in Letters of Credit for all purposes, unless and until a written notice of the assignment or transfer thereof executed by any such Lender shall have been received by the Administrative Agent and shall have become effective in accordance with this .
Section 12.3
 
(k) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Credit Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to a Federal Reserve Bank or to any trustee for holders of obligations owed, or securities issued, by such Lender; that no such pledge or assignment shall release such Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute for such Lender any such pledgee, assignee or trustee as a party hereto, notwithstanding any rights such pledgee, assignee or trustee may acquire from such Lender as a result of foreclosure or otherwise.
provided
 
(l) Any Lender (a "") may, without the consent of the Administrative Agent or the Borrower, grant to a special purpose funding vehicle identified as such in writing from time to time by the Granting Lender to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (an "") the option to fund all or any part of any Loan that such Granting Lender would otherwise be obligated to make pursuant to this Agreement; that (i) nothing herein shall constitute a commitment by any SPC to fund any Loan, and (ii) if an SPC elects not to exercise such option or otherwise fails to make all or any part of such Loan, the Granting Lender shall be obligated to make such Loan pursuant to the terms hereof or, if it fails to do so, to make such payment to the Administrative Agent as is required under , and (iii) nothing contained in this subsection shall relieve any Granting Lender from any of its obligations under this Credit Agreement or any Fundamental Document nor shall any such grant waive or release any rights or remedies available to the Borrower for any breach by such Granting Lender under this Credit Agreement or any Fundamental Document. Each party hereto hereby agrees that (A) neither the grant to any SPC nor the exercise by any SPC of such option shall increase the costs or expenses or otherwise increase or change the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement (including its obligations under ), or modify, waive or release any right of the Borrower under this Credit Agreement or any Fundamental Document, (B) no SPC shall be liable for any indemnity or similar payment obligation
Granting Lender
SPC
provided
Section 2.20(b)(ii)
(l)
Section 2.11
 
under this Agreement for which a Lender would be liable (it being understood that an SPC's Granting Lender shall be, and at all times remain, responsible for any and all such liabilities and payment obligations), and (C) the Granting Lender shall for all purposes (including, without limitation, the approval of any amendment, waiver or other modification of any provision of any Fundamental Document, the making of any vote, consent or approval required of the Lender hereunder, or the receipt of all notices or other deliveries from the Borrower hereunder), remain the lender of record hereunder. The making of a Loan by an SPC hereunder shall utilize the Commitment of the Granting Lender to the same extent, and as if, such Loan were made by such Granting Lender. In furtherance of the foregoing, each party hereto hereby agrees (which agreement shall survive the termination of this Agreement) that, prior to the date that is one year and one day after the payment in full of all outstanding commercial paper or other senior debt of any SPC, it will not institute against, or join any other Person in instituting against, such SPC any bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, insolvency, or liquidation proceeding under the laws of the United States or any State thereof. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , any SPC may (1) with notice to, but without prior consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent and without paying any processing fee therefor, assign all or any portion of its right to receive payment with respect to any Loan to the Granting Lender and (2) subject to the confidentiality provisions of , disclose on a confidential basis any non-public information relating to its funding of Loans to any rating agency, commercial paper dealer or provider of any surety or Guarantee or credit or liquidity enhancement to such SPC.
subsection (l)
Section 12.17
 
Section 12.4 .
Expenses; Documentary Taxes
 
Whether or not the transactions hereby contemplated shall be consummated, the Borrower agrees to pay (a) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent in connection with, or arising out of, the performance of due diligence, the negotiation, preparation, execution, delivery, waiver or modification and administration of this Credit Agreement and any other documentation contemplated hereby, the making of the Revolving Loans and the issuance of the Letters of Credit, the Collateral, any Mortgaged Property or any Fundamental Document, including but not limited to, the reasonable out-of-pocket fees and disbursements of outside legal counsel and of out-of-pocket costs and internally allocated charges of audit or field examinations of the Administrative Agent in connection with the administration of this Credit Agreement, the verification of financial data or the transactions contemplated hereby, and the reasonable fees and disbursements of Moore & Van Allen PLLC, counsel to the Administrative Agent, and any other counsel that the Administrative Agent shall retain, and (b) if an Event of Default occurs, and subject to , all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender in the enforcement, protection, workout or restructuring (as distinguished from administration) of the rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Lenders (as the case may be) in connection with this Credit Agreement, the other Fundamental Documents, the Letters of Credit, any notes evidencing the Loans hereunder, the Mortgaged Properties or the Collateral, or as a result of any transaction, action or non-action arising from any of the foregoing, including but not limited to, the reasonable fees and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Lenders. Such payments shall be made on the date this Credit Agreement is executed by the Borrower and thereafter shall be due upon receipt of invoices but payable no later than thirty (30) days after receipt. The Borrower agrees that it shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, BAS, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders from and hold them harmless against any documentary taxes, assessments or charges made by any U.S. Governmental Authority by reason of the execution and delivery of this Credit Agreement or any notes evidencing any of the Loans hereunder or the issuance of Letters of Credit. The obligations of the Borrower under this shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement and the Commitments hereunder, the payment of the Obligations and the expiration, termination, cancellation and/or full cash collateralization of the Letters of Credit hereunder. The Administrative Agent shall take all reasonable actions (as determined in its sole judgment) to minimize mortgage and similar taxes and fees payable by any Credit Party in connection
Section 11.11
Section 12.4
 
with the filing, recordation or perfection of the Liens now or hereafter securing the Obligations, including, without limitation, the amendment or modification of existing mortgage loan documents of record where (in the Administrative Agent's sole judgment) it is reasonable and practical to do so.
 
Section 12.5 .
Indemnity
 
The Borrower agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, their respective directors, officers, employees, trustees, investment advisors, attorneys-in-fact and agents, and any professionals retained by them and, in addition, in connection with matters relating to a Letter of Credit, the Issuing Bank and its directors, officers, employees, trustees, investment advisors and agents (each an "") (to the full extent permitted by Applicable Law) from and against any and all claims, demands, losses, judgments, damages and liabilities (including liabilities for penalties) incurred by any of them as a result of, or arising out of, or in any way related to, or by reason of, any investigation, litigation or other proceeding (whether or not any Indemnified Party is a party thereto) related to the entering into and/or performance of any Fundamental Document or the use of the proceeds of any Loans hereunder or the issuance of any Letter of Credit or the granting of Liens and security interests on the Mortgaged Properties and the Collateral or the consummation of any other transaction contemplated in any Fundamental Document, including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and disbursements of outside counsel incurred in connection with any such investigation, litigation or other proceeding (but excluding any such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses of an Indemnified Party to the extent incurred (x) by reason of the gross negligence or willful misconduct, as determined by a final order or judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, of such Indemnified Party, or (y) in any litigation in which the Indemnified Party and one or more Credit Parties are adverse to each other, and in which the Credit Parties prevail on their claims and the Indemnified Party does not prevail on its defenses or its counterclaims interposed in such litigation). If any proceeding, including any governmental investigation, shall be instituted involving any Indemnified Party, in respect of which indemnity may be sought against the Borrower, such Indemnified Party shall promptly notify the Borrower in writing, and the Borrower shall assume the defense thereof on behalf of such Indemnified Party including the employment of counsel (reasonably satisfactory to such Indemnified Party) and payment of all reasonable fees and expenses. Any Indemnified Party shall have the right to employ separate counsel in any such proceeding and participate in the defense thereof, but the fees and expenses of such separate counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnified Party unless (i) the employment of such separate counsel has been specifically authorized by the Borrower or (ii) the named parties to any such action (including any impleaded parties) include such Indemnified Party and the Borrower and such Indemnified Party shall have been advised by counsel that there may be one or more legal defenses available to such Indemnified Party which are different from or in addition to those available to the Borrower (in which case the Borrower shall not have the right to assume the defense of such action on behalf of such Indemnified Party). At any time after the Borrower has assumed the defense of any proceeding involving any Indemnified Party in respect of which indemnity has been sought against the Borrower, such Indemnified Party may elect, by written notice to the Borrower, to withdraw its request for indemnity and thereafter the defense of such proceeding shall be maintained by counsel of the Indemnified Party's choosing and at the Indemnified Party's expense. The foregoing indemnity agreement includes any reasonable costs incurred by an Indemnified Party in connection with any action or proceeding which may be instituted in respect of the foregoing by the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank or by any other Person either against the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Lenders or in connection with which any officer or employee of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or the Lenders is called as a witness or deponent, including, but not limited to, the reasonable fees and disbursements of Moore & Van Allen PLLC, counsel to the Administrative Agent, and any out-of-pocket costs incurred by the Administrative Agent, BAS, the Issuing Bank or the Lenders in appearing as a witness or in otherwise complying with legal process served upon them. The obligations of the Borrower under this shall survive the termination of this Credit Agreement and the Commitments hereunder, the payment of the Obligations
Indemnified Party
Section 12.5
 
hereunder and shall inure to the benefit of any Person who was a Lender notwithstanding such Person's assignment of all or any part of its Loans and its Revolving Commitment hereunder.
 
Subject to the terms hereof, the restrictions on any such action contained in the leases for the Mortgaged Properties and the Borrower's ability to enforce any lease for any Mortgaged Property in a commercially reasonable manner, if a Credit Party shall fail to do any act or thing which it has covenanted to do hereunder or under a Fundamental Document, or any representation or warranty of a Credit Party shall be breached, the Administrative Agent may (but shall not be obligated to), upon reasonable notice to the Borrower, do the same or cause it to be done or remedy any such breach, and there shall be added to the Obligations hereunder the cost or expense incurred by the Administrative Agent in so doing, and any and all amounts expended by the Administrative Agent in taking any such action shall be repayable to it upon its demand therefor and shall bear interest at a rate per annum set forth in from time to time in effect from the date advanced to the date of repayment.
Section 2.8(a)(iii)
 
Section 12.6 .
CHOICE OF LAW
 
THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, THE OTHER FUNDAMENTAL DOCUMENTS AND ANY NOTE EVIDENCING ANY OF THE LOANS HEREUNDER SHALL IN ALL RESPECTS BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, AND GOVERNED BY, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO CONFLICTS OF LAW PRINCIPLES AND BY FEDERAL LAW TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE; , , THAT WITH RESPECT TO ANY MORTGAGE FILED IN A JURISDICTION OUTSIDE THE STATE OF NEW YORK, THE LAWS OF SUCH JURISDICTION WHERE SUCH MORTGAGE WAS FILED SHALL APPLY.
PROVIDED
HOWEVER
 
Section 12.7 .
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
 
TO THE EXTENT NOT PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW WHICH CANNOT BE WAIVED, EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, AND COVENANTS THAT IT WILL NOT ASSERT (WHETHER AS PLAINTIFF, DEFENDANT OR OTHERWISE), ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY FORUM IN RESPECT OF ANY ISSUE, CLAIM, DEMAND, ACTION, OR CAUSE OF ACTION ARISING OUT OF OR BASED UPON THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, ANY OTHER FUNDAMENTAL DOCUMENT OR THE SUBJECT MATTER THEREOF, IN EACH CASE WHETHER NOW EXISTING OR HEREAFTER ARISING AND WHETHER IN CONTRACT OR TORT OR OTHERWISE. EACH PARTY HERETO ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT HAS BEEN INFORMED BY THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO THAT THE PROVISIONS OF THIS CONSTITUTE A MATERIAL INDUCEMENT UPON WHICH SUCH OTHER PARTIES HAVE RELIED, ARE RELYING AND WILL RELY IN ENTERING INTO THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT AND ANY OTHER FUNDAMENTAL DOCUMENT. ANY PARTY MAY FILE AN ORIGINAL COUNTERPART OR A COPY OF THIS WITH ANY COURT AS WRITTEN EVIDENCE OF THE CONSENT OF ANY OTHER PARTY TO THE WAIVER OF ITS RIGHTS TO TRIAL BY JURY.
SECTION 12.7
SECTION 12.7
 
Section 12.8 .
WAIVER WITH RESPECT TO DAMAGES
 
EACH CREDIT PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT NEITHER THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, BAS, THE ISSUING BANK NOR ANY LENDER HAS ANY FIDUCIARY RELATIONSHIP WITH, OR FIDUCIARY DUTY TO, ANY CREDIT PARTY ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER FUNDAMENTAL DOCUMENT AND THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, BAS, THE ISSUING BANK AND THE LENDERS, ON THE ONE HAND, AND THE CREDIT PARTIES, ON THE OTHER HAND, IN CONNECTION THEREWITH IS SOLELY THAT OF DEBTOR AND
 
CREDITOR. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, NO CREDIT PARTY SHALL ASSERT, AND EACH CREDIT PARTY HEREBY WAIVES, ANY CLAIMS AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT, BAS, THE ISSUING BANK AND THE LENDERS ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, FOR SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES (AS OPPOSED TO CONSEQUENTIAL OR ACTUAL DAMAGES) ARISING OUT OF, IN CONNECTION WITH, OR AS A RESULT OF, THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, ANY FUNDAMENTAL DOCUMENT, ANY AGREEMENT OR INSTRUMENT CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY, OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY OR THEREBY.
 
Section 12.9 .
No Waiver
 
No failure on the part of the Administrative Agent, BAS, the Issuing Bank or any Lender to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right, power or remedy hereunder, under any Note, with regard to any Letter of Credit, or any other Fundamental Document shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right, power or remedy preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or remedy. All remedies hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any other remedies provided by law.
 
Section 12.10 .
Extension of Payment Date
 
Except as otherwise specifically provided in hereof, should any payment or prepayment of principal of or interest on any of the Loans or any other amount due hereunder, become due and payable on a day other than a Business Day, the due date of such payment or prepayment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day and, in the case of a payment or prepayment of principal, interest shall be payable thereon at the rate herein specified during such extension.
Article 2
 
Section 12.11 .
Amendments, etc
 
Unless otherwise specifically provided herein, any provision of this Credit Agreement may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed by the Credit Parties and the Required Lenders and, if the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent are affected thereby, by the Administrative Agent (it being hereby acknowledged and agreed that this shall not be deemed to impose any additional requirements for the release of one or more Mortgaged Properties requested by the Borrower pursuant to, and in accordance with, the terms of ); that no such amendment or waiver shall (i) increase any Commitment of any Lender without the prior written consent of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal of, or rate of interest on, any Loan or any fees specified herein, due to a Lender without the prior written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iii) postpone the date fixed for any payment of principal of, or interest on, any Loan or any fees hereunder due to a Lender or for any termination of any Commitment of a Lender, without the prior written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (iv) decrease any amount payable to a Lender pursuant to the provisions of or hereof, without the prior written consent of each Lender directly affected thereby, (vi) release Ventas from its obligations hereunder or release all or substantially all of the Guarantors hereunder (except as expressly permitted hereby), without the prior written consent of all of the Lenders, (vii) release all or substantially all of the Collateral or all or substantially all of the Mortgaged Properties from the Liens created by the Fundamental Documents (except as expressly permitted hereby), without the prior written consent of all of the Lenders, (viii) amend or modify the provisions of this , without the prior written consent of all of the Lenders, (ix) amend the definition of "Required Lenders," without the prior written consent of all of the Lenders, (x) amend the definition of "Required Revolving Lenders" without the prior written consent of all of the Revolving Lenders, or (xi) amend the definition of "Required Tranche B Term Lenders" without the consent of all of the Tranche B Term Lenders. No such amendment, modification, waiver or consent
Section 12.11
Section 2.19
provided
Section 2.7
Section 2.4
Section 12.11
 
shall amend hereof or adversely affect the rights and obligations of the Administrative Agent or the Issuing Bank hereunder without their prior written consent. Each holder of a Loan or a Participation Interest, a Commitment or a Note evidencing any loan hereunder shall be bound by any amendment, modification, waiver or consent authorized as provided herein (whether or not any applicable Note shall have been marked to indicate such amendment, modification, waiver or consent); and any consent by any holder of a Loan, a Commitment or a Note shall bind any Person subsequently acquiring such Loan, Commitment or Note (whether or not any applicable Note is so marked).
Section 2.16
 
If a condition to the Borrowing of a Revolving Loan or the issuance of a Letter of Credit hereunder is not satisfied or some other event occurs that would prohibit the Borrower from borrowing such Revolving Loan or receiving a Letter of Credit hereunder, then in order to waive such condition or consent to such event, the consent of the Required Revolving Lenders (as a separate group) shall be required in addition to any other consent required pursuant this Credit Agreement. If a condition to the Borrowing of the Tranche B Term Loan hereunder is not satisfied or some other event occurs that would prohibit the Borrower from borrowing the Tranche B Term Loan hereunder, then in order to waive such condition or consent to such event, the consent of the Required Tranche B Term Lenders (as a separate group) shall be required in addition to any other consent required pursuant to this Credit Agreement.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this or anything to the contrary contained in this Credit Agreement, any Lender which has requested that it not receive material, non-public information concerning the Borrower or any of the other Credit Parties and which is therefore unable or unwilling to vote with respect to an issue arising under this Credit Agreement will agree to vote and will be deemed to have voted its Commitments under this Credit Agreement pro rata in accordance with the percentage of Commitments voted in favor of, and the percentage of Commitments voted against, any such issue under this Credit Agreement.
Section 12.11
 
If the Borrower shall have requested a waiver, consent, or amendment from the Lenders of any of the matters described in clauses through of this or any other matter except the matters specified in clauses through above, and the Borrower shall have received such waiver, consent, or amendment from some, but not all, Lenders for approval thereof, then with respect to any Lender that has not consented (the ""), the Borrower may, upon at least five (5) Business Days' prior written or facsimile notice to such Non-Consenting Lender and the Administrative Agent, identify to the Administrative Agent a Purchasing Lender which will purchase (for an amount, in immediately available funds, equal to the principal amount of outstanding Loans payable to such Non-Consenting Lender, plus all accrued but unpaid interest and fees payable to such Non-Consenting Lender) the Revolving Commitment (if applicable), the Tranche B Term Loan Commitment (if applicable) and the amount of outstanding Loans and Participation Interests from the Non-Consenting Lender, and such Non-Consenting Lender shall thereupon assign its Revolving Commitment (if applicable), the Tranche B Term Loan Commitment (if applicable), any Loans owing to such Non-Consenting Lender, any notes held by such Non-Consenting Lender and any Participation Interests held by such Non-Consenting Lender to such Purchasing Lender pursuant to hereof; that the consent of the Administrative Agent required pursuant to shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
(i)
(viii)
Section 12.11
(ix)
(xii)
Non-Consenting Lenders
Section 12.3
provided
Section 12.3
 
Section 12.12 .
Severability
 
Any provision of this Credit Agreement or of any Note evidencing any Loan hereunder which is invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
 
Section 12.13 .
VENUE; SERVICE OF PROCESS
 
EACH PARTY HERETO (EACH A "") HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE JURISDICTION OF THE STATE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK IN NEW YORK COUNTY AND TO THE JURISDICTION OF THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK SITTING IN NEW YORK COUNTY, FOR THE PURPOSES OF ANY SUIT, ACTION OR OTHER PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR BASED UPON THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE LETTERS OF CREDIT, THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, ANY OTHER FUNDAMENTAL DOCUMENT AND THE SUBJECT MATTER THEREOF). EACH SUBMITTING PARTY TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW (A) HEREBY WAIVES, AND AGREES NOT TO ASSERT, BY WAY OF MOTION, AS A DEFENSE, OR OTHERWISE, IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR OTHER PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN THE ABOVE-NAMED COURTS, ANY CLAIM THAT IT IS NOT SUBJECT PERSONALLY TO THE JURISDICTION OF SUCH COURTS, THAT ITS PROPERTY IS EXEMPT OR IMMUNE FROM ATTACHMENT OR EXECUTION, THAT THE SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IS BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM, THAT THE VENUE OF THE SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING IS IMPROPER OR THAT THIS CREDIT AGREEMENT, THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF, ANY OTHER FUNDAMENTAL DOCUMENT OR THE SUBJECT MATTER THEREOF (AS APPLICABLE) MAY NOT BE ENFORCED IN OR BY SUCH COURT AND (B) HEREBY WAIVES THE RIGHT TO ASSERT IN ANY SUCH ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING ANY OFFSETS OR COUNTERCLAIMS EXCEPT COUNTERCLAIMS THAT ARE COMPULSORY OR OTHERWISE ARISE FROM THE SAME SUBJECT MATTER. EACH SUBMITTING PARTY HEREBY CONSENTS TO SERVICE OF PROCESS BY MAIL AT THE ADDRESS TO WHICH NOTICES ARE TO BE GIVEN TO IT PURSUANT TO HEREOF. EACH SUBMITTING PARTY AGREES THAT ITS SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION AND CONSENT TO SERVICE OF PROCESS BY MAIL IS MADE FOR THE EXPRESS BENEFIT OF EACH OF THE OTHER SUBMITTING PARTIES. FINAL JUDGMENT AGAINST ANY SUBMITTING PARTY IN ANY SUCH ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE, AND MAY BE ENFORCED IN ANY OTHER JURISDICTION (X) BY SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING ON THE JUDGMENT, A CERTIFIED OR TRUE COPY OF WHICH SHALL BE CONCLUSIVE EVIDENCE OF THE FACT AND OF THE AMOUNT OF INDEBTEDNESS OR LIABILITY OF THE SUBMITTING PARTY THEREIN DESCRIBED OR (Y) IN ANY OTHER MANNER PROVIDED BY OR PURSUANT TO THE LAWS OF SUCH OTHER JURISDICTION, , , THAT THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT MAY AT ITS OPTION BRING SUIT, OR INSTITUTE OTHER JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS AGAINST A SUBMITTING PARTY OR ANY OF ITS ASSETS IN ANY STATE OR FEDERAL COURT OF THE UNITED STATES OR OF ANY COUNTRY OR PLACE WHERE THE SUBMITTING PARTY OR SUCH ASSETS MAY BE FOUND.
SUBMITTING PARTY
SECTION 12.1
PROVIDED
HOWEVER
 
Section 12.14 .
Headings
 
Article and Section headings used herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and are not to affect the construction of or be taken into consideration in interpreting this Credit Agreement.
 
Section 12.15 .
Execution in Counterparts
 
This Credit Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same instrument. Signature pages may be detached from counterpart documents and reassembled to form duplicate executed originals. Delivery of an executed signature page to this Credit Agreement by facsimile shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Credit Agreement.
 
Section 12.16 .
Subordination of Intercompany Indebtedness, Receivables and Advances
 
(a) Each Credit Party hereby agrees that any intercompany Indebtedness or other intercompany receivables or intercompany advances of any other Credit Party, directly or indirectly, in favor of such Credit Party of whatever nature at any time outstanding shall be completely subordinate in right of payment to the prior payment in full of the Obligations, and that no payment on any such Indebtedness, receivable or advance shall be made (except intercompany receivables and intercompany advances not prohibited under the terms hereof may be repaid and intercompany Indebtedness not prohibited under the terms hereof may be repaid, in each case so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing) unless specifically consented to by the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders in writing, until the prior payment in full of all the Obligations, termination of the Commitments and the expiration and/or termination of all Letters of Credit (or the cash collateralization of the outstanding Letters of Credit in an amount equal to 102% of the then current LOC Obligations).
 
(b) In the event that any payment on any such Indebtedness shall be received by such Credit Party other than as permitted by before payment in full of all Obligations, termination of the Commitments and the expiration and/or termination of all Letters of Credit (or the cash collateralization of the outstanding Letters of Credit in an amount equal to 102% of the then current LOC Obligations), such Credit Party shall receive such payments and hold the same in trust for, segregate the same from its own assets and shall immediately pay over to, the Administrative Agent on behalf of the Secured Parties all such sums to the extent necessary so that the Secured Parties shall have been paid all Obligations owed or which may become owing.
Section 12.16(a)
 
Section 12.17 .
Confidentiality
 
Each of the Lenders understands that some of the information furnished to it pursuant to this Credit Agreement may be received by it prior to the time that such information shall have been made public, and each of the Lenders hereby agrees that it will keep all the information received by it in connection with this Credit Agreement confidential except that a Lender shall be permitted to disclose information (i) to such of its officers, directors, employees, agents, representatives, auditors, consultants, advisors, trustees, investment advisors, lawyers and affiliates as need to know such information in connection with this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document (each of whom shall be made aware by such Lender of the confidential nature of such information and the requirement of this ); (ii) to a proposed assignee or participant in accordance with hereof; (iii) to the extent required by Applicable Law and regulations or by any subpoena or other legal process (in any which event such Lender shall promptly notify the Borrower to the extent not prohibited by Applicable Law); (iv) to the extent requested by any bank regulatory authority or other regulatory authority; (v) to the extent such information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this , (B) becomes available to such Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower or any of its Affiliates, which source is not known to such Lender to be prohibited from transmitting the information to such Lender by any contractual or other obligation to the Borrower or (C) was available to such Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to its disclosure to such Lender; (vi) to the extent the Borrower shall have consented to such disclosure in writing; or (vii) as may be necessary in connection with the servicing of the Loans hereunder, in protecting or enforcing any rights and/or remedies in connection with any Fundamental Document or in any proceeding in connection with any Mortgaged Property, any Collateral or any Fundamental Document or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Section 12.17
Section 12.3(h)
Section 12.17
 
Section 12.18 .
Entire Agreement
 
This Credit Agreement (including the Exhibits and Schedules hereto) represents the entire agreement of the parties with regard to the subject matter hereof and the terms of any letters and other documentation entered into between any of the parties hereto (other than the Fee Letter) prior to the execution of this Credit Agreement which relate to Loans to be made or Letters of Credit to be issued hereunder shall be replaced by the terms of this Credit Agreement.
 
Section 12.19 .
Affirmation
 
As additional consideration for the agreement by the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank and the Lenders to enter into this Credit Agreement, for the Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit, for the Lenders to make the Loans to the Borrower and to participate in Letters of Credit, upon the terms and conditions provided herein, each Credit Party hereby acknowledges and agrees that each party which is a signatory to this Credit Agreement as of the Closing Date (each, a "") that was a party to the Prior Credit Agreement has performed all of its duties and obligations under the Prior Credit Agreement, and any and all instruments or agreements executed or delivered in connection with the Prior Credit Agreement, and that no Credit Party has any claim against any Signatory Party on account of the foregoing; , , that in no event shall anything contained in this Credit Agreement be deemed to give rise to (nor shall any provision of this be effective to the extent that it would directly or indirectly result in) any waiver, release or similar discharge of Black Diamond in connection with the Black Diamond Litigation or otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each Credit Party expressly reserves all of its rights against Black Diamond in connection with the Black Diamond Litigation or otherwise. Promptly after the Closing Date, the Administrative Agent will use reasonable efforts to cause to be cancelled and returned all promissory notes delivered under or in connection with the Prior Credit Agreement.
Signatory Party
provided
however
Section 12.19
 
Section 12.20 .
Enforcement of Rights; No Obligation to Marshall Assets
 
In enforcing any rights under this Credit Agreement or any other Fundamental Document, neither the Administrative Agent nor any of the other Secured Parties shall be required to resort to any particular security, right or remedy through foreclosure or otherwise, or to proceed in any particular order of priority, or to otherwise act or refrain from acting; and, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, each Credit Party hereby waives and releases any right to a marshaling of assets or a sale in inverse order of alienation.
 
Section 12.21 .
Reproduction of Documents
 
The Credit Agreement, all documents constituting Schedules or Exhibits hereto, and all documents relating hereto received by a party hereto, including, without limitation: (a) consents, waivers and modifications that may hereafter be executed; (b) the Fundamental Documents; and (c) financial statements, certificates, and other information previously or hereafter furnished to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Bank or any Lender may be reproduced by the party receiving the same by any photographic, photostatic, microfilm, micro-card, miniature photographic or other similar process. Each of the parties hereto agrees and stipulates that, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, any such reproduction shall be admissible in evidence as the original itself in any judicial or administrative proceeding (whether or not the original is in existence and whether or not such reproduction was made by such party in the regular course of business) and that, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, any enlargement, facsimile, or further reproduction of such reproduction shall likewise be admissible in evidence.
 
Section 12.22 .
USA PATRIOT Act Notice
 
Each Lender that is subject to the Act (as hereinafter defined) and the Administrative Agent (for itself and not on behalf of any Lender) hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender or the Administrative Agent, as applicable, to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
Act
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Credit Agreement to be duly executed as of the day and the year first written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
Drawn by and when
recorded mail to:
 
Moore & Van Allen, PLLC (TWC)
100 North Tryon Street, Floor 47
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-4003
 
STATE OF CONNECTICUT
 
COUNTY OF NEW LONDON
 
 
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED OPEN-END MORTGAGE, ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (this "Amendment") is made and entered into as of the 8
th
day of September, 2004, by and between
 
VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Mortgagor"); and
 
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., a national banking association, in its capacity as Administrative Agent (the "Mortgagee").
 
:
RECITALS
 
A. The Mortgagor executed an Amended and Restated Open-End Mortgage, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement for the benefit of Mortgagee dated April 17, 2002 and recorded in Vol. 1266, Page 043 in the New London Land Records (the "Mortgage"), relating to that certain real property owned by the Mortgagor and described on attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "").
Schedule A
Premises
 
B. The Mortgagor and the Mortgagee wish to amend the Mortgage.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Mortgagor and the Mortgagee hereby agree as follows:
 
1. The third recital of the Mortgage is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"WHEREAS, in connection with that certain credit facility in the amount of $300 million (the "") established in favor of Mortgagor pursuant to the terms of that certain Third Amended and Restated Credit, Security and Guaranty Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004 (as amended, modified, increased, extended, renewed or replaced from time
Credit Facility
 
to time, the "") among Mortgagor, as borrower thereunder, Ventas, Inc., certain subsidiaries of Mortgagor, as guarantors, the Lenders identified therein (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as issuing bank for the letters of credit thereunder, Administrative Agent, and certain Co-Syndication Agents and Co-Documentation Agents, Mortgagor has refinanced the debt obligations secured by the Original Mortgage. Terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Credit Agreement; and"
Credit Agreement
Lenders
 
2. The definition of Secured Indebtedness in the Mortgage is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"WHEREAS, in this Mortgage, any reference to "" shall mean the total indebtedness, obligations and liabilities to be secured by this Mortgage consisting of the sum of the following:
Secured Indebtedness
 
(i) the aggregate principal of all Loans and other advances made and to be made by the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, the outstanding amount of which shall not exceed Three Hundred Million Dollars ($300,000,000) at any time, as the same may be increased to Four Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($450,000,000) per the terms of the Credit Agreement;
plus
 
(ii) interest on the principal amount of all Loans made and to be made by the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, as provided in the Credit Agreement;
plus
 
(iii) all other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement, this Mortgage and any other Fundamental Document (as defined herein) which relate to the Credit Agreement, or any of the security therefore, in each case as the same may be amended, amended and restated, modified or supplemented from time to time (including advances to protect the collateral and all costs of enforcement), or as the maturities thereof may be extended or renewed from time to time;
plus
 
(iv) any and all Hedging Obligations payable by Borrower to the Hedging Banks or any amounts payable to Bank of America, N.A. or any other Lender in connection with any bank account maintained by the Borrower or any other Credit Party (as defined in the Credit Agreement) at Bank of America, N.A. or any other Lender or any other banking services provided to the Borrower or any other Credit Party by Bank of America, N.A. or any other Lender with respect to, or in any way related to, any of the Fundamental Documents;
plus
 
(v) any other Obligations (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of the Borrower; and"
 
3. The second granting clause of the Mortgage is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"TOGETHER WITH, all of the estate, right, title and interest of the Mortgagor, as lessor, both at law and in equity, under any leases which may now or hereafter be entered into in respect of the Trust Property (as hereinafter defined) (including without limitation Master Lease No. 1 (as defined in the Credit Agreement)), as the same may be hereafter amended, modified, restated, extended, supplemented, renewed or consolidated (but only to the extent that such leases relate to the Trust Property) and all subleases, licenses, occupancy agreements or concessions whereby any Person has agreed to pay money or any consideration to the Mortgagor for the use, possession or occupancy of the Trust Property or any part thereof, and all rents, income, profits, benefits, avails, advantages and claims against guarantors under any thereof (each of the foregoing is referred to as a "" and collectively are referred to as the "") and all rights in and to any deposits of cash, securities or other property which may be held at any time and from time to time by Mortgagor as the lessor under the Leases to secure the performance of the covenants, conditions and agreements to be performed by any lessee thereunder; and"
Lease
Leases
 
4. Section 2 of Article IV of the Mortgage is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"Section 2. . Notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered or mailed (or if by facsimile communications equipment, delivered by such equipment) addressed, (a) if to the Mortgagee, to it at Agency Management, 1455 Market Street, 5
Notices
th
Floor, Mail Code: CA5-701-05-19, San Francisco, California 94103, Attention: Annie Cuenco, Facsimile No.: (415) 503-5137 with a copy to 101 North Tryon Street, 15
th
Floor, NC-001-15-04, Charlotte, North Carolina, Attn: Richard Wright, Facsimile No.: (704) 409-0127, or (b) if to Mortgagor, to it at 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223, Attn: General Counsel, Facsimile No.: (502) 357-9001, with a courtesy copy to Barack, Ferrazzano, Kirschbaum & Nagelberg, LLP, 333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2700, Chicago, Illinois, Attn: Richard S. Nikchevich, Facsimile No.: (312) 984-3150, or (c) if to Trustee, to it at P. O. Box 2922, Phoenix, Arizona 85062, or (d) such other address as such party may from time to time designate by giving written notice to the other parties hereunder. Any failure of any Person giving notice pursuant to this Section to provide a courtesy copy to a party as provided herein shall not affect the validity of such notice. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Mortgage shall be deemed to have been given (x) on the date of receipt, when sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, if by mail, (y) when delivered, if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or (z) when receipt is acknowledged, if by facsimile communications equipment, in each case addressed to such party as provided in this Section or in accordance with the latest unrevoked written direction from such party. No notice to or demand on Mortgagor shall entitle Mortgagor to any other or further notice or demand in the same, similar or other circumstances."
 
5. Except as hereby modified, the terms and conditions of the Mortgage remain in full force and effect.
 
6. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State in which the Premises are located.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Mortgagor and the Mortgagee have executed this Amendment as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
Before me, on September 8, 2004, the undersigned, personally appeared T. Richard Riney, known to me to be the Exec V.P., General Counsel & Secretary of Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, the general partner of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, and that as such signer of the foregoing instrument acknowledged the execution of the same to be his free act and deed, the free act and deed of such corporation and the free act and deed of such limited partnership.
 
In witness whereof I hereunto set my hand and official seal.
 
 
[SEAL]
 
 
Before me, 0n September 8, 2004, the undersigned, personally appeared Kevin Wagley, known to me to be the Principal of Bank of America, N.A., a national banking association, and that as such signer of the foregoing instrument acknowledged the execution of the same to be his free act and deed, the free act and deed of such association.
 
In witness whereof I hereunto set my hand and official seal.
 
 
[SEAL]
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
Drawn by and when
recorded mail to:
 
Moore & Van Allen, PLLC (TWC)
100 North Tryon Street, Floor 47
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-4003
 
STATE OF ARIZONA
 
COUNTY OF PIMA
 
 
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED DEED OF TRUST, ASSIGNMENT OF RENTS AND LEASES AND SECURITY AGREEMENT (WITH FINANCING STATEMENT  FIXTURE FILING) (this "Amendment") is made and entered into as of the 8
th
day of September, 2004, by and between
 
VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Grantor"); and
 
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., a national banking association, in its capacity as Administrative Agent (the "Beneficiary").
 
:
RECITALS
 
A. The Grantor executed an Amended and Restated Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases and Security Agreement (with Financing Statement  Fixture Filing) for the benefit of Beneficiary dated April 17, 2002 and recorded as Docket 11783, Page 3367 in the Pima County, Official Records (the "Deed of Trust"), relating to that certain real property owned by the Grantor and described on attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "").
Schedule A
Premises
 
B. The Grantor and the Beneficiary wish to amend the Deed of Trust.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Grantor and the Beneficiary hereby agree as follows:
 
1. The third recital of the Deed of Trust is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"WHEREAS, in connection with that certain credit facility in the amount of $300 million (the "") established in favor of Grantor pursuant to the terms of that certain Third
Credit Facility
 
Amended and Restated Credit, Security and Guaranty Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004 (as amended, modified, increased, extended, renewed or replaced from time to time, the "") among Grantor, as borrower thereunder, Ventas, Inc., certain subsidiaries of Grantor, as guarantors, the Lenders identified therein (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as issuing bank for the letters of credit thereunder, Administrative Agent, and certain Co-Syndication Agents and Co-Documentation Agents, Grantor has refinanced the debt obligations secured by the Original Deed of Trust. Terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Credit Agreement; and"
Credit Agreement
Lenders
 
2. The definition of Secured Indebtedness in the Deed of Trust is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"WHEREAS, in this Deed of Trust, any reference to "" shall mean the total indebtedness, obligations and liabilities to be secured by this Deed of Trust consisting of the sum of the following:
Secured Indebtedness
 
(i) the aggregate principal of all Loans and other advances made and to be made by the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, the outstanding amount of which shall not exceed Three Hundred Million Dollars ($300,000,000) at any time, as the same may be increased to Four Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($450,000,000) per the terms of the Credit Agreement;
plus
 
(ii) interest on the principal amount of all Loans made and to be made by the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, as provided in the Credit Agreement;
plus
 
(iii) all other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement, this Deed of Trust and any other Fundamental Document (as defined herein) which relate to the Credit Agreement, or any of the security therefore, in each case as the same may be amended, amended and restated, modified or supplemented from time to time (including advances to protect the collateral and all costs of enforcement), or as the maturities thereof may be extended or renewed from time to time;
plus
 
(iv) any and all Hedging Obligations payable by Borrower to the Hedging Banks or any amounts payable to Bank of America, N.A. or any other Lender in connection with any bank account maintained by the Borrower or any other Credit Party (as defined in the Credit Agreement) at Bank of America, N.A. or any other Lender or any other banking services provided to the Borrower or any other Credit Party by Bank of America, N.A. or any other Lender with respect to, or in any way related to, any of the Fundamental Documents;
plus
 
(v) any other Obligations (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of the Borrower; and"
 
3. The second granting clause of the Deed of Trust is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"TOGETHER WITH, all of the estate, right, title and interest of the Grantor, as lessor, both at law and in equity, under any leases which may now or hereafter be entered into in respect of the Trust Property (as hereinafter defined) (including without limitation Master Lease No. 1 (as defined in the Credit Agreement)), as the same may be hereafter amended, modified, restated, extended, supplemented, renewed or consolidated (but only to the extent that such leases relate to the Trust Property) and all subleases, licenses, occupancy agreements or concessions whereby any Person has agreed to pay money or any consideration to the Grantor for the use, possession or occupancy of the Trust Property or any part thereof, and all rents, income, profits, benefits, avails, advantages and claims against guarantors under any thereof (each of the foregoing is referred to as a "" and collectively are referred to as the "") and all rights in and to any deposits of cash, securities or other property which may be held at any time and from time to time by Grantor as the lessor under the Leases to secure the performance of the covenants, conditions and agreements to be performed by any lessee thereunder; and"
Lease
Leases
 
4. Section 2 of Article IV of the Deed of Trust is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"Section 2. . Notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered or mailed (or if by facsimile communications equipment, delivered by such equipment) addressed, (a) if to the Beneficiary, to it at Agency Management, 1455 Market Street, 5
Notices
th
Floor, Mail Code: CA5-701-05-19, San Francisco, California 94103, Attention: Annie Cuenco, Facsimile No.: (415) 503-5137 with a copy to 101 North Tryon Street, 15
th
Floor, NC-001-15-04, Charlotte, North Carolina, Attn: Richard Wright, Facsimile No.: (704) 409-0127, or (b) if to Grantor, to it at 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223, Attn: General Counsel, Facsimile No.: (502) 357-9001, with a courtesy copy to Barack, Ferrazzano, Kirschbaum & Nagelberg, LLP, 333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2700, Chicago, Illinois, Attn: Richard S. Nikchevich, Facsimile No.: (312) 984-3150, or (c) if to Trustee, to it at P. O. Box 2922, Phoenix, Arizona 85062, or (d) such other address as such party may from time to time designate by giving written notice to the other parties hereunder. Any failure of any Person giving notice pursuant to this Section to provide a courtesy copy to a party as provided herein shall not affect the validity of such notice. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Deed of Trust shall be deemed to have been given (x) on the date of receipt, when sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, if by mail, (y) when delivered, if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or (z) when receipt is acknowledged, if by facsimile communications equipment, in each case addressed to such party as provided in this Section or in accordance with the latest unrevoked written direction from such party. No notice to or demand on Grantor shall entitle Grantor to any other or further notice or demand in the same, similar or other circumstances."
 
5. Except as hereby modified, the terms and conditions of the Deed of Trust remain in full force and effect.
 
6. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State in which the Premises are located.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Grantor and the Beneficiary have executed this Amendment as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 8
th
day of September, 2004, by T. Richard Riney, the Exec. V.P., General Counsel & Secretary of Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, the general partner of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, on behalf of the limited liability company.
 
 
My commission expires:
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 8
th
day of September, 2004, by Kevin Wagley, an authorized officer of Bank of America, N.A., a national banking association, on behalf of the association.
 
 
My commission expires:
 

Exhibit 10.4
 
Drawn by and when
recorded mail to:
 
Moore & Van Allen, PLLC (TWC)
100 North Tryon Street, Floor 47
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202-4003
 
STATE OF ARIZONA
 
COUNTY OF PIMA
 
 
THIS FIRST AMENDMENT TO AMENDED AND RESTATED ASSIGNMENT OF LEASES AND RENTS (this "Amendment") is made and entered into as of the 8
th
day of September, 2004, by and between
 
VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Assignor"); and
 
BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., a national banking association, in its capacity as Administrative Agent (the "Assignee").
 
:
RECITALS
 
A. The Assignor executed an Amended and Restated Assignment of Leases and Rents dated April 17, 2002 and recorded as Docket 11783, Page 3394 in the Pima County, Official Records (the "Assignment"), relating to that certain real property owned by the Assignor and described on attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "").
Schedule A
Premises
 
B. The Assignor and the Assignee wish to amend the Assignment.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Assignor and the Assignee hereby agree as follows:
 
1. The third recital of the Assignment is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"WHEREAS, in connection with that certain credit facility in the amount of $300 million (the "") established in favor of Assignor pursuant to the terms of that certain Third Amended and Restated Credit, Security and Guaranty Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004 (as amended, modified, increased, extended, renewed or replaced from time to time, the "") among Assignor, as borrower thereunder, Ventas, Inc., certain subsidiaries of
Credit Facility
Credit Agreement
 
Assignor, as guarantors, the Lenders identified therein (the ""), Bank of America, N.A., as issuing bank for the letters of credit thereunder, Administrative Agent, and certain Co-Syndication Agents and Co-Documentation Agents, Assignor has refinanced the debt obligations secured by the Original Assignment. Terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Credit Agreement; and"
Lenders
 
2. The definition of Secured Indebtedness in the Assignment is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"WHEREAS, in this Assignment, any reference to "" shall mean the total indebtedness, obligations and liabilities to be secured by this Assignment consisting of the sum of the following:
Secured Indebtedness
 
(i) the aggregate principal of all Loans and other advances made and to be made by the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, the outstanding amount of which shall not exceed Three Hundred Million Dollars ($300,000,000) at any time, as the same may be increased to Four Hundred Fifty Million Dollars ($450,000,000) per the terms of the Credit Agreement;
plus
 
(ii) interest on the principal amount of all Loans made and to be made by the Lenders under the Credit Agreement, as provided in the Credit Agreement;
plus
 
(iii) all other amounts payable under the Credit Agreement, the Mortgage and any other Fundamental Document (as such term is defined in the Credit Agreement) which relate to the Credit Agreement, or any of the security therefore, in each case as the same may be amended, amended and restated, modified or supplemented from time to time (including advances to protect the collateral and all costs of enforcement), or as the maturities thereof may be extended or renewed from time to time;
plus
 
(iv) any and all Hedging Obligations (as defined in the Credit Agreement) payable by Assignor to the Hedging Banks (as defined in the Credit Agreement) or any amounts payable to Bank of America, N.A. or any other Lender in connection with any bank account maintained by the Borrower or any other Credit Party (as defined in the Credit Agreement) at Bank of America, N.A. or any other Lender or any other banking services provided to the Borrower or any other Credit Party by Bank of America, N.A. or any other Lender with respect to, or in any way related to, any of the Fundamental Documents;
plus
 
(v) any other Obligations (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of the Borrower."
 
3. The second to last recital in the Assignment is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"WHEREAS, in furtherance of the foregoing, Assignor has executed and delivered to Assignee an Amended and Restated Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases and Security Agreement (with Financing Statement  Fixture Filing), dated as of April 17, 2002, as amended by a First Amendment to Amended and Restated Deed of Trust, Assignment of Rents and Leases and Security Agreement (with Financing Statement  Fixture Filing) dated as of September 8, 2004 (as amended, the "") on , all of Assignor's right, title and interest in and to the land more particularly described in attached hereto and made a part hereof (the "") and any and all buildings and improvements now or hereafter located or erected on the Land (collectively, the ""). The Land and the Improvements, together with certain other properties and rights described in the Mortgage, are hereinafter referred to collectively as the ""."
Mortgage
inter alia
Schedule A
Land
Improvements
Mortgaged Property
 
3. The first granting clause in the Assignment is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and in consideration of good and valuable consideration paid by Assignee to Assignor, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, and in order to further secure the prompt and punctual payment of the Secured Indebtedness and the performance of the Assignor of the covenants and agreements contained in the Credit Agreement, the Mortgage and the other Fundamental Documents, Assignor by these presents does hereby unconditionally, absolutely and presently bargain, sell, assign and set over unto Assignee all right, title and interest of Assignor in and to any and all existing or future leases, lettings, tenancies, subleases, franchises, concessions, or any other agreements which may now or hereafter be entered into in respect of the Mortgaged Property, or upon or covering use or occupancy of all or any part of the Mortgaged Property (including without limitation Master Lease No. 1 (as defined in the Credit Agreement)), as the same may be hereafter amended, modified, restated, extended, renewed, replaced or consolidated (but only to the extent that such agreements relate to the Mortgaged Property), and any and all guaranties of any lessee's obligations under any provisions thereof and all rights relating thereto and under any and all extensions and renewals thereof (any such leases or lease agreements and tenancies being hereinafter referred to individually as a "" and collectively as "" and any lessee thereunder is hereinafter referred to individually as a "" and collectively as "");"
Lease
Leases
Lessee
Lessees
 
4. Section 12 of the Assignment is amended in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"2. . Notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered or mailed (or if by facsimile communications equipment, delivered by such equipment) addressed, (a) if to the Assignee, to it at Agency Management, 1455 Market Street, 5
Notices
th
Floor, Mail Code: CA5-701-05-19, San Francisco, California 94103, Attention: Annie Cuenco, Facsimile No.: (415) 503-5137 with a copy to 101 North Tryon Street, 15
th
Floor, NC-001-15-04, Charlotte, North Carolina, Attn: Richard Wright, Facsimile No.: (704) 409-0127, or (b) if to Assignor, to it at 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223, Attn: General Counsel, Facsimile No.: (502) 357-9001, with a courtesy copy to Barack, Ferrazzano, Kirschbaum, Perlman & Nagelberg LLP, 333 West Wacker Drive, Suite 2700, Chicago, Illinois, Attn: Richard S. Nikchevich, Facsimile No.: (312) 984-3150, or (c) such other address as such
 
party may from time to time designate by giving written notice to the other parties hereunder. Any failure of any Person giving notice pursuant to this Section to provide a courtesy copy to a party as provided herein shall not affect the validity of such notice. All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Assignment shall be deemed to have been given (x) on the date of receipt, when sent by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, if by mail, (y) when delivered, if delivered by hand or overnight courier service or (z) when receipt is acknowledged, if by facsimile communications equipment, in each case addressed to such party as provided in this Section or in accordance with the latest unrevoked written direction from such party. No notice to or demand on Assignor shall entitle Assignor to any other or further notice or demand in the same, similar or other circumstances."
 
5. Except as hereby modified, the terms and conditions of the Assignment remain in full force and effect.
 
6. This Amendment shall be deemed to be a contract made under, and for all purposes shall be construed in accordance with, the laws of the State in which the Premises is located.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Assignor and the Assignee have executed this Amendment as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 8
th
day of September, 2004, by T. Richard Riney, the Exec. V.P., General Counsel & Secretary of Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation, the general partner of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership, on behalf of the limited liability company.
 
 
 
 
The foregoing instrument was acknowledged before me this 8
th
day of September, 2004, by Kevin Wagley, an authorized officer of Bank of America, N.A., a national banking association, on behalf of the association.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.5
 
 
1. Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Mortgagor, has executed and delivered a First Amendment to Amended and Restated Mortgage, Assignment of Rents and Security Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004, to Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent, as Mortgagee, with respect to each of the properties listed in the table below, which agreements are substantially identical in all material respects to the agreement filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, except for immaterial differences relating to recording, mortgage and similar taxes, notary acknowledgements, attestation requirements, corporate seal requirements, and other similar items relating to site or state-specific legal requirements, document titles, remedies and other matters.
 
 
 
2. Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Grantor, has executed and delivered a First Amendment to Amended and Restated Deed of Trust and Security Agreement dated as of September 8, 2004, to Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent, as Beneficiary, with respect to each of the properties listed in the table below, which agreements are substantially identical in all material respects to the agreement filed as Exhibit 10.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, except for immaterial differences relating to recording, mortgage and similar taxes, notary acknowledgements, attestation requirements, corporate seal requirements, and other similar items relating to site or state-specific legal requirements, document titles, trustee entity, remedies and other matters.
 
 
 
3. Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, as Assignor, has executed and delivered a First Amendment to Amended and Restated Assignment of Leases and Rents dated as of September 8, 2004, to Bank of America, N.A., in its capacity as Administrative Agent, as Assignee, with respect to each of the properties listed in the table below, which agreements are substantially identical in all material respects to the agreement filed as Exhibit 10.4 to this Current Report on Form 8-K, except for immaterial differences relating to recording, mortgage and similar taxes, notary acknowledgements, attestation requirements, corporate seal requirements, and other similar items relating to site or state-specific legal requirements, document titles, trustee entity, remedies and other matters.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A  Legal Descriptions of the Land
Exhibit B  Term/Commencement Date/Expiration Date
Exhibit C  Allocation Schedule-Applicable Transferred Property Percentage
Exhibit D  Renewal Groups
Exhibit E  Master Leases
Exhibit F  Intentionally Omitted
Exhibit G  Form of Lease Guaranty
Schedule 2.1A  Base Patient Revenues
Schedule 2.1C  Existing Ground Leases
Schedule 13.7  Insurance Summary
Schedule 16.1(m)A  Licensed Beds as of the Commencement Date
Schedule 40.12  Tenant  Affiliate Sublessees
 
 
THIS MASTER LEASE AGREEMENT NO. 1A (hereinafter this "") is dated as of the 8
Lease
th
day of September, 2004 (the ""), and is between VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership (together with its successors and assigns, ""), and KINDRED HEALTHCARE, INC., a Delaware corporation formerly known as Vencor, Inc. (""), and KINDRED HEALTHCARE OPERATING, INC., a Delaware corporation formerly known as Vencor Operating, Inc. (""; Operator, jointly and severally with Kindred and permitted successors and assignees of Operator and Kindred, "").
Effective Date
Lessor
Kindred
Operator
Tenant
 
 
A. Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership ("") and Tenant have previously entered into that certain Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 1 (as heretofore or hereafter amended, the "") dated as of April 20, 2001.
VRLP
Original Master Lease
 
B. Contemporaneously herewith, VRLP and Tenant entered into a Lease Severance and Amendment Agreement (as heretofore or hereafter amended, the "") dated as of the date hereof, pursuant to which they agreed to sever the Original Master Lease into two (2) leases.
Lease Severance Agreement
 
C. Pursuant to of the Original Master Lease and to the Lease Severance Agreement, VRLP and Tenant desire to enter into this Lease, as a "New Lease" (as defined in the Original Master Lease) under the Original Master Lease, with respect to the Leased Properties (as defined in below) referenced in this Lease.
Section 40.15
Section 1.1
 
D. Tenant is the tenant (or subtenant, in the case of ground leased properties) under the Original Master Lease and Tenant has not assigned the Original Master Lease wholly or in part.
 
E. Pursuant to the Bankruptcy Plan (as defined in below) and as further described in below, VRLP received New Common Stock (as defined in the Bankruptcy Plan) as additional rent under the Master Leases (as defined in below) and other leases deriving therefrom.
Section 2.1
Section 3.6
Section 2.1
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Lessor and Tenant hereby agree as follows:
 
 
. Effective as of the Effective Date, upon and subject to the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, Lessor hereby leases to Tenant, and Tenant hereby leases from Lessor, all of Lessor's rights and interest in and to each of the following:
Section 1.1
Leased Property; Term
 
(i) the tracts, pieces and parcels of land, as more particularly described in attached hereto (collectively, the ""; each parcel of Land described in , as amended from time to time, excluding, at any given time, those parcels, if any, which have been transferred to a New Lease pursuant to (including, without limitation, a New Lease created pursuant to hereof) together with the related property described in clauses (ii) through (iv) below, being referred to herein as a "" and all of such parcels of Land, together with all of such related property, being referred to herein collectively as the ""),
Exhibit A
Land
Exhibit A
Section 40.15
Section 22.7
Leased Property
Leased Properties
 
(ii) all buildings, structures, Fixtures (as hereinafter defined) and other improvements of every kind including, but not limited to, alleyways and connecting tunnels, sidewalks, utility pipes, conduits and lines (on-site and off-site), parking areas and roadways appurtenant to such buildings and structures presently situated upon the Land and Capital Alterations (collectively, the ""),
Leased Improvements
 
(iii) all easements, rights and appurtenances relating to the Land and the Leased Improvements, and
 
(iv) all permanently affixed equipment, machinery, fixtures, and other items of real and/or personal property, including all components thereof, now and hereafter located in, on or used in connection with, and permanently affixed to or incorporated into the Leased Improvements, including, without limitation, all furnaces, boilers, heaters, electrical equipment, heating, plumbing, lighting, ventilating, refrigerating, incineration, air and water pollution control, waste disposal, air-cooling and air-conditioning systems and apparatus, sprinkler systems and fire and theft protection equipment, and built-in oxygen and vacuum systems, all of which to the greatest extent permitted by law, are hereby deemed by the parties hereto to constitute real estate, together with all replacements, modifications, alterations and additions thereto, but specifically excluding all items included within the category of Tenant's Personal Property as defined in below (collectively the ""),
Article II
Fixtures
 
SUBJECT, HOWEVER, to the Permitted Encumbrances (as defined in hereof).
Section 2.1
 
. To have and to hold for (1) a fixed term (the "") commencing on the Effective Date and ending at midnight on the Expiration Date set forth in opposite the applicable Leased Property and (2) the Extended Terms provided for in , unless this Lease is sooner terminated as hereinafter provided.
Section 1.2
Term
Fixed Term
Exhibit B
Article XIX
 
.
Section 1.3
Original Master Lease
 
This Lease shall govern and control as to all events, acts, omissions, liabilities and obligations relating to the Leased Properties first occurring, arising or accruing from and after the Effective Date.
Section 1.3.1
 
Without limitation of the other provisions of this or the provisions of hereof, the terms of the Original Master Lease shall continue to govern and control as to all events, acts, omissions, liabilities and obligations occurring, arising and
Section 1.3.2
Section 1.3
Section 1.4
 
accruing prior to the Effective Date, provided that, in the event that (1) prior to the Effective Date, (a) a default or breach of the terms of the Original Master Lease, as the same affects the Leased Properties under this Lease, shall have occurred, (b) any act, event or omission to act shall have occurred, or circumstance shall have arisen, relative to any Legal Requirement, Authorization, Permitted Encumbrance or Superior Lease (each as defined in below) affecting any of the Leased Properties that is or is potentially adverse to Lessor or Tenant, or (c) any casualty or condemnation shall have occurred relative to any of the Leased Properties and (2) as of the Effective Date, such default or breach remains uncured or such act, event, omission to act or circumstance continues to be adverse or potentially adverse to Lessor or Tenant or such casualty or condemnation has not been fully repaired and restored with all claims on account thereof finally settled and paid and with the affected Leased Property re-opened for use in accordance with its Primary Intended Use (as defined in hereof) and the other provisions of this Lease, the provisions of this Lease relative to cure periods, whether and when an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred, rights and remedies on account of any breach or default or Event of Default, contest rights, Lease enforcement rights, casualty, condemnation, insurance and indemnification shall govern and control. Subject to the foregoing, (x) any breach or default that occurs, arises or accrues under the Original Master Lease prior to the Effective Date and is not cured prior to such date is, and shall be deemed to be, a breach or default under this Lease, to which the cure periods, rights and remedies and other provisions of this Lease referenced in the preceding sentence shall be applicable, unless such breach or default is specifically waived and released under the terms of of the Original Master Lease, and (y) with respect to any breach or default described in subsection (x) above that is not specifically waived and released under of the Original Master Lease, although the cure periods, rights and remedies and other provisions of this Lease referenced in the preceding sentence shall be applicable, the portion of any cure period under the Original Master Lease that has elapsed as of the Effective Date shall be counted in determining whether and when the applicable cure period under this Lease has expired (for example, if (A) a breach or default occurs under the Original Master Lease prior to the Effective Date, (B) such breach or default remains uncured as of the Effective Date and is not specifically waived and released under the terms of of the Original Master Lease, (C) Tenant receives from the lessor under the Original Master Lease a written notice of default relative thereto prior to the Effective Date, and (D) by the terms of this Lease, for a breach or default of the nature assumed in this example a cure period of thirty (30) days following Tenant's receipt of written notice of default is allowed prior to such breach or default becoming an Event of Default under this Lease, then, as to such breach or default, an Event of Default shall occur if such breach or default is not cured on or prior to the thirtieth (30th) day following Tenant's receipt of the aforesaid notice of default, notwithstanding that such notice was received prior to the Effective Date).
Section 2.1
Section 7.2.2
Section 1.3.4
Section 1.3.4
Section 1.3.4
 
In the event that (1) prior to the Effective Date, (a) a default or breach of the terms of the Original Master Lease, as the same affects the Leased Properties under this Lease, shall have occurred, (b) any act, event or omission to act shall have occurred, or circumstances shall have arisen, relative to any Legal Requirement, Authorization, Permitted Encumbrance or Superior Lease (each as defined in below) affecting any of the Leased Properties that is or is potentially adverse to Lessor or Tenant, or (c) any casualty or condemnation shall have occurred relative to any of the Leased Properties and (2) prior to the Effective Date, such default or breach has been cured or such act, event, omission to act or circumstance is no longer adverse or potentially adverse to Lessor or Tenant or such casualty or
Section 1.3.2.1
Section 2.1
 
condemnation has been fully repaired and restored with all claims on account thereof finally settled and paid and with the affected Leased Property re-opened for use in accordance with its Primary Intended Use and the other provisions of this Lease, then no such default or breach or other circumstance or matter described in the foregoing subsections (a), (b) and (c) shall constitute an Event of Default under this Lease, and neither party shall bring a claim against the other in respect of any such default, breach, circumstance or matter, whether hereunder or under the Original Master Lease. Notwithstanding the foregoing, subject to above, neither party waives or releases, and neither party shall be precluded from exercising, any rights or remedies (including, without limitation, default rights and remedies) that it may have hereunder or under the Original Master Lease (i) on account of any non-performance by the other party of indemnification obligations that such other party has hereunder or under the Original Master Lease relative to any default, breach, act, event, omission to act, circumstance, casualty or condemnation referenced in subsection (a), (b), or (c) above or (ii) if, and insofar as, the condition described in subsection (2) above is not, or by reason of events occurring after the Effective Date is shown to have not been, cured, repaired, restored, re-opened or otherwise satisfied.
Section 1.3.2
 
Each party hereto represents and warrants to the other party hereto that, as of February 23, 2001, such representing party had no knowledge of any uncured breaches by it of, or uncured defaults by it under, the Original Master Lease or the 1998 Master Lease, in each case as either of the same affects the Leased Properties under this Lease, other than the breaches and defaults disclosed by VRLP or Tenant, as applicable, in the portion of subpart A of of the Original Master Lease that is applicable to it.
Section 1.3.3
Schedule 1.3
 
Lessor represents and warrants to Tenant that, as of February 23, 2001, Lessor's Management Group (as defined below) had no Actual Knowledge (as defined below) of any Section 1.3.3.1 Claim (as defined below) (1) involving any act or omission by Tenant that constituted a breach or default of the 1998 Master Lease by Tenant, and affecting any of the Leased Properties under this Lease, that was continuing as of February 23, 2001, and (2) of which the lessor under the Original Master Lease had not, on or prior to February 23, 2001, given Tenant written notice (which notice is not required to have been given in accordance with the formalities of below) or of which, on or prior to February 23, 2001, Tenant had not obtained actual knowledge or notice (as opposed to, and not including, constructive, imputed, assumed or other knowledge or notice). As used in this , (a) the term "" shall mean Debra A. Cafaro, T. Richard Riney and John C. Thompson, (b) the term "" shall mean actual knowledge (as opposed to, and not including, constructive, imputed, assumed or other knowledge, and without any obligation or duty of any kind to investigate or otherwise make inquiry) first obtained on or after September 13, 1999 and on or prior to February 23, 2001, and (c) the term "" shall mean a written claim that (x) is made to the lessor under the Original Master Lease by any governmental agency or private party that is not an Affiliate of Tenant, (y) is based upon an act or omission of Tenant that constitutes a breach or default by Tenant of the 1998 Master Lease that affects any of the Leased Properties under this Lease, and (z) describes the occurrence of an event that constitutes such a breach or default by Tenant (other than a breach or default in the performance of Tenant's obligations relative to payment of real estate taxes and assessments relating to any of the Leased Properties and/or payment of any amounts owed on account of work performed at, or materials provided to, any Leased Property, it being agreed that claims
Section 1.3.3.1
Section 34.1
Section 1.3.3.1
Lessor's Management Group
Actual Knowledge
Section 1.3.3.1 Claim
 
based on any such breach or default by Tenant shall in no event be considered a "Section 1.3.3.1 Claim" and that no representation or warranty is made in this regarding any breach or default of the nature referenced in this parenthetical clause). Lessor and Tenant further agree that (i) Tenant shall have no rights or remedies against Lessor on account of any breach of the representation and warranty of Lessor contained in this other than the rights and remedies set forth in subsection (ii) below and (ii) any act or omission by Tenant that satisfies the terms of subsections (1) and (2) above shall not constitute an Event of Default under the Original Master Lease or the 1998 Master Lease or this Lease unless and until, and shall constitute such an Event of Default only if, an Event of Default shall occur on account of Tenant's failure (A) to perform its indemnification obligations under the Original Master Lease or the 1998 Master Lease or this Lease relative to any such act or omission and (B) to cure any such indemnification non-performance within the cure period applicable to such indemnification non-performance. Tenant's aforesaid indemnification obligations shall remain enforceable by Lessor, notwithstanding any breach by Lessor of its representation and warranty contained in this and without any limitation on, or impairment of, such indemnification rights due to any such breach by Lessor.
Section 1.3.3.1
Section 1.3.3.1
Section 1.3.3.1
 
Each of the parties hereto hereby waives and releases any and all rights and claims it may have against the other party hereto for, on account of, or in connection with, any breach or default by such other party of or under the Original Master Lease or this Lease and which occurred prior to April 20, 2001 (including those matters set forth on subpart A of of the Original Master Lease, but subject to subpart B of of the Original Master Lease and the other terms and provisions of this ), provided, however, that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this or elsewhere in this , (1) Tenant agrees that it has no defenses or rights of deduction, set-off or abatement as to any of its obligations hereunder or under the Original Master Lease, including, without limitation, payment of Rent, and (2) without limitation of the foregoing subsection (1), the parties are not waiving or releasing, and are expressly preserving, (a) any and all rights and claims with respect to any breach or default that was continuing as of April 20, 2001 (other than rights and claims with respect to any such continuing breach that is identified in subpart B of of the Original Master Lease as a breach or default that is waived and released, and then only to the extent set forth in such subpart B and subject to subsection (e) below and to the last two sentences of above), and (b) any and all rights and claims with respect to any breach or default that is identified in subpart B of of the Original Master Lease as a breach or default that is not waived or released, and (c) any and all rights and claims with respect to any breach or default that arises on account of actions or omissions to act occurring after February 23, 2001 and which continues after April 20, 2001, and (d) subject to above, any and all rights and claims with respect to any breach or default of the representations, warranties and agreements contained in above, and (e) any and all rights and claims based upon non-performance of indemnification obligations hereunder or under the Original Master Lease relative to any breach or default that is waived and released pursuant to of the Original Master Lease or to the acts, events, omissions to act or other circumstances on account of which any such waived and released breach or default arose. Subject to subsection (e) above and to the last two (2) sentences of above, each party agrees that at no time in the future shall it bring a claim based on a breach or default that has been waived or released pursuant to of the Original Master Lease. Lessor further agrees that, because Tenant paid all "Monthly Payments," as defined in the Rent
Section 1.3.4
Schedule 1.3
Schedule 1.3
Section 1.3
Section 1.3.4
Section 1.3
Schedule 1.3
Section 1.3.3.1
Schedule 1.3
Section 1.3.3.1
Section 1.3.3
Section 1.3
Section 1.3.3.1
Section 1.3
 
Stipulation, for the period from February 24, 2001 through April 20, 2001, Lessor waives any "Agreement Rent Claim," as defined in the Rent Stipulation, for such period.
 
Nothing contained in this shall limit or impair Ventas, Inc.'s or Tenant's rights, duties and obligations under the Indemnity Agreement (as defined in below).
Section 1.3.5
Section 1.3
Section 2.1
 
. This Lease constitutes a New Lease created pursuant to of the Original Master Lease. Subject to of such predecessor lease and without limitation of and subject to the provisions of , , and of this Lease, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in of this Lease:
Section 1.4
Additional Provisions Regarding Predecessor Lease
Section 40.15
Section 22.7(g)
Sections 16.10
19.1
25.1.11
40.18
Section 1.3
 
(a) Tenant under this Lease shall be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of all duties, obligations and liabilities arising under this Lease, insofar as they relate to the Leased Property(ies) subject to this Lease, that were not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to the Effective Date (and Tenant, in its capacity as the tenant under such predecessor lease, shall also be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of the aforesaid duties, obligations and liabilities not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to the Effective Date); and
 
(b) The tenant under this Lease, in its capacity as the tenant under this Lease, shall not be responsible for the payment, performance or satisfaction of any duties, obligations and liabilities of the tenant under such predecessor lease, in its capacity as the tenant under such predecessor lease, arising after the Effective Date (Tenant acknowledges, however, that, because Tenant is both the tenant under this Lease and under such predecessor lease as of the Effective Date, Tenant, as a legal entity, is responsible for such duties, obligations and liabilities under such predecessor lease).
 
 
. For all purposes of this Lease, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires, (i) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular, (ii) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as at the time applicable, (iii) all references in this Lease to designated "Articles," "Sections" and other subdivisions are to the designated Articles, Sections and other subdivisions of this Lease and (iv) the words "herein," hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Lease as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision:
Section 2.1
Definitions
 
"": As defined in .
Actual Knowledge
Section 1.3.3.1
 
"": As defined in .
Additional Charges
Article III
 
"": Base Patient Revenues from the Leased Properties, adjusted as follows. Without limitation of hereof, if a particular Facility or Facilities within the Leased Properties, for any period after December 31, 1999, for any reason is
Adjusted Base Patient Revenues
Section 7.2.3
 
closed, the Base Patient Revenues that correspond to any such closed Facility or Facilities (and, in the case of a partial year closure, the Base Patient Revenues that correspond to any such closed Facility or Facilities for the days or months such Facility or Facilities were closed) shall be excluded from Base Patient Revenues in order to arrive at "Adjusted Base Patient Revenues."
 
"": means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling (including, but not limited to, all partners, directors, officers and members of such Person), controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with any such Person. A Person shall be deemed to control a corporation, a partnership, a trust, or a limited liability company if such Person possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, through the ownership of voting securities, partnership interests or other equity interests.
Affiliate
 
"": As defined in .
Ancillary Agreement
Section 25.1.7
 
"": As defined in .
Appraisal Notice
Section 35.2
 
"": As defined in .
Arbitration Question
Section 22.6(c)
 
"": As defined in .
Authorizations
Section 40.3
 
"": As defined in .
Award
Article XV
 
"": That certain Fourth Amended Joint Plan Of Reorganization of Vencor, Inc. And Affiliated Debtors Under Chapter 11 Of The Bankruptcy Code dated as of December 14, 2000, filed on December 14, 2000 at docket no. 4031 in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Delaware in the cases known as In re: Vencor, Inc., et al., Case Nos. 99-3199 (MFW) through 99-3327 (MFW), as confirmed by such Bankruptcy Court by Order dated March 16, 2001, filed on March 16, 2001 at docket no. 5975.
Bankruptcy Plan
 
"": Patient Revenues from the Leased Properties (adjusted, in amounts agreed upon by Lessor and Tenant, relative to so-called "Vencare programs", but which adjustment shall not otherwise be made in the calculation of "Patient Revenues") for the twelve (12) month period ending on December 31, 1999, as set forth on attached hereto and incorporated herein.
Base Patient Revenues
Schedule 2.1A
 
"": (a) For the period from the Effective Date through April 30, 2005, rent at an annual rate equal to Four Million Two Hundred Forty Three Thousand Nine Hundred Fifty Two and 88/100 Dollars ($4,243,952.88) per annum, and (b) for a particular Rent Calculation Year thereafter, an annual rental amount equal to the sum of (i) the Prior Period Base Rent, plus (ii) if the Patient Revenues for the calendar year preceding the commencement of such Rent Calculation Year equaled or exceeded seventy-five percent (75%) of the Adjusted Base Patient Revenues, three and one-half percent (3.5%) of the Prior Period Base Rent. Notwithstanding the foregoing, (1) in the event Lessor exercises the Reset Option referenced in hereof, then, for periods from and after the Reset Date, "Base Rent" shall mean the Fair Market Rental applicable to such period, as determined pursuant to hereof and including any escalations that are part of the Fair Market Rental as so determined, and (2) exercise of the Reset Option shall not limit the applicability of and hereof.
Base Rent
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
Sections 19.2
19.3
 
"": Each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which national banks in the City of New York, New York are authorized, or obligated, by law or executive order, to close.
Business Day
 
"": With respect to any Leased Property: (i) the addition of one or more new buildings, or (ii) the annexation of one or more additional structures to any portion of any of the Leased Improvements on such Leased Property, or (iii) the material expansion or contraction of the existing improvements on such Leased Property, or (iv) any alteration or modification affecting the foundation, floor slab, roof or roof structure, curtain wall, structural columns, beams or shafts or other structural components of any of the Leased Improvements on such Leased Property (other than any alterations or modifications affecting any of such components that do not in any material respect adversely affect the design, efficacy and/or quality of any such component), or (v) any alteration or modification affecting any of the electrical, plumbing, life safety, heating, ventilating, air conditioning or other operating systems serving any of the Leased Improvements on such Leased Property (other than any alterations or modifications affecting any of such systems that do not in any material respect adversely affect the design, operating capacity, efficiency and/or quality of any such system), or (vi) any alterations or modifications to a Leased Property, the cost of which (excluding cosmetic refurbishing alterations or modifications, such as painting, wallpapering or carpeting), when taken together with all other alterations and modifications (excluding cosmetic refurbishing alterations or modifications) performed on such Leased Property in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding the subject alterations or modifications, would exceed One Million Dollars ($1,000,000) (in the case of alterations or modifications to hospital facilities) or Five Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000) (in the case of alterations or modifications to nursing center facilities or any other facility not operated as a hospital). "Capital Alterations" shall include, without limitation, (1) the construction of a new wing or new story on a Leased Property, (2) the repair, replacement, restoration, remodeling or rebuilding of the existing improvements on a Leased Property or any portion thereof, where the purpose and effect of such work is to provide a functionally new facility needed to provide services not previously offered, and (3) any expansion, construction, renovation or conversion in order to increase the bed capacity of the Facility located on a Leased Property, to change the purpose for which such beds are utilized or to improve materially the quality of such Facility.
Capital Alterations
 
"": The term "Capital Alterations Cost" shall mean the cost of any Capital Alteration proposed to be made by Tenant at a Leased Property, whether or not paid for by Tenant or Lessor. Such cost shall include (a) the cost of construction of the Capital Alterations (including site preparation and improvement, materials, labor, supervision, and certain related design, engineering and architectural services), the cost of any fixtures, the cost of construction financing and miscellaneous costs approved by Lessor, (b) if agreed to by Lessor in writing, in advance, the cost of any land contiguous to a Leased Property that is (1) to become part of such Leased Property and (2) is purchased for the purpose of placing thereon the Capital Alterations or any portion thereof or of providing means of access to such Capital Alterations or any existing improvements on such Leased Property or of providing parking facilities for such Capital Alterations or such existing improvements, including the cost of surveying the same, (c) the cost of insurance, real estate taxes, water and sewage charges and other carrying charges for such Capital Alterations during construction, (d) the cost of title insurance, (e) reasonable fees and expenses of legal counsel, (f) filing, registration and recording taxes and fees, (g)
Capital Alterations Cost
 
documentary stamp taxes, if any, and (h) all reasonable costs and expenses of Lessor and Tenant and, if agreed to in advance by Lessor, any Lending Institution which has committed to finance the Capital Alterations, including, but not limited to, (i) the reasonable fees and expenses of their respective legal counsel, (ii) all printing expenses, (iii) the amount of any filing, registration and recording taxes and fees, (iv) documentary stamp or transfer taxes, if any, (v) title insurance charges and appraisal fees, if any, (vi) rating agency fees, if any, and (vii) commitment fees, if any, charged by any Lending Institution advancing or offering to advance any portion of the financing for such Capital Alterations.
 
"": As defined in .
Captive Insurance Company
Section 26.1(1)
 
"": The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"": The Leased Properties from time to time under this Lease, together with the leased properties from time to time under the other Combined Leases.
Combined Leased Properties
 
"": The following that are from time to time in existence: this Lease, the Master Leases and any New Lease entered into pursuant to of this Lease (including, without limitation, any Separate Lease entered into pursuant to the terms of hereof) or the corresponding sections of any of the Master Leases or of any New Lease(s) derived, directly or indirectly, from any of the Master Leases.
Combined Leases
Section 40.15
Section 22.7
 
"": As to the applicable Leased Property, the date set forth opposite such Leased Property in the column "Commencement Date" on attached hereto.
Commencement Date
Exhibit B
 
"": As defined in .
Condemnation; Condemnor
Article XV
 
"": As to any one or more of the Combined Leased Properties, the ratio of the EBITDARM generated by such Combined Leased Property(ies) to Base Rent allocable thereto under the applicable Combined Leases, in each case for the four (4) full calendar quarters ending not less than sixty (60) days prior to the occurrence of a Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction, in the case of .
Coverage Ratio
Section 16.10.3.1
 
"": As defined in .
Date of Taking
Article XV
 
"": As defined in .
Disclosing Party
Section 40.14
 
"": As defined in .
Disclosure Date
Section 40.14
 
"": As defined in .
Disclosure Law
Section 40.14
 
"": As defined in .
Disclosure Notice
Section 40.14
 
"": As defined in .
Disclosure Notification Period
Section 40.14
 
"": As to any particular Leased Property or Leased Properties, or any hospital, nursing center or other facility not covered by this Lease (regardless of the identity of the landlord or tenant of any such other facility) for a particular period, the earnings before interest,
EBITDAR
 
taxes, depreciation, amortization and rent, attributable to such Leased Property or Leased Properties or such other facility, as applicable, for such period, as determined in accordance with the customary methods, procedures and accounting principles from time to time used in the health care industry.
 
"": As to any particular Leased Property or Leased Properties, or any hospital, nursing center or other facility not covered by this Lease (regardless of the identity of the landlord or tenant of any such other facility) for a particular period, the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization, rent and management fees, attributable to such Leased Property or Leased Properties or such other facility, as applicable, for such period, as determined in accordance with the customary methods, procedures and accounting principles from time to time used in the health care industry.
EBITDARM
 
"": As defined in the preamble hereof.
Effective Date
 
"": As defined in .
Encumbrance
Article XXXVIII
 
"": As defined in .
Event of Default
Article XVI
 
"": Those ground leases, if any, listed on attached hereto and made a part hereof, as the same may be amended or modified in writing after the Effective Date with the written consent of Lessor and Tenant, each acting in its sole discretion.
Existing Ground Leases
Schedule 2.1C
 
"": The documents evidencing and securing the Exit Financing (as defined in the Bankruptcy Plan), and any amendment, restatement, modification, refinancing or replacement thereof from time to time following April 20, 2001.
Exit Facility Documents
 
"": As defined in .
Expired/Terminated Properties
Section 40.16
 
"": As defined in .
Extended Term
Article XIX
 
"": The facility being operated or proposed to be operated on the applicable Leased Property.
Facility
 
"": An Event of Default that relates directly to one or more of the Leased Properties and/or the Facilities operated thereon (such as, for example only and without limitation, an Event of Default arising from a failure to maintain or repair, or to operate for the Primary Intended Use, or to maintain the required Authorizations for, one or more of the Facilities), as opposed to an Event of Default that, by its nature, does not relate directly to any of the Leased Properties or Facilities (such as, for example only and without limitation, an Event of Default arising from a breach of ).
Facility Default
Section 3.1(a)
 
"": As defined in .
Facility Mortgage
Article XIII
 
"": As defined in .
Facility Mortgagee
Article XIII
 
"": As defined in .
Facility Termination
Section 40.3
 
": The Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) of the applicable Leased Property (including all Capital Alterations), less, if Tenant has performed and financed a Capital Alteration to add a new building(s) to such Leased Property, the Fair Market Value of such Leased Property determined as if any such new building(s) had not been constructed.
Fair Market Added Value
 
"": The annual amount per annum that a willing tenant would pay, and a willing landlord would accept, at arm's length, for leasing of the Leased Properties (or, if applicable, any one or more, but less than all, of the Leased Properties) for the period of the Term (including, without limitation, any Extended Terms) remaining from and after the date as of which the Fair Market Rental is being determined (e.g. as of the Reset Date, in the case of , and as of the commencement of an Extended Term, in the case of and ). The Fair Market Rental may include therein such escalations of rent as would be paid by such a tenant, and accepted by such a landlord, as part of an arm's length transaction entered into as of the aforesaid Fair Market Rental determination date; , , that, in addition to such other market factors as may be applicable in determining the Fair Market Rental, the Fair Market Rental shall be determined on the basis, and on the assumptions, that (a) the Fair Market Rental may not include therein any rent, or method of rent calculation, that would adversely affect any landlord by virtue of it being a real estate investment trust or the ability of any such landlord to satisfy the requirements for maintaining its status as a real estate investment trust (and, without limitation of the foregoing, the Fair Market Rental shall not include any rent that would fail to qualify as "rents from real property" for purposes of Section 856(d) of the Code), (b) the Fair Market Rental amount is to be paid absolutely net to the aforesaid landlord, without any rights of deduction, set-off or abatement, (c) all of the Leased Properties as to which the Fair Market Rental is being determined are in good condition and repair (given their respective ages and prevailing health care industry standards with respect to what is considered good condition and repair), without any deferred maintenance (but allowing for ordinary wear and tear), are in material compliance with any and all applicable laws, codes, ordinances and regulations and have in full force and effect, for the benefit of the aforesaid tenant, the Facilities and the Leased Properties, any and all necessary or appropriate material Authorizations for use thereof in accordance with the respective Primary Intended Uses applicable thereto, (d) the aforesaid tenant has complied, and shall be required to comply, with the requirements of this Lease, including, without limitation, hereof, (e) the respective replacement costs of the Leased Properties as to which Fair Market Rental is being determined are not determinative of the Fair Market Rental of such Leased Properties, and (f) the aforesaid tenant shall have available to it, with respect to each Leased Property as to which the Fair Market Rental is being determined, such remaining Term as then remains, and such number of Extended Terms as then remain unexercised, with respect to such Leased Property under the terms of this Lease. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Lease, "Fair Market Rental" shall take into account, for each of the applicable Leased Properties, the market conditions, market levels of EBITDARM, the ratio of market levels of EBITDARM to market levels of rent, and the actual levels of EBITDARM at the applicable Leased Properties, in each case that are prevailing or measured, as applicable, as of the date as of which the Fair Market Rental is being determined, as well as historical levels of EBITDARM at the applicable Leased Properties (including the EBITDARM of the Leased Properties measured as of April 20, 2001).
Fair Market Rental
Section 3.2
Sections 19.2
19.3
provided
however
Article XXXVI
 
"": The price that a willing buyer not compelled to buy would pay a willing seller not compelled to sell for the applicable Leased Property, including all Capital Alterations, and (a) assuming the same is unencumbered by this Lease, (b) determined in accordance with the appraisal procedures set forth in or in such other manner as shall be mutually acceptable to Lessor and Tenant, and (c) not taking into account any reduction in value resulting from any indebtedness to which such Leased Property is subject except as expressly provided hereinbelow. In determining such Fair Market Value the positive or negative effect on the value of the Leased Property attributable to the interest rate, amortization schedule, maturity date, prepayment penalty and other terms and conditions of any encumbrance which is not removed at or prior to the closing of the transaction as to which such Fair Market Value determination is being made shall be taken into account.
Fair Market Value
Article XXXV
 
"": The Fair Market Value of the Leased Property less the Fair Market Added Value.
Fair Market Value Purchase Price
 
"": The twelve (12) month period from January 1 to December 31.
Fiscal Year
 
"": As defined in .
Final Appraiser
Section 35.2
 
"": As defined in .
Fixed Term
Article I
 
"": As defined in .
Fixtures
Article I
 
"": Each subtenant that is an Affiliate of Tenant to which a Leased Property or any portion thereof is subleased, including, without limitation, as of the Effective Date, the Affiliates of Tenant that are referenced on attached hereto and incorporated herein.
Guarantor
Schedule 40.12
 
"": Shall mean for each applicable Leased Property, collectively, all taxes (including, without limitation, all taxes imposed under the laws of the State, as such laws may be amended from time to time, and all ad valorem, sales and use, single business, gross receipts, transaction privilege, rent or similar taxes as the same relate to or are imposed upon any rents from the applicable Leased Property or upon Tenant or its business conducted upon the applicable Leased Property, but excluding any tax based on the net income or net profit of Lessor derived from any such rents), assessments (including, without limitation, all assessments for public improvements or benefits, whether or not commenced or completed prior to the date hereof and whether or not to be completed within the Term), ground rents arising under any of the Existing Ground Leases, water, sewer or other rents and charges, excises, tax levies, fees (including, without limitation, license, permit, inspection, authorization and similar fees), and all other governmental charges, in each case whether general or special, ordinary or extraordinary, or foreseen or unforeseen, of every character in respect of the applicable Leased Property or any rents therefrom or the business conducted thereon by Tenant (including all interest and penalties thereon due to any failure in payment by Tenant), which at any time prior to, during or in respect of the Term hereof may be assessed or imposed on or in respect of or be a lien upon (a) Lessor or Lessor's interest in such Leased Property, (b) such Leased Property or any part thereof or any rent therefrom or any estate, right, title or interest therein, or (c) any occupancy, operation, use or possession of, or sales from, an activity conducted on, or in connection with such Leased
Impositions
 
Property or the leasing or use of such Leased Property or any part thereof by Tenant; provided, however, nothing contained in this Lease shall be construed to require Tenant to pay (1) any tax based on net income (whether denominated as a franchise or capital stock or other tax) imposed on Lessor or any other person or (2) any transfer, or net revenue tax of Lessor or any other person or (3) any tax imposed with respect to the sale, exchange or other disposition by Lessor of the applicable Leased Property or the proceeds thereof, except to the extent that any tax, assessment, tax levy or charge, which Tenant is obligated to pay pursuant to the preceding provisions of this definition and which is in effect at any time during the Term hereof is totally or partially repealed, and a tax, assessment, tax levy or charge set forth in clause (1) or (2) is levied, assessed or imposed expressly in lieu thereof.
 
"": That certain Agreement of Indemnity-Third Party Leases, dated as of April 30, 1998, from Tenant and its Affiliates to Ventas, Inc., which Indemnity Agreement remains in full force and effect in accordance with its terms and is hereby reaffirmed and ratified.
Indemnity Agreement
 
"": All terms of any insurance policy required by this Lease with respect to the applicable Leased Property and all requirements of the issuer of any such policy.
Insurance Requirements
 
"": As defined in the preamble hereof.
Kindred
 
"": As defined in .
Land
Article I
 
"": As defined in the preamble hereof.
Lease
 
"": A guaranty of certain obligations of Tenant under this Lease executed and delivered by each Guarantor substantially in the form of annexed hereto.
Lease Guaranty
Exhibit G
 
"": shall mean May 1 through April 30 of each year of the Term.
Lease Year
 
""; ""; "": Each as defined in .
Leased Improvements
Leased Property
Leased Properties
Section 1.1
 
"": As defined in .
Leasehold Mortgage
Section 22.2(a)
 
"": As defined in .
Leasehold Mortgagee
Section 22.2(b)
 
"": As to the applicable Leased Property, all federal, state, county, parish, municipal and other governmental statutes, laws, rules, orders, regulations, ordinances, judgments, decrees and injunctions affecting such Leased Property or the maintenance, construction, use, operation or alteration thereof, whether now or hereafter enacted and in force, including, without limitation, (i) any licensure requirements, certification requirements under applicable federal and/or state cost reimbursement programs, including Medicare and Medicaid (provided the applicable Facility participates in such reimbursement), building codes and zoning regulations, (ii) any which may (x) require repairs, modifications or alterations in or to such Leased Property or (y) in any way adversely affect the use and enjoyment thereof, and (iii) all permits, licenses, certificates of need, authorizations and regulations necessary to operate such Leased Property for its Primary Intended Use.
Legal Requirements
 
"": Any insurance company, federally insured commercial or savings bank, national banking association, savings and loan association, credit union, employees' welfare, pension or retirement fund or system, corporate profit sharing or pension trust, college or university, endowment fund, real estate investment trust, or other institutional lender or financial enterprise, including, without limitation, any corporation qualified to be treated for federal tax purposes as a real estate investment trust, having a net worth of at least $50,000,000 acting on its own behalf or as agent on behalf of other Lending Institutions.
Lending Institution
 
"": Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership and its successors and assigns.
Lessor
 
"": As defined in .
Lessor's Management Group
Section 1.3.3.1
 
"": On any day, the offered rate per annum for Dollar deposits in the London Interbank Offered Market for contracts with a three-month term, as reported in on the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding such day. If shall cease to report such offered rate, then the LIBO Rate, on any day, shall be the aforesaid offered rate per annum as of the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding such day, determined by Citibank, N.A., or any successor thereof, as the aforesaid offered rate per annum as of such last Business Day. If the aforesaid offered rate is determined by reference to , the same shall be based upon the effective rate per annum for the aforesaid contracts entered into such number of days prior to the day for which the aforesaid offered rate is being reported by as is used by . If the aforesaid offered rate is determined based upon the rate determined by Citibank, N.A., or any successor thereof, the same shall be based upon the effective rate per annum for the aforesaid contracts entered into as of approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the day for which the aforesaid offered rate is being determined by Citibank, N.A., or any successor thereof.
LIBO Rate
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
The Wall Street Journal
 
"": All costs reasonably incurred by Lessor in connection with the enforcement of any provision of this Lease and/or in connection with any third-party claim against Lessor or any Leased Property arising on account of or in connection with any default or Event of Default hereunder by Tenant, including, without limitation, costs reasonably incurred by Lessor in investigating, settling and/or prosecuting claims and for attorney's and legal assistant fees and expenses, court costs and fees and consultant and witness fees and expenses.
Litigation Costs
 
"": The Leased Properties under the Original Master Lease as of April 20, 2001.
Master Lease Leased Properties
 
"": Collectively, all of those certain leases listed in attached hereto.
Master Leases
Exhibit E
 
"": A state program of medical aid established under Title XIX of the Social Security Act of 1965, as amended, and any successor statute thereto and any successor programs.
Medicaid
 
"": The program of medical care benefits provided under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act of 1965, as amended, and any successor statute thereto and any successor programs thereto.
Medicare
 
"": As defined in .
New Lease
Section 40.15
 
"": The "Original Master Lease," as referenced and defined in the Original Master Lease.
1998 Master Lease
 
"": As defined in .
1998 Plan of Reorganization
Section 16.11
 
"": As defined in .
Non-Capital Alterations
Section 10.4
 
"": A certificate of Tenant signed by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, any vice president, the secretary, the treasurer, the chief operating officer, the chief financial officer, the general counsel or any other officer authorized to so sign by the board of directors or by-laws of Tenant, or the general partner of Tenant or the managing member of Tenant, as applicable, or any other person whose power and authority to act has been authorized by delegation in writing by any person duly authorized to make such delegation of authority.
Officer's Certificate
 
"": As defined in the preamble hereof.
Operator
 
"": As defined in the recitals hereto.
Original Master Lease
 
"": On any date, a rate equal to 2% per annum above the Prime Rate, but in no event greater than the maximum rate then permitted under applicable law. Interest at the aforesaid rates shall be determined for actual days elapsed based upon a 360 day year.
Overdue Rate
 
"": As defined in .
Paragraph Seven Notification Period
Section 40.14
 
"": As defined in .
Partial Expiration/Termination Date
Section 40.16
 
"": As defined in .
Partial Expiration/Termination Days
Section 40.16
 
"": Revenues generated from the sale of goods or services at or through the Leased Properties, whether by Tenant or any subtenant or licensee of Tenant, or any other party, which revenues are primarily derived from services provided to patients (including, without limitation, revenues received or receivable for the use of or otherwise by reason of all rooms, beds and other facilities provided, meals served, services performed or goods sold at the Leased Properties, but excluding revenues received by Tenant as rent or other consideration from a permitted assignment of this Lease or any part thereof or a permitted sublease of any Leased Property(ies) or any part thereof), and which revenues shall be measured and computed using substantially the same methodology as during the period between April 30, 1998 and April 20, 2001 and net of contractual adjustments of governmental and other third party payors.
Patient Revenues
 
"": Any due date for the payment of the installments of any component of Rent payable under this Lease.
Payment Date
 
"": As defined in .
Permissible Reduction Percentage
Section 16.1
 
"": Any Capital Alteration or Non-Capital Alteration to a Facility or Leased Property that is permitted pursuant to the terms of this Lease.
Permitted Alteration
 
"": (a) all easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, agreements and other matters with respect to the Leased Properties that are of record as of the Commencement Date; (b) all easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, agreements and other matters with respect to the Leased Properties, whether or not of record, that are executed by Tenant or approved or consented to in writing by Tenant; (c) any easement or utility agreement entered into by Lessor, or the lessor under the Original Master Lease, with respect to a Leased Property(ies) after April 20, 2001, subject to Tenant's consent, in its sole discretion; (d) any agreement required pursuant to any Legal Requirement entered into by Lessor, or the lessor under the Original Master Lease, with respect to a Leased Property(ies) after April 20, 2001, subject to Tenant's consent, not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; (e) any matter affecting title to the Leased Properties or any portion thereof that is permitted under or ; and (f) any other matters affecting title to the Leased Properties or any portion thereof caused by Tenant or its assignees or sublessees or their respective agents or employees, , , that, for purposes of below, "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Superior Lease (other than the Existing Ground Leases), any Facility Mortgage or other lien created by Lessor or its agents or employees or any Leasehold Mortgage and, for purposes of below, "Permitted Encumbrances" shall not include any Superior Lease, any Facility Mortgage or other lien created by Lessor or its agents or employees or any Leasehold Mortgage.
Permitted Encumbrances
Section 7.3
Section 9.2
provided
however
Section 24.1
Section 8.3
 
"": Any individual, sole proprietorship, corporation, general partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company or partnership, joint venture, association, joint stock company, bank, trust, estate, unincorporated organization, any federal, state, county, or municipal government (or agency or political subdivision thereof), endowment fund or other form of entity.
Person
 
"": As defined in .
Plans and Specifications
Section 10.1
 
"": As defined in .
Previous Period Unreported Claims
Section 13.1.4
 
"": As defined in .
Primary Intended Use
Section 7.2.2
 
"": On any date, a rate equal to the annual rate on such date announced by Citibank, N.A., or any successor thereof, to be its prime rate.
Prime Rate
 
"": The Base Rent that was in effect immediately prior to the commencement of the Rent Calculation Year containing such date.
Prior Period Base Rent
 
"": As defined in .
Property Transfer Date
Section 40.15
 
"": As defined in .
Purchase Option EBITDAR
Section 16.12.5
 
"": As defined in .
Qualified Arbitrator
Section 22.6(c)
 
"": As defined in .
Qualified Successor
Section 40.3
 
"": As defined in .
Recipient
Section 40.14
 
"": As defined in .
Registration Rights Agreement
Section 40.14
 
"": As defined in .
Reimbursement Period
Section 40.3
 
"": As defined in .
REIT
Section 36.1.1
 
"": As defined in .
REIT Requirements
Section 36.1.1
 
"": As defined in hereof.
Renewal Group
Section 19.1
 
"": Collectively, Base Rent and Additional Charges (as defined in hereof).
Rent
Section 3.3
 
"": A period from May 1 of any year through April 30 of the following year.
Rent Calculation Year
 
"": That certain Stipulation and Order Pursuant to Section 365 of the Bankruptcy Code regarding Vencor, Inc., Vencor Operating, Inc. and Vencor Nursing Centers Limited Partnership's Performance of Obligations under, and Extending the Time within which Vencor, Inc., Vencor Operating, Inc. and Vencor Nursing Centers Limited Partnership May Accept or Reject, Certain Agreements between Vencor, Inc., Vencor Operating, Inc., Vencor Nursing Centers Limited Partnership, Ventas, Inc. and Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership dated September 13, 1999 and entered by the Bankruptcy Court in the bankruptcy proceedings of Tenant on September 13, 1999, at docket no. 43, as the same may heretofore have been, or hereafter may be, amended by Lessor and Tenant, each acting in its sole discretion.
Rent Stipulation
 
"": As defined in .
Reset Date
Section 3.2
 
"": As defined in .
Reset Exercise and Payment Date
Section 3.2
 
"": As defined in .
Reset Fee
Section 3.2
 
"": As defined in .
Reset Option
Section 3.2
 
"": As defined in .
Second Lease
Section 40.18
 
"": As defined in .
Section 1.3.3.1 Claim
Section 1.3.3.1
 
"": As defined in .
Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction
Section 16.10.3.1
 
"": As defined in .
Section 16.10.1 Number
Section 16.10.1
 
"": As defined in .
Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso
Section 16.10.2.3
 
"": As defined in .
Section 16.10.3.2 Number
Section 16.10.3.2
 
"": As defined in .
Section 16.10.3.3 Lease
Section 16.10.3.3
 
"": As defined in .
Section 16.12 Notice
Section 16.12.2
 
"": As defined in .
Section 40.3 Notice
Section 40.3
 
"": As defined in .
Section 40.18 Date
Section 40.18
 
"": As defined in .
Section 40.18 Lease
Section 40.18
 
"": The lender(s) under the Tenant Credit Agreement, from time to time.
Senior Lender
 
"": An Officer's Certificate of Tenant signed by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, the chief operating officer or the general counsel of Tenant, or a Person having such title or the equivalent thereof in the general partner or the managing member of Tenant.
Senior Officer's Certificate
 
"": As defined in .
Separate Lease
Section 22.7
 
"": The State or Commonwealth in which the applicable Leased Property is located.
State
 
"": As defined in
Sublease Rent Payments
Section 25.1.7
 
"": The corporations or other entities of which securities or similar ownership interests representing (i) ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions or (ii) a majority of the economic interest therein, are at the time directly or indirectly owned by Tenant or any Guarantor (individually, a "Subsidiary").
Subsidiaries
 
"": Any ground lease or other lease to which the applicable Leased Property is subject.
Superior Lease
 
"": The lessor under any ground lease or other lease to which the applicable Leased Property is subject.
Superior Lessor
 
"": As defined in .
Superior Mortgage
Section 21.1
 
"": As defined in .
Superior Mortgagee
Section 21.1
 
"": As defined in .
Suspension Period
Section 40.14
 
"": A taking or voluntary conveyance during the Term of all or part of the applicable Leased Property, or any interest therein or right accruing thereto or use thereof, as the result of, or in settlement of any condemnation or other eminent domain proceeding affecting such Leased Property whether or not the same shall have actually been commenced.
Taking
 
"": The Tax Refund Escrow Agreement referenced in the Bankruptcy Plan, as the same is hereafter amended, modified or supplemented, in each case with the written consent of VRLP, in its sole discretion.
Tax Refund Escrow Agreement
 
"": As defined in the preamble hereof.
Tenant
 
"": That certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2004 between Kindred and the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as Collateral Agent and Administrative Agent, and any amendment thereof.
Tenant Credit Agreement
 
"": As defined in .
Tenant Shares
Section 40.14
 
"": All motor vehicles, machinery, equipment, furniture, furnishings, movable walls or partitions, computers or trade fixtures or all other personal property, and consumable inventory and supplies, now owned or hereafter acquired by Tenant and located on the applicable Leased Property or used or useful in Tenant's business on such Leased Property, including without limitation all modifications, replacements, alterations and additions to such personal property installed at the expense of Tenant, except items, if any, included within the definition of Fixtures.
Tenant's Personal Property
 
"": Collectively for each applicable Leased Property, the Fixed Term and any Extended Terms, to the extent properly exercised pursuant to the provisions of , unless earlier terminated pursuant to the provisions of this Lease.
Term
Article XIX
 
"": As defined in .
Transferred Property(ies)
Section 40.15
 
"": As defined in .
Transferred Property Percentage(s)
Section 40.15
 
"": Delays due to strikes, lockouts, inability to procure materials, power failure, acts of God, governmental restrictions, enemy action, civil commotion, fire, unavoidable casualty or other causes beyond the control of the party responsible for performing an obligation hereunder, provided that lack of funds shall not be deemed a cause beyond the control of either party hereto unless such lack of funds is caused by the failure of the other party hereto to perform any obligations of such party, under this Lease, or any guaranty of this Lease, including any obligation to provide financing undertaken by Lessor pursuant to Article X below.
Unavoidable Delays
 
"": A state or condition of the Facility located at the applicable Leased Property such that, by reason of damage or destruction, or a partial taking by condemnation, in the good faith judgment of Tenant, the Facility cannot be operated on a commercially practicable basis for its Primary Intended Use taking into account, among other relevant factors, the number of usable beds affected by such damage or destruction or partial taking; , that such Facility shall not be deemed to be "Unsuitable For Its Primary Intended Use" if such Leased Property can, within one (1) year after the occurrence of such damage, destruction or taking, be restored to substantially the same state and condition as existed immediately prior to such damage, destruction or taking.
Unsuitable For Its Primary Intended Use
provided
however
 
"": A lessor that is Ventas, Inc. and/or Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and/or any successor to either of them (by merger or otherwise) and/or any Affiliate of Ventas, Inc. or Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership or any such successor.
Ventas Lessor
 
"": As defined in Recital A hereto.
VRLP
 
 
. Tenant shall pay to Lessor, in lawful money of the United States of America which shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts, at Lessor's address set forth in below or at such other place or to such other person(s), firm(s) or corporation(s) as Lessor from time to time may designate in writing, Base Rent and Additional Charges during the Term, including, without limitation, any Extended Terms, as hereinafter provided. Any rental escalations required under this Lease to be made on the May 1 immediately following the Effective Date shall be made on such May 1, in the full amount required as if the Leased Properties had been under this Lease for a full year, notwithstanding that the period from the Effective Date to such succeeding May 1 may be less than one full year. Lessor may, by written notice to Tenant at any time and from time to time, elect to require that Rent (or portions thereof designated by Lessor) that is payable to Lessor hereunder be paid by wire transfer of immediately available funds to such wire transfer account(s) as Lessor may specify in writing.
Section 3.1
Rent
Section 34.1
 
(a) . Base Rent shall be payable, in the manner provided in above, in advance in equal, consecutive monthly installments, on the first day of each calendar month of the Term, including, without limitation, any Extended Terms; , , that, if the Effective Date occurs other than on the first day of a calendar month, the first monthly payment of Base Rent shall be payable on the Effective Date and that the first and last monthly payments of Base Rent shall be prorated as to any partial month (subject to adjustment as provided in below).
Base Rent
Section 3.1
provided
however
Section 10.3(b)(iv)
 
.
Section 3.2
Option to Reset Base Rent
 
(a) . Lessor shall have the unilateral, one-time right and option (the "Reset Option") to reset the Base Rent for the balance of the Term (including, without limitation, any Extended Terms) from and after the Reset Date (as hereinafter defined), on the terms and conditions described in this .
Reset Option
Section 3.2
 
(b) . If Lessor desires to reset the aforesaid components of Rent, subject to subsection (c) below, Lessor shall give Tenant notice (a ""), on any date that is not prior to January 20, 2006 but not later than July 19, 2007, that, subject to a determination of the Fair Market Rental in accordance with the provisions of this , Lessor may be interested in resetting the aforesaid components of Rent for the aforesaid balance of the Term. The Reset Proposal Notice shall set forth Lessor's proposal of Fair Market Rental, for the aforesaid balance of the Term, including any escalations proposed by Lessor, and shall further include Lessor's proposal for an amended containing Lessor's proposed allocations of Base Rent and Transferred Property Percentages, for each of the Leased Properties. Provided that Lessor exercises the Reset Option pursuant to subsection (e) below, the date of delivery of the Reset Proposal Notice is referred to herein as the "Reset Date", , , that, if the Reset Proposal Notice is sent prior to July 19, 2006, the "Reset Date" shall be July 19, 2006.
Reset Proposal Notice
Reset Proposal Notice
Section 3.2
Exhibit C
provided
however
 
(c) . Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) above, but subject to hereof, Lessor may not
No Periodic Reset Proposal Notice Option
Section 40.15(a)(xiv)
 
send a Reset Proposal Notice under this Lease if Lessor, as lessor under this Lease, has previously sent a Reset Proposal Notice hereunder.
 
(d) . Lessor and Tenant shall attempt to agree on the Fair Market Rental, and upon an amended Exhibit C, promptly following the delivery of a Reset Proposal Notice. If Lessor and Tenant are not able to agree upon such Fair Market Rental, and upon an amended , within thirty (30) days after the delivery of the Reset Proposal Notice, an appraisal for the determination thereof under hereof shall be conducted. Within thirty (30) days after the expiration of the first 30-day period referenced above, each party shall give notice to the other party specifying the name and address of the person meeting the qualifications set forth in below designated to act as an appraiser on its behalf. Thereafter, the Fair Market Rental for the balance of the Term (including, without limitation, any Extended Terms) from and after the Reset Date, and an amended Exhibit C, shall be determined in accordance with hereof.
Determination of Fair Market Rental and Amended Exhibit C
Exhibit C
Article XXXV
Section 35.3
Article XXXV
 
(e) . If the Fair Market Rental and amended Exhibit C, as determined pursuant to subsection (d) above, are acceptable to Lessor, Lessor may exercise the Reset Option by delivering to Tenant a written notice to such effect within thirty (30) days following the determination of the Fair Market Rental, and an amended Exhibit C, as set forth in such subsection (d), together with payment to Tenant of the Reset Fees applicable to this Lease, the Original Master Lease and all other leases of Master Lease Leased Properties and interest on the aforesaid Reset Fees at the annual rate of six percent (6%) for the period from the applicable Reset Date through the date the aforesaid Reset Fees are paid to Tenant (and, without limitation of subsection (g) below, Lessor and Tenant agree that, as of the Effective Date, the Reset Fee applicable to this Lease equals $105,908.00, as calculated pursuant to of the Original Master Lease). In such event, subject to and without limitation of and hereof, (i) the Base Rent shall, for the balance of the Term from and after the Reset Date (including, without limitation, any Extended Terms), be reset and adjusted, as set forth in the definition of Base Rent contained in hereof, using the Fair Market Rental, as so determined (including any escalations of rent), in making such resettings and adjustments, (ii) effective as of the Reset Date, the aforesaid amended shall replace the existing hereto, (iii) Lessor shall have no further right or option under this to reset the aforesaid components of Rent, and (iv) with respect to the period from and after Lessor's issuance of a Reset Proposal Notice through and including the day preceding the date (the "Reset Exercise and Payment Date") Lessor exercises the Reset Option, and pays the Reset Fee and interest thereon, as aforesaid, Tenant shall continue to pay Base Rent at the times, in the manner and with any scheduled adjustments therein, in each case as set forth in hereof, and, upon Lessor's exercise of the Reset Option, and payment of the Reset Fee and interest thereon, as aforesaid, there shall immediately be due and payable from Tenant to Lessor such additional amount of Rent as is owing from Tenant to Lessor, or from Lessor to Tenant such amount as is owing from Lessor to Tenant on account of any Rent overpayment, for the period from the Reset Date through the Reset Exercise and Payment Date, after taking into account the resettings and adjustments referenced in subsection (i) above and the amounts paid by Tenant with respect to such period on account of Rent owing hereunder as set forth in this subsection (iv). If Lessor fails to notify Tenant of its exercise of the Reset Option, and to pay to Tenant the Reset Fee and any interest due and owing thereon, on or prior to such 30th day, Lessor shall be deemed to have declined to exercise the Reset Option based upon the Reset Proposal Notice and Fair Market
Exercise of Reset Option
Section 40.15(a)(viii)
Sections 19.2
19.3
Section 2.1
Exhibit C
Exhibit C
Section 3.2
Section 3.1
 
Rental and amended Exhibit C determinations relating thereto. Subject to hereof, such declination by Lessor shall prevent Lessor from thereafter issuing a Reset Proposal Notice under this Lease in accordance with subsection (b) above.
Section 40.15(a)(xiv)
 
(f) . Tenant acknowledges and agrees that, in the event Lessor exercises the Reset Option, Tenant shall thereafter remain obligated to pay Additional Charges as provided in and hereof, notwithstanding any resetting of Base Rent pursuant to this .
Effect of Reset
Sections 3.1
3.3
Section 3.2
 
(g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this and pursuant to of the Original Master Lease, (i) the lessor under the Original Master Lease shall have the sole and exclusive power and authority to exercise the rights of the lessor under of each lease of one or more Master Lease Leased Properties (including the rights of Lessor under of this Lease), and to bind such lessor with respect thereto, and (ii) the rights of Lessor under this , acting through the lessor under the Original Master Lease as provided in subsection (i) above, must be exercised consistently and simultaneously with the exercise of such rights by the lessor of the Original Master Lease (for example, if a Reset Proposal Notice is to be sent, or the Reset Option is to be exercised, or determinations by appraisal are to be requested, the same must be done at the same time for all of the Master Lease Leased Properties (including the Leased Properties under this Lease)) and, if the Reset Option is to be exercised, the Reset Fees applicable to this Lease, the Original Master Lease and all other leases of Master Lease Leased Properties must be paid to Tenant in connection with, and as a condition of, any such exercise.
Section 3.2
Section 40.15(a)(xiv)
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
 
. In addition to Base Rent payable with respect to the Leased Properties, Tenant shall pay and discharge as and when due and payable the following (collectively ""):
Section 3.3
Additional Charges
Additional Charges
 
(1) . Tenant shall pay all Impositions before any fine, penalty, interest or cost may be added for non-payment, such payments to be made directly to the taxing authorities where feasible or, if otherwise required by law, to Lessor, and shall promptly upon request, furnish to Lessor copies of official receipts or other satisfactory proof evidencing such payments. If any such Imposition may, at the option of the taxpayer, lawfully be paid in installments (whether or not interest shall accrue on the unpaid balance of such Imposition), subject to the terms of any applicable Facility Mortgage, Tenant may exercise the option to pay same (and any accrued interest on the unpaid balance of such Imposition) in installments and, in such event, shall pay such installments during the Term as the same may become due and before any fine, penalty, premium, further interest or cost may be added thereto.
Impositions
 
(2) . Tenant shall pay all charges for electricity, power, gas, oil, water, sanitary and storm sewer, refuse collection, medical waste disposal and other utilities used or consumed in connection with each Leased Property during the Term.
Utility Charges
 
(3) . Tenant shall pay all premiums for the insurance coverage required to be maintained pursuant to hereof.
Insurance Premiums
Article XIII
 
(4) . Tenant shall pay all other amounts, liabilities and obligations that Tenant assumes or agrees to pay under this Lease, including, without limitation, all agreements to indemnify Lessor under and and any and all fees, costs and expenses incurred by Tenant in the operation of its business at the Facility.
Other Charges
Sections 12.1
24.1
 
(5) . If any installment of Base Rent or Additional Charges (but only as to those Additional Charges which are payable directly to Lessor or Lessor's agent or assignee) shall not be paid within five (5) Business Days after its due date, Tenant will pay to Lessor on demand a late charge (to the extent permitted by law) computed at the Overdue Rate (or at the maximum rate permitted by law, whichever is the lesser) on the amount of such installment, from the due date of such installment to the date of payment thereof.
Late Payment of Rent
 
To the extent that Tenant pays any Additional Charges to Lessor pursuant to any requirement of this Lease, Tenant shall be relieved of its obligation to pay such Additional Charges to the entity to which they would otherwise be due. If any Facility Mortgagee shall so require, or if any Additional Charges shall not be paid to a third party payee within five (5) Business Days after its due date, Lessor may at any time thereafter, at Lessor's option, require Tenant to deposit into an escrow account under the sole dominion and control of Lessor (or the applicable Facility Mortgagee), on the first day of each and every month, an amount sufficient to insure that such escrow account shall contain an amount sufficient to make such payment on its next due date, in which event Lessor shall make all future payments for such expense from the escrow account. In the event of any failure by Tenant to pay any Additional Charges when due, Tenant shall promptly pay and discharge, as Additional Charges, every fine, penalty, interest and cost that may be added for non-payment or late payment of such items. Lessor shall have all legal, equitable and contractual rights, powers and remedies provided either in this Lease or by statute or otherwise in the case of non-payment of Rent.
 
. Tenant's obligation to pay any Rent owing hereunder with respect to any period on or prior to the expiration or termination of this Lease (including, without limitation, any Extended Terms), as this Lease applies to any or all of the Leased Properties, shall survive any such expiration or termination.
Section 3.4
Survival
 
. The Rent shall be paid absolutely net to Lessor, without any rights of deduction, set-off or abatement, so that this Lease shall yield to Lessor the full amount of the installments of Base Rent and Additional Charges, throughout the Term, including, without limitation, any Extended Terms. This Lease is intended to be and shall be construed as an absolutely net lease pursuant to which Lessor shall not, under any circumstances or conditions, whether presently existing or hereafter arising, and whether foreseen or unforeseen by the parties, be required to make any payment or expenditure of any kind whatsoever or be under any other obligation or liability whatsoever, except as expressly set forth herein.
Section 3.5
Net Lease
 
. Lessor and Tenant acknowledge that, pursuant to the Bankruptcy Plan, on or about April 20, 2001 VRLP received certain New Common Stock (as defined in the Bankruptcy Plan). Lessor and Tenant acknowledge and agree that (a) such New Common Stock was received by VRLP as additional rent in consideration of the agreement of the lessors under the Master Leases to enter into the Master Leases and thereby agree to charge Base Rent as provided in the Master Leases and in leases to be derived therefrom, (b) such
Section 3.6
New Common Stock
 
additional rent was paid on or about April 20, 2001 by the delivery of such New Common Stock to VRLP, (c) such additional rent is non-refundable by VRLP or Lessor, and (d) the delivery of such New Common Stock to VRLP does not reduce the amount of Base Rent due and payable hereunder, under the Master Leases or under any other leases derived from this Lease or the Master Leases.
 
 
. Subject to relating to permitted contests, Tenant shall pay all Impositions as set forth in . Tenant's obligation to pay such Impositions shall be deemed absolutely fixed upon the date such Impositions become a lien upon the Leased Property or any part thereof. Lessor, at its expense, shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, prepare and file all tax returns and reports as may be required by governmental authorities in respect of Lessor's net income, gross receipts, franchise taxes and taxes on its capital stock, and Tenant, at its expense, shall, to the extent permitted by applicable laws and regulations, prepare and file all other tax returns and reports in respect of any Imposition as may be required by governmental authorities. If any refund shall be due from any taxing authority in respect of any Imposition paid by Tenant, the same shall be paid over to or retained by Tenant if no Event of Default shall have occurred hereunder and be continuing. Any such funds retained by Lessor due to an Event of Default shall be applied as provided in . Lessor and Tenant shall, upon request of the other, provide such data as is maintained by the party to whom the request is made with respect to the Leased Property as may be necessary to prepare any required returns and reports. In the event governmental authorities classify any property covered by this Lease as personal property, Tenant shall file all personal property tax returns in such jurisdictions where it may legally so file. Lessor, to the extent it possesses the same, and Tenant, to the extent it possesses the same, will provide the other party, upon request, with cost and depreciation records necessary for filing returns for any property so classified as personal property. Where Lessor is legally required to file personal property tax returns, Tenant will be provided with copies of assessment notices indicating a value in excess of the reported value in sufficient time for Tenant to file a protest. Tenant may, upon notice to Lessor, at Tenant's option and at Tenant's sole cost and expense, protest, appeal, or institute such other proceedings as Tenant may deem appropriate to effect a reduction of real estate or personal property assessments and Lessor, at Tenant's expense as aforesaid, shall fully cooperate with Tenant in such protest, appeal, or other action (including, without limitation, signing all required forms and documents reasonably necessary for Tenant to file and prosecute such appeal, protest or other action), provided that Tenant shall indemnify Lessor from and against all losses, claims, damages, costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees) arising after April 20, 2001 suffered or incurred by Lessor and caused by such cooperation, including, without limitation, signing or providing any such forms and documents). Billings for reimbursement by Tenant to Lessor of personal property taxes shall be accompanied by copies of a bill therefor and payments thereof which identify the personal property with respect to which such payments are made.
Section 4.1
Payment of Impositions
Article XII
Section 3.3
Article XVI
 
. Lessor shall give prompt notice to Tenant of all Impositions payable by Tenant hereunder of which Lessor at any time has knowledge, but Lessor's failure to give any such notice shall in no way diminish Tenant's obligations hereunder to pay such Impositions.
Section 4.2
Notice of Impositions
 
. Impositions imposed in respect of the tax-fiscal period during which the Term terminates or expires shall be adjusted and prorated between Lessor and Tenant, whether or not such Imposition is imposed before or after such termination or expiration, and Tenant's obligation to pay its prorated share thereof shall survive such termination or expiration.
Section 4.3
Adjustment of Impositions
 
 
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Lease, Tenant, to the extent permitted by law, shall remain bound by this Lease in accordance with its terms and shall neither take any action without the consent of Lessor to modify, surrender or terminate the same, nor seek nor be entitled to any abatement, deduction, deferment or reduction of Rent, or set-off against the Rent, nor shall the respective obligations of Lessor and Tenant be otherwise affected by reason of (a) any damage to, or destruction of, any Leased Property or any portion thereof from whatever cause or any Taking of any Leased Property or any portion thereof, (b) the interruption or discontinuance of any service or utility servicing any Leased Property, (c) the lawful or unlawful prohibition of, or restriction upon, Tenant's use of any Leased Property, or any portion thereof, the interference with such use by any person, corporation, partnership or other entity, or by reason of eviction by paramount title, (d) any claim which Tenant has or might have against Lessor or by reason of any default or breach of any warranty by Lessor under this Lease or any other agreement between Lessor and Tenant, or to which Lessor and Tenant are parties, (e) any bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, composition, readjustment, liquidation, dissolution, winding up or other proceedings affecting Lessor or any assignee or transferee of Lessor, (f) any revocation, suspension or non-renewal of any license, permit, approval or other Authorization necessary to operate any Facility, (g) any withholding, non-payment, reduction or other adverse change respecting any Medicare, Medicaid or other reimbursements due or available to Tenant with respect to any Facility, or (h) for any other cause whether similar or dissimilar to any of the foregoing other than a discharge of Tenant from any such obligations as a matter of law. Tenant hereby specifically waives all rights, arising from any occurrence whatsoever, which may now or hereafter be conferred upon it by law to (i) modify, surrender or terminate this Lease or quit or surrender the Leased Property or any portion thereof, or (ii) entitle Tenant to any abatement, reduction, suspension or deferment of the Rent or other sums payable by Tenant hereunder. The obligations of Lessor and Tenant hereunder shall be separate and independent covenants and agreements and the Rent and all other sums payable by Tenant hereunder shall continue to be payable in all events unless the obligations to pay the same shall be terminated by termination of this Lease as to any Leased Property other than by reason of an Event of Default.
Section 5.1
No Termination, Abatement, etc.
 
 
. Tenant acknowledges that the Leased Properties are the property of Lessor and that Tenant has only the right to the exclusive possession and use of the Leased Properties upon and subject to the terms and conditions of this Lease. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Lease or the Joinder hereto by Ventas, Inc., in the case of any easement or other rights that are appurtenant to any property owned by Lessor, Tenant agrees that neither Lessor nor Ventas, Inc. makes any representation or warranty relative to Lessor's title thereto or whether such appurtenances are encumbered, and
Section 6.1
Ownership of the Leased Properties
 
neither Lessor nor Ventas, Inc. shall be obligated to discharge any liens or encumbrances with respect to, or otherwise to defend, Lessor's right, title and interest, if any, in any such appurtenances. Tenant agrees that such appurtenances shall constitute Permitted Encumbrances, as to which Tenant shall have the obligations set forth in and of this Lease, provided that Tenant shall not be obligated to defend or preserve any such appurtenances against any mortgages or other liens created by the owner of the property burdened by the aforesaid appurtenances that are senior in priority to Lessor's aforesaid appurtenant rights.
Section 8.3
Section 24.1
 
. Tenant may (and shall as provided hereinbelow), at its expense, install, affix or assemble or place on any parcels of the Land or in any of the Leased Improvements, any items of Tenant's Personal Property and Tenant shall, subject to the conditions set forth below and except for any Tenant's Personal Property that is purchased by Lessor pursuant to below, remove the same upon the expiration or any prior termination of the Term. Tenant shall provide and maintain during the entire Term all such Tenant's Personal Property as shall be necessary in order to operate each Facility in compliance with all licensure and certification requirements, in compliance with all applicable Legal Requirements and Insurance Requirements and otherwise in accordance with customary practice in the industry for the Primary Intended Use. Lessor acknowledges that Leasehold Mortgagee has a security interest in Tenant's Personal Property and, upon the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease as it relates to a Leased Property, Lessor agrees to permit Leasehold Mortgagee to enter on such Leased Property in order to remove such Tenant's Personal Property, so long as Leasehold Mortgagee, at no expense to Lessor, repairs or causes to be repaired, any damage to such Leased Property caused by any such removal, and further agrees to subordinate, and hereby subordinates, to the lien of Leasehold Mortgagee on such Tenant's Personal Property any lien Lessor has thereon. All of Tenant's Personal Property not removed by Tenant or Leasehold Mortgagee within twenty-one days following the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease with respect to the applicable Leased Property where such Tenant's Personal Property is located or sold to Lessor pursuant to below shall be considered abandoned by Tenant and Leasehold Mortgagee and may be appropriated, sold, destroyed or otherwise disposed of by Lessor without first giving notice thereof to Tenant or Leasehold Mortgagee and without any payment to Tenant or Leasehold Mortgagee and without any obligation to account therefor or otherwise dispose of the same in accordance with applicable law. Tenant will, at its expense, restore such Leased Property to the condition required by , including repair of all damage to the Leased Property caused by the removal of Tenant's Personal Property, whether effected by Tenant, Leasehold Mortgagee or Lessor.
Section 6.2
Tenant's Personal Property
Section 37.2
Section 37.2
Section 9.1(d)
 
 
. Tenant acknowledges receipt and delivery of possession of each Leased Property and that Tenant has examined and otherwise has knowledge of the condition of the Leased Property prior to the execution and delivery of this Lease and has found the same to be in good order and repair and satisfactory for its purposes hereunder. Tenant is leasing the Leased Property "as is" in its present condition. Tenant waives any claim or action against Lessor in respect of the condition of the Leased Property. LESSOR MAKES NO WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, IN RESPECT OF THE LEASED PROPERTY OR ANY PART THEREOF, EITHER AS TO ITS FITNESS FOR USE, DESIGN OR CONDITION FOR ANY PARTICULAR USE OR PURPOSE OR
Section 7.1
Condition of the Leased Property
 
OTHERWISE AS TO THE QUALITY OF THE MATERIAL OR WORKMANSHIP THEREIN, LATENT OR PATENT, IT BEING AGREED THAT ALL SUCH RISKS ARE TO BE BORNE BY TENANT. TENANT ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE LEASED PROPERTY HAS BEEN INSPECTED BY TENANT AND IS SATISFACTORY TO IT.
 
U.
Section 7.2
se of the Leased Property
 
Tenant shall maintain or cause to be maintained all licenses, permits, approvals and other Authorizations needed to use and operate for its Primary Intended Use (or any other use permitted under the terms of this Lease) each Leased Property and the Facility located at each such Leased Property under and in accordance with all applicable local, state and federal laws and all applicable state and federal programs including but not limited to appropriate certifications for reimbursement and licensure. All of such Authorizations shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law, relate and apply exclusively to one or more of the Leased Properties and/or the Facilities operated thereon. Tenant acknowledges and agrees that, subject to applicable law, the certificates of need issued for the Facilities are appurtenant to such Facilities, both during and following the termination or expiration of the Term. In jurisdictions where the certificate of need is issued to Tenant or its subtenant, as the Facility operator, Tenant agrees that it shall cooperate with Lessor, in accordance with hereof, to turn over all of Tenant's rights in connection with such certificate of need to Lessor or its designee.
Section 7.2.1
Section 40.3
 
After the Effective Date and during the entire Term, Tenant shall use each Leased Property and the Leased Improvements thereof as a hospital or a nursing center and each Facility that is being used as a hospital on the Effective Date shall continue to be used as a hospital during the entire Term and each Facility being used as a nursing center on the Effective Date shall continue to be used as a nursing center during the entire Term (such use being the applicable Leased Property's ""). Tenant shall not use the applicable Leased Property or any portion thereof for any other use without the prior written consent of Lessor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned. No use shall be made or permitted to be made of the applicable Leased Property, and no acts shall be done, that will cause the cancellation of any insurance policy covering such Leased Property or any part thereof, nor shall Tenant sell or otherwise provide to occupants or patients therein, or permit to be kept, used or sold in or about such Leased Property any article which may be prohibited by law or by the standard form of fire insurance policies, or any other insurance policies required to be carried hereunder, or fire underwriters regulations. Tenant shall, at its sole cost, comply with all of the requirements pertaining to the applicable Leased Property or other improvements of any insurance board, association, organization or company necessary for the maintenance of insurance, as herein provided, covering such Leased Property and Tenant's Personal Property.
Section 7.2.2
Primary Intended Use
 
Tenant shall during the Term operate continuously each Leased Property in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local laws as a provider of health care services in accordance with its Primary Intended Use and maintain its certifications for reimbursement and licensure and its accreditation, if compliance with accreditation standards is required to maintain the operations of the Facility and if a failure to comply would adversely affect operations of the Facility.
Section 7.2.3
 
Tenant shall not commit or suffer to be committed any waste on any Leased Property, or in any Facility, nor shall Tenant cause or permit any nuisance thereon. Tenant shall not take or omit to take any action, the taking or omission of which may materially impair the value or the usefulness of such Leased Property or any part thereof for its Primary Intended Use.
Section 7.2.4
 
Tenant shall neither suffer nor permit any Leased Property or any portion thereof, including any Capital Alteration whether or not financed by Lessor, or Tenant's Personal Property, to be used in such a manner as (i) might reasonably tend to impair Lessor's (or Tenant's, as the case may be) title thereto or to any portion thereof, or (ii) may reasonably make possible a claim or claims of adverse usage or adverse possession by the public, as such, or of implied dedication of the applicable Leased Property or any portion thereof.
Section 7.2.5
 
Nothing contained in this shall be deemed to prevent Tenant from (i) voluntarily withdrawing from the Medicaid program, and voluntarily de-activating its certification for participation therein, as the same apply to a Facility(ies), or (ii) voluntarily reducing the number of beds at a Facility(ies) as to which a certification for reimbursement under the Medicaid program is applicable (but without affecting Tenant's certification for participation in the Medicaid program as to any such Facility(ies) and without reducing the number of beds at any Facility(ies) as to which a certification for participation in the Medicaid program is applicable below any legally required minimum number of beds), or (iii) voluntarily reducing the number of beds at a Facility(ies) as to which a certification for reimbursement under the Medicare program is applicable (but without affecting Tenant's certification for participation in the Medicare program as to any such Facility(ies) and without reducing the number of beds at any Facility(ies) as to which a certification for participation in the Medicare program is applicable below any legally required minimum number of beds), in each case if and so long as, in accordance with any and all laws, statutes, rules, regulations and orders applicable to the Medicaid and Medicare programs and certifications for participation therein and to any such Facility(ies), Tenant or any successor operator of such Facility(ies) may at any time at its election, without the necessity of any governmental approval or additional Authorization (other than routine governmental re-inspections of such Facility(ies) and any ministerial approvals and other Authorizations), as applicable depending upon whether subsection (i), (ii) and/or (iii) above is applicable, (a) promptly rejoin the Medicaid program, and re-activate its certification for participation in the Medicaid program, at any such Facility(ies) and/or (b) promptly re-activate its certification for participation in the Medicaid program and/or Medicare program, as applicable, as to any beds as to which a voluntary reduction under subsection (ii) and/or (iii) above is applicable. At the time, and as a condition, of any such voluntary withdrawal and de-activation, or voluntary reduction, by Tenant and thereafter within twenty (20) days after receipt of a written request therefor from Lessor from time to time (but not more often than twice in any calendar year, unless, after Lessor has made two (2) such requests in a calendar year, a change(s) in Legal Requirements becomes effective, or Lessor obtains knowledge of other facts or circumstances, suggesting a possible violation of this ), Tenant shall deliver to Lessor a Senior Officer's Certificate, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lessor, certifying that Tenant has made diligent inquiry relative to the applicable Legal Requirements and has consulted with its legal counsel and, based on the foregoing, certifies that Tenant has complied, and continues to comply, with the provisions of this in connection with such voluntary withdrawal and de-activation and/or voluntary reduction.
Section 7.2.6
Section 7.2
Section 7.2.6
Section 7.2.6
 
Section 7.3
Granting of Easements, etc.
 
Lessor and Tenant will, from time to time so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, at the request of the other party and at such requesting party's cost and expense (but subject to the approval of the non-requesting party, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned, and , , that if the non-requesting party has not responded to any such request of the requesting party within 30 days after receipt thereof, such request shall be deemed approved), (i) grant easements and other rights in the nature of easements, (ii) release existing easements or other rights in the nature of easements which are for the benefit of the applicable Leased Property, (iii) dedicate or transfer unimproved portions of the applicable Leased Property for road, highway or other public purposes, (iv) execute petitions to have the applicable Leased Property annexed to any municipal corporation or utility district, (v) execute amendments to any covenants and restrictions affecting the applicable Leased Property and (vi) execute and deliver to any person any instrument appropriate to confirm or effect such grants, releases, dedications and transfers (to the extent of its interests in the applicable Leased Property), but only upon delivery of all documentation the non-requesting party reasonably shall deem necessary and, if Lessor is the requesting party, only if such grant, release, dedication, transfer, petition or amendment (a) is not detrimental to the proper conduct of the business of Tenant on the applicable Leased Property and (b) does not materially reduce the value of the Leased Property, as reasonably determined by Tenant, and, if Tenant is the requesting party, only if such grant, release, dedication, transfer, petition or amendment does not materially reduce the value of the Leased Property, as reasonably determined by Lessor.
Section 7.3.1
provided
however
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in , , or elsewhere in this Lease, in the case of any easement or license for a cell tower, antenna, satellite dish or other telecommunications equipment, a parking lot or a billboard or other signage (a) that is entered into pursuant to hereof at the written request of Lessor and (b) from which profit is generated and all of such profit, and any reimbursements of out of pocket costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in connection therewith, are payable to Lessor, without any obligation of Lessor to pay, or credit, any of the same to Tenant, (i) Tenant shall be obligated under this , , and the other provisions of this Lease only to refrain from taking, and to prevent its assignees and sublessees, and the agents, employees, contractors, invitees, licensees and concessionaires of Tenant and its assignees and sublessees, from taking, any action that would cause or result in a breach, default, violation or termination of any such easement or license and (ii) Lessor shall protect, indemnify, save harmless and defend Tenant from and against all out of pocket costs and expenses (including, without limitation, Litigation Costs), to the maximum extent permitted by law, incurred by Tenant due to any liabilities, obligations, claims, damages, penalties or causes of action asserted against Tenant primarily by reason of any such easement or license and not arising due to any breach by Tenant of its obligations under subsection (i) above.
Section 7.3.2
Section 7.3.1
Section 8.3
Section 24.1
Section 7.3.1
Section 7.3
Section 8.3
Section 24.1
 
 
Subject to relating to permitted contests, Tenant, at its expense, will promptly (a) comply with all material Legal Requirements and Insurance Requirements in respect of the use,
Section 8.1
Compliance with Legal and Insurance Requirements, Instruments, etc.
Article XII
 
operation, maintenance, repair and restoration of the applicable Leased Property, whether or not compliance therewith shall require structural changes in any of the Leased Improvements or interfere with the use and enjoyment of such Leased Property, and (b) procure, maintain and comply with all licenses, certificates of need and other Authorizations required for any use of the applicable Leased Property and Tenant's Personal Property then being made, and for the proper erection, installation, operation and maintenance of the applicable Leased Property or any part thereof, including without limitation any Capital Alterations. In addition, Tenant shall promptly send to Lessor any material deficiency report Tenant receives from any federal, state or local licensure board or certification agency or authority with respect to any Facility if Tenant has not cured such deficiency within the applicable cure period.
 
. In the event that Tenant shall receive notice from any federal, state or local agency or authority that Tenant is not in compliance with any material Legal Requirement, license, permit, approval, certificate of need, certification for reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid (with respect to any Facility that participates in such programs) or other Authorization, Tenant shall promptly send notice to Lessor and Tenant shall either (a) remedy any condition causing such noncompliance within any cure period allowed therefor by the applicable agency or authority (or, if no such cure period shall be allowed or specified by the applicable agency or authority, promptly and diligently following Tenant's receipt of such notice and, in any event, prior to the final unappealable revocation of any license, permit, approval, certificate of need, certification for reimbursement or other Authorization) or (b) prior to the expiration of such cure period (or if no such cure period shall be allowed or specified by the applicable agency or authority, promptly following receipt of such notice and, in any event, prior to the final unappealable revocation of any license, permit, approval, certificate of need, certification for reimbursement or other Authorization), commence appropriate proceedings to contest such notice, and, thereafter, diligently pursue such contest until there is a final unappealable determination, all in accordance with the provisions of and hereof.
Section 8.1.1
Authorization Non-Compliance
Sections 8.2
12.1
 
. Subject to the provisions of relating to permitted contests, Tenant covenants and agrees that none of the Leased Properties nor any of Tenant's Personal Property shall be used for any unlawful purpose, and Tenant shall acquire and maintain, or cause to be acquired and maintained, all licenses, certificates, permits, provider agreements, approvals and other Authorizations needed to operate the applicable Leased Property in its customary manner for the Primary Intended Use, and any other use conducted on such Leased Property as may be permitted from time to time hereunder. Subject to , Tenant further covenants and agrees that Tenant's use of each Leased Property and maintenance, alteration, and operation of the same, and all parts thereof, shall at all times conform to all applicable local, state, and federal laws, ordinances, rules and regulations unless the same are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unlawful. Tenant may, however, upon prior written notice to Lessor, contest the legality or applicability of any law, ordinance, rule or regulation, or any other Legal Requirement or any licensure, certification or other Authorization decision (including, without limitation, any notice of non-compliance referred to in hereof) or other Authorization if Tenant, at Tenant's own expense, maintains such action in good faith, by appropriate proceedings and with due diligence, and on a regular basis fully informs Lessor of the status of, and material developments in, any such contest and furnishes Lessor with such additional documents and information concerning such contest as Lessor may reasonably
Section 8.2
Legal Requirement Covenants
Article XII
Article XII
Section 8.1.1
 
request from time to time. If, by the terms of any such law, ordinance, rule or regulation or any Legal Requirement or any such licensure, certification or other Authorization decision or any applicable court order or stay, compliance therewith pending the prosecution of any such proceeding may legally be delayed (a) without the incurrence of any lien, charge or liability of any kind against the applicable Facility or Lessor's interest therein, (b) without any loss of licensure, certification or other Authorization that would materially and adversely impair Tenant's ability to continue to operate the affected Facility in accordance with its Primary Intended Use during Tenant's contest, and (c) without subjecting Lessor to any liability, civil or criminal, for failure so to comply therewith, Tenant may delay compliance therewith until the final unappealable determination of such proceeding, , , if any such lien, charge or civil or criminal liability would be incurred by reason of any such delay, Tenant may nonetheless contest as aforesaid and delay as aforesaid provided that such delay would not subject Lessor to criminal liability and Tenant (i) furnishes to Lessor security reasonably satisfactory to Lessor against any loss or injury by reason of such contest or delay, (ii) prosecutes the contest with due diligence and in good faith, and (iii) keeps Lessor informed, and provides additional documentation and information, relative to such contest as described above. Following the final unappealable determination of any such proceeding adversely to Lessor or Tenant, Tenant shall comply with all requirements of such determination in accordance with .
provided
however
Section 12.1(g)
 
.
Section 8.3
Permitted Encumbrances
 
Subject to hereof, Tenant shall, at its own cost and expense, fully observe, perform and comply with all Permitted Encumbrances as the same apply to or bind Lessor or any of the Leased Properties. Subject to hereof, Tenant shall not cause, or permit its respective agents, employees, contractors, invitees, subtenants, licensees, concessionaires or assigns (whether or not permitted hereunder) to cause, whether by act or omission, any breach of, default under or termination of any Permitted Encumbrance applicable to or binding upon Lessor or any of the Leased Properties. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in or elsewhere in this Lease but subject to hereof, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred under this Lease on account of Tenant's breach of this , when, but only if, (a) Tenant's breach of this also results in a breach or default of an obligation under a Permitted Encumbrance, (b) such Permitted Encumbrance breach or default is not cured by Tenant on or prior to the expiration of the cure period, if any, applicable to such breach or default by the terms of the instrument creating such Permitted Encumbrance (or such longer cure period as may be expressly authorized by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction), and (c) on account of such Permitted Encumbrance breach or default, a real property interest, or a covenant, condition, restriction, license or other beneficial right, created under such Permitted Encumbrance and benefiting Lessor or a Leased Property is terminated or otherwise lost or at material risk of being terminated or otherwise lost. Lessor agrees that, in the event Lessor receives any written notice of default from a party to a Permitted Encumbrance, Lessor shall promptly forward a copy thereof to Tenant. Tenant agrees that, if Lessor, at its option, elects to cure an Event of Default by Tenant under this , such cure shall not excuse Tenant from, or be deemed a cure of, such Event of Default, nor shall Tenant's reimbursement to Lessor of any costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in effecting any such cure be deemed a cure of any such Event of Default, , , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, even after the occurrence of such an Event of Default by Tenant
Section 8.3.1
Section 7.3.2
Section 7.3.2
Section 16.1
Section 7.3.2
Section 8.3.1
Section 8.3.1
Section 8.3.1
provided
however
 
and/or Lessor's cure thereof, Lessor agrees to accept Tenant's cure thereof, or reimbursement of Lessor's costs and expenses to effect such cure, provided, and on the condition, that Lessor has not, prior thereto, terminated this Lease as it affects the Leased Property to which such Permitted Encumbrance relates or dispossessed Tenant from such Leased Property. Nothing contained in this shall limit or impair Lessor's indemnification rights under below.
Section 8.3
Section 24.1
 
If (a) a Permitted Encumbrance breach or default of the nature described in above occurs, and (b) on account thereof, if the same is not cured, the condition referenced in above would, or is likely to, be satisfied, Tenant agrees that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in below or elsewhere in this Lease, Lessor may, but shall not be obligated to, in its discretion and regardless of whether Tenant is proceeding to cure, or attempting to cure, the Permitted Encumbrance breach or default referenced in above or whether the cure period referenced in above has expired or is likely to expire before completion of necessary cure efforts, take such actions as it deems necessary or appropriate to attempt to cure such Permitted Encumbrance breach or default, , , that, if the breach or default referenced in subsection (a) above has applicable thereto, by the express terms of the applicable Permitted Encumbrance, a stated period to cure the same, Lessor agrees not to commence to cure such breach or default unless and until one-half (1/2) of the aforesaid stated cure period has elapsed. If Lessor so proceeds to attempt to cure any such Permitted Encumbrance breach or default, Tenant agrees, within fifteen (15) days following receipt of a written demand therefor and reasonable supporting documentation, to reimburse Lessor for the reasonable amount of all costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in curing, or attempting to cure, any such Permitted Encumbrance breach or default.
Section 8.3.2
Section 8.3.1(a)
Section 8.3.1(c)
Section 17.1
Section 8.3.1(a)
Section 8.3.1(b)
provided
however
 
 
.
Section 9.1
Maintenance and Repair
 
(a) Tenant, at its expense, shall keep each Leased Property and all private roadways, sidewalks and curbs appurtenant thereto and which are under Tenant's control (and Tenant's Personal Property) in good order and repair, reasonable wear and tear excepted (whether or not the need for such repairs occurs as a result of Tenant's use, any prior use, the elements or the age of such Leased Property, Tenant's Personal Property, or any portion thereof), and, except as otherwise provided in , shall promptly make all necessary and appropriate repairs and replacements thereto, of every kind and nature, whether interior or exterior, structural or non-structural, ordinary or extraordinary, foreseen or unforeseen or arising by reason of a condition existing prior to the commencement of the Term (concealed or otherwise). All repairs shall, to the extent reasonably achievable, be made in good, workmanlike and first-class manner, in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local statutes, ordinances, by-laws, codes, rules and regulations relating to such work. Tenant will not take or omit to take any action the taking or omission of which might materially impair the value or usefulness of the applicable Leased Property or any part thereof for its Primary Intended Use.
Article XIV
 
(b) Lessor shall not under any circumstances be required to build or rebuild any improvements on any Leased Property, or to make any repairs, replacements, alterations, restorations or renewals of any nature or description to the applicable Leased Property, whether
 
ordinary or extraordinary, structural or non-structural, foreseen or unforeseen, or to make any expenditure whatsoever with respect thereto, in connection with this Lease, or to maintain any Leased Property in any way, except as expressly provided herein. Tenant hereby waives, to the extent permitted by law, the right to make repairs at the expense of Lessor pursuant to any law in effect at the time of the execution of this Lease or thereafter enacted.
 
(c) Except as expressly set forth in this Lease, nothing contained in this Lease and no action or inaction by Lessor shall be construed as (i) constituting the consent or request of Lessor, express or implied, to any contractor, subcontractor, laborer, materialman or vendor to or for the performance of any labor or services or the furnishing of any materials or other property for the construction, alteration, addition, repair or demolition of or to any Leased Property or any part thereof, or (ii) giving Tenant any right, power or permission to contract for or permit the performance of any labor or services or the furnishing of any materials or other property in such fashion as would permit the making of any claim against Lessor in respect thereof or to make any agreement that may create, or in any way be the basis for, any right, title, interest, lien, claim or other encumbrance upon the estate of Lessor in any Leased Property, or any portion thereof.
 
(d) Tenant will, upon the expiration or prior termination of the Term, vacate and surrender the applicable Leased Property to Lessor in the condition in which such Leased Property was originally received from Lessor, except as repaired, rebuilt, restored, altered or added to as permitted or required by the provisions of this Lease and except for ordinary wear and tear (subject to the obligation of Tenant to maintain the Leased Property in good order and repair during the entire Term).
 
(e) Tenant shall establish and maintain any reserve accounts reasonably required by a Superior Mortgagee for deferred maintenance conditions and for capital expenditures at the Leased Property.
 
. If any of the Leased Improvements on any Leased Property shall, at any time, encroach upon any property, street or right-of-way adjacent to such Leased Property, then, promptly upon the request of Lessor or at the behest of any person affected by any such encroachment, Tenant shall, at its expense, subject to its right to contest the existence of any encroachment and, in such case, in the event of any adverse final determination, either (i) obtain valid and effective waivers or settlements of all claims, liabilities and damages resulting from each such encroachment, whether the same shall affect Lessor or Tenant, or (ii) make such changes in the Leased Improvements, and take such other actions, as Tenant, in good faith exercise of its judgment deems reasonably practicable, to remove such encroachment, including, if necessary, the alteration of any of the Leased Improvements, and in any event take all such actions as may be necessary in order to be able to continue the operation of the Leased Improvements for the Primary Intended Use substantially in the manner and to the extent the Leased Improvements were operated prior to the assertion of such encroachment. Any such alteration shall be made in conformity with the applicable requirements of . Tenant's obligations under this shall be in addition to and shall in no way discharge or diminish any obligation of any insurer under any policy of title or other insurance and Tenant shall not be entitled to a credit for any sums recovered by Lessor under any such policy of title or other insurance.
Section 9.2
Encroachments
Article X
Section 9.2
 
 
. Tenant shall not, without the prior written consent of Lessor, which consent, except as expressly set forth below relative to tie in/connecting Capital Alterations of the nature described below, shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned, construct or install Capital Alterations on any Leased Property. In the event that Tenant wishes to construct or install any Capital Alteration, Tenant shall submit to Lessor in writing a proposal setting forth in reasonable detail such Capital Alteration and shall provide to Lessor for approval such plans and specifications, permits, licenses, contracts, construction schedules, construction budgets and other information concerning the proposed Capital Alteration as Lessor may reasonably request showing in reasonable detail the scope and nature of the Capital Alteration that Tenant desires to construct (collectively the ""). It is the intent of the parties hereto that the level of detail shall be comparable to that which is referred to in the architectural profession as "design development drawings" as opposed to working or biddable drawings. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such proposal shall indicate the approximate projected cost of constructing such Capital Alteration and the use or uses to which it will be put. In the event that Lessor consents in writing to any Capital Alteration, prior to commencing construction of any Capital Alteration, Tenant shall first request Lessor to provide funds to pay for such Capital Alteration in accordance with the provisions of . If Lessor declines or is unable to provide such financing on terms acceptable to Tenant, Tenant shall provide to Lessor, prior to commencement of any construction, proof reasonably acceptable to Lessor that Tenant has sufficient capital to complete the construction. Furthermore, no Capital Alteration shall be made which would tie in or connect any Leased Improvements on a Leased Property with any other improvements on property adjacent to such Leased Property (and not part of the Land covered by this Lease) including, without limitation, tie-ins of buildings or other structures or utilities, unless Tenant shall have obtained the prior written approval of Lessor, which approval in Lessor's sole discretion may be granted, withheld, delayed or conditioned. Tenant shall reimburse Lessor for all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in reviewing the proposal and the Plans and Specifications for a Capital Alteration and for inspecting the applicable Leased Property and otherwise monitoring the construction of the Capital Alteration, including, without limitation, the reasonable cost of engaging consultants to assist Lessor in connection with any or all of the foregoing.
Section 10.1
Construction of Capital Alterations to the Leased Property(ies)
Plans and Specifications
Section 10.3
 
. If Tenant provides or arranges such financing, there shall be no adjustment in Base Rent by reason of any such Capital Alteration.
Section 10.2
Capital Alterations Financed by Tenant
 
.
Section 10.3
Capital Alterations Financed by Lessor
 
(a) Tenant shall request that Lessor provide or arrange financing for a Capital Alteration by providing to Lessor such information about the Capital Alteration as Lessor may reasonably request including without limitation all information referred to in above. Lessor may, but shall be under no obligation to, obtain the funds necessary to meet the request. Within sixty (60) days after receipt of a request, Lessor shall notify Tenant as to whether it will finance the proposed Capital Alteration and, if so, the terms and conditions upon which it would do so, including the terms of any amendment to this Lease. In no event shall the portion of the
Section 10.1
 
projected Capital Alterations Cost comprised of land, if any, materials, labor charges and fixtures be less than ninety percent (90%) of the total amount of such cost. Tenant may withdraw its request by notice to Lessor at any time before or after receipt of Lessor's terms and conditions. If Tenant desires to accept Lessor's offer to finance the proposed Capital Alteration, Tenant shall notify Lessor within thirty (30) days after Tenant's receipt of Lessor's offer.
 
(b) If Lessor agrees to finance the proposed Capital Alteration, Tenant shall provide Lessor with the following prior to any advance of funds:
 
(i) all customary or other reasonably required loan documentation;
 
(ii) any information, certificates, licenses, permits or documents requested by either Lessor or any third party lender with whom Lessor has agreed or may agree to provide financing which are necessary to confirm that Tenant will be able to use the Capital Alteration upon completion thereof in accordance with the Primary Intended Use, including all required federal, state or local government licenses and approvals;
 
(iii) an Officer's Certificate and, if requested, a certificate from Tenant's architect, setting forth in reasonable detail the projected (or actual, if available) cost of the proposed Capital Alteration;
 
(iv) an amendment to this Lease, duly executed and acknowledged, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lessor and Tenant, providing for (1) any change in the Rent that is set forth in Lessor's offer to finance and accepted by Tenant, any change in the legal description of the Land, and any change in hereof (including any and all allocations of Rent and Transferred Property Percentages contained therein) that is appropriate on account of any change in the Rent as aforesaid (specifically, Lessor's and Tenant's agreed upon changes to the Base Rent allocable to the affected Leased Property(ies), if any, shall be incorporated into an amended , and the Transferred Property Percentages allocable to all of the Leased Properties shall then be recalculated and incorporated into such amended ) and (2) any other Lease amendments as may be necessary or appropriate;
Exhibit C
Exhibit C
Exhibit C
 
(v) a deed (in the customary form used to convey commercial properties within the relevant jurisdiction) conveying title to Lessor to any land acquired for the purpose of constructing the Capital Alterations free and clear of any liens or encumbrances except those approved by Lessor, accompanied by a final as-built survey thereof satisfactory to Lessor if reasonably required by Lessor;
 
(vi) endorsements to any outstanding policy of title insurance, if any, covering the applicable Leased Property or commitments therefor satisfactory in form and substance to Lessor (A) updating the same without any additional exception except as may be permitted by Lessor; and (B) increasing the coverage thereof by an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of the Capital Alteration (except to the extent covered by the owner's policy of title insurance referred to in subsection (vii) below);
 
(vii) if appropriate, (A) an owner's policy of title insurance insuring fee simple title to any land conveyed to Lessor pursuant to subsection (v) free and clear of all liens
 
and encumbrances except those approved by Lessor and (B) a lender's policy of title insurance satisfactory in form and substance to Lessor and the lending institution advancing any portion of the Capital Alterations Cost;
 
(viii) if deemed necessary by Lessor, an M.A.I. appraisal of the Leased Property indicating that the value of the applicable Leased Property upon completion of the Capital Alteration exceeds the Fair Market Value thereof prior thereto by an amount not less than 95% of the Capital Alterations Cost; and
 
(ix) such other certificates (including, but not limited to, endorsements increasing the insurance coverage, if any, at the time required by ), documents, opinions of counsel, appraisals, surveys, certified copies of duly adopted resolutions of the Board of Directors of Tenant authorizing the execution and delivery of the lease amendment and any other instruments as may be reasonably required by Lessor and any lending institution advancing or reimbursing Tenant for any portion of the Capital Alterations Cost.
Section 13.1
 
(c) Upon making a request to finance a Capital Alteration, if and when such financing is actually consummated, Tenant shall pay or agree to pay all reasonable costs and expenses of Lessor and any Lending Institution which has committed to finance such Capital Alteration paid or incurred by them in connection with the financing of the Capital Alterations, including, but not limited to, (i) the reasonable fees and expenses of their respective counsel, (ii) all printing expenses, (iii) the amount of any filing, registration and recording taxes and fees, (iv) documentary stamp taxes, if any, (v) title insurance and survey charges, appraisal fees, if any, and rating agency fees, if any, (vi) any other applicable consulting fees (including without limitation engineering and environmental), and (vii) commitment fees, if any.
 
. Tenant shall have the right to make additions, modifications or improvements to any Leased Property which are not Capital Alterations ("") from time to time as it, in its discretion, may deem to be desirable for its uses and purposes, provided that such action will not alter the character or purpose or detract from the value or operating efficiency thereof and will not impair the revenue producing capability of the affected Leased Property or adversely affect the ability of Tenant to comply with the provisions of this Lease. The cost of such Non-Capital Alterations, modifications or improvements to a Leased Property shall be paid by Tenant.
Section 10.4
Non-Capital Alterations
Non-Capital Alterations
 
. All materials which are scrapped or removed in connection with the making of either Capital Alterations permitted by or Non-Capital Alterations permitted by or repairs required by shall be or become the property of Lessor or Tenant depending on which party is paying for, or providing the financing for, such work.
Section 10.5
Salvage
Section 10.1
Section 10.4
Article IX
 
. Tenant shall comply with the following requirements in connection with Permitted Alterations:
Section 10.6
Additional Requirements for Capital Alterations and Non-Capital Alterations
 
(a) In the case of Capital Alterations, the Permitted Alteration shall be made substantially in accordance with the Plans and Specifications submitted to Lessor, to the extent applicable.
 
(b) The Permitted Alterations and the installation thereof shall comply with all applicable Legal Requirements and all Insurance Requirements.
 
(c) The Permitted Alterations shall be performed in a good and workmanlike manner, shall not impair the value or the structural integrity of the applicable Leased Property, and shall be free and clear of mechanic's liens.
 
(d) Intentionally omitted.
 
(e) Tenant shall, at Tenant's expense, obtain a builder's completed value risk policy of insurance insuring against the risks of physical loss, including collapse and transit coverage, in a nonreporting form, covering the total value of the work performed, and equipment, supplies and materials, and insuring initial occupancy. Lessor and any Facility Mortgagee shall be additional named insureds of such policy. Lessor shall have the right to approve the form and substance of such policy, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned.
 
(f) Tenant shall pay the premiums required to increase the amount of insurance coverages required by to reflect the increased value of the applicable Leased Property resulting from the Permitted Alterations, and shall deliver to Lessor a certificate evidencing the increase in coverage.
Article XIII
 
(g) In the case of Capital Alterations, Tenant shall, not less than sixty (60) days after completion of the Capital Alterations, deliver to Lessor a revised "as-built" set of Plans and Specifications for the Capital Alterations in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lessor.
 
(h) In the case of Capital Alterations, Tenant shall, not later than thirty (30) days after Lessor sends an invoice, reimburse Lessor for any reasonable costs and expenses, including attorneys' fees and architects' and engineers' fees, incurred in connection with reviewing proposed Capital Alterations and ensuring Tenant's compliance with the terms of this .
Article X
 
(i) All Capital Alterations and Non-Capital Alterations shall, without payment by Lessor at any time (other than as expressly agreed by Lessor pursuant to above), be included under the terms of this Lease and upon expiration or earlier termination of this Lease shall pass to and become the property of Lessor free and clear of all encumbrances, other than Permitted Encumbrances.
Section 10.3
 
(j) Except as expressly agreed by Lessor and Tenant pursuant to above, (1) there shall be no adjustment in Base Rent by reason of any Capital Alteration or Non-Capital Alteration and (2) no Capital Alteration or Non-Capital Alteration shall be treated by Lessor or Tenant as rent, or amounts in lieu of rent, paid by Tenant, or any other kind of gross income to Lessor, for income tax purposes.
Section 10.3(b)(iv)
 
. Tenant shall not commence construction of any Capital Alteration until Lessor shall have obtained the consent of any applicable Facility Mortgagee or Superior Lessor, if such consent is required. Lessor agrees to use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain promptly any such consent, if such consent is necessary.
Section 10.7
Mortgagee's Consent
 
 
. Subject to the provisions of relating to permitted contests, Tenant will not directly or indirectly create or allow to remain and will promptly discharge at its expense any lien, encumbrance, attachment, title retention agreement or claim upon any Leased Property or any attachment, levy, claim or encumbrance in respect of the Rent, not including, however, (a) Permitted Encumbrances, (b) restrictions, liens and other encumbrances which are consented to in writing by Lessor, or any easements granted pursuant to the provisions of this Lease, (c) liens for those taxes of Lessor which Tenant is not required to pay hereunder, (d) subleases permitted by , (e) liens for Impositions or for sums resulting from noncompliance with Legal Requirements so long as (1) the same are not yet payable or are payable without the addition of any fine or penalty or (2) such liens are in the process of being contested as permitted by , (f) liens of mechanics, laborers, materialmen, suppliers or vendors for sums either disputed in good faith or not yet due, provided that (1) the payment of such sums shall not be postponed under any related contract for more than sixty (60) days after the completion of the action giving rise to such lien and such reserve or other appropriate provisions as shall be required by law or generally accepted accounting principles shall have been made therefor or (2) any such liens are in the process of being contested as permitted by , and (g) any liens which are the responsibility of Lessor pursuant to the provisions of . Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall bond over any lien affecting the applicable Leased Property if Lessor shall reasonably request, or if any applicable Facility Mortgagee shall so require.
Section 11.1
Liens
Article XII
Article XXV
Article XII
Article XII
Article XXXVIII
 
 
. Tenant, on its own or on Lessor's behalf (or in Lessor's name), but at Tenant's expense, may contest, by appropriate legal proceedings conducted in good faith and with due diligence, the amount or validity or application, in whole or in part, of any Imposition or any Legal Requirement or any lien, attachment, levy, encumbrance, charge or claim not otherwise permitted by , provided that (a) in the case of an unpaid Imposition, lien, attachment, levy, encumbrance, charge, or claim, the commencement and continuation of such proceedings shall suspend the collection thereof from Lessor and from the applicable Leased Property, (b) neither the applicable Leased Property nor any Rent therefrom nor any part thereof or interest therein would be reasonably likely to be in danger of being sold, forfeited, attached or lost, (c) in the case of a Legal Requirement, Lessor would not be in any immediate danger of criminal liability for failure to comply therewith pending the outcome of such proceedings and the contest provisions of have been satisfied, (d) Tenant shall indemnify and hold harmless Lessor from and against any cost, claim, damage, penalty or reasonable expense, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by Tenant in connection therewith or as a result thereof, (e) in the case of a Legal Requirement and/or Imposition, lien, encumbrance or charge, Tenant shall give such reasonable security as may be demanded by Lessor to insure ultimate payment of or compliance with the same and to prevent any sale or
Section 12.1
Permitted Contests
Article XI
Section 8.2
 
forfeiture of the affected Leased Property or the Rent by reason of such non-payment or non-compliance, , , the provisions of this shall not be construed to permit Tenant to contest the payment of Rent (except as to contests concerning the method of computation or the basis of levy of any Imposition or the basis for the assertion of any other claim) or any other sums payable by Tenant to Lessor hereunder, (f) in the case of an Insurance Requirement, the coverage required by shall be maintained, and (g) if such contest is resolved against Lessor or Tenant by a final unappealable determination, Tenant shall, as Additional Charges due hereunder, pay to the appropriate payee the amount required to be paid, together with all interest and penalties accrued thereon, within ten (10) days after such determination (or within such shorter period as may be required by the terms of such determination), and comply, within any cure period allowed therefor by the applicable agency or authority (or if no such cure period shall be allowed or specified by the applicable agency or authority, promptly and diligently following the effective date of such determination and, in any event, prior to the final unappealable revocation of any license, permit, approval, certificate of need, certificate for reimbursement or other Authorization), with the applicable Legal Requirement, Insurance Requirement, plan of correction or other remedial requirements of the applicable agency or authority; , , that this subsection (g) is not intended, and shall not be construed, to afford Tenant any cure or grace period beyond the effective date of any final unappealable determination, unless and only to the extent that (i) such determination specifically conditions the imposition or taking effect of the adverse legal, regulatory or other consequences in issue upon Tenant's failure to make a specified payment or to take specified compliance, curative or remedial action following the effective date of such determination or (ii) Tenant is proceeding diligently and in good faith to effect an assignment or sublet under hereof and the applicable agency(ies) or authority(ies) is not enforcing such final order, pending consummation of such assignment or sublet. Lessor, at Tenant's expense, shall execute and deliver to Tenant such authorizations and other documents as may reasonably be required in any such contest, and, if reasonably requested by Tenant or if Lessor so desires, Lessor shall join as a party therein. Tenant shall indemnify and save Lessor harmless against any liability, cost or expense of any kind that may be imposed upon Lessor in connection with any such contest and any loss resulting therefrom.
provided
however
Article XII
Article XIII
provided
however
Section 25.1.11
 
 
. During the Term, Tenant shall at all times keep each Leased Property, and all property located in or on any Leased Property, including Leasehold Improvements, Fixtures and Tenant's Personal Property, insured with the kinds and amounts of insurance described below. This insurance shall be written by companies authorized to do insurance business in the State in which the applicable Leased Property is located, which companies shall have a rating at least as high as the rating required by any applicable Facility Mortgagee. The policies must name as loss payee (i) the holder of any mortgage, deed of trust or other security agreement ("") securing any Encumbrance placed on the applicable Leased Property in accordance with the provisions of ("") by way of a standard form of mortgagee's loss payable endorsement or (ii) if no such Facility Mortgage encumbers the applicable Leased Property, Lessor and, in the case of any commercial general liability and/or umbrella liability insurance coverages, must name Lessor and any Superior Mortgagee(s) as additional insureds. Losses shall be payable to Lessor and/or Superior Mortgagee as provided in . Any loss
Section 13.1
General Insurance Requirements
Facility Mortgagee
Article XXXVIII
Facility Mortgage
Article XIV
 
adjustment shall require the written consent of Lessor, Tenant, Leasehold Mortgagee and Facility Mortgagee whenever the loss exceeds twenty percent (20%) of the Facility's Fair Market Value. Evidence of insurance shall be deposited with Lessor and, if requested, with any Superior Lessor, Leasehold Mortgagee and Facility Mortgagee(s). If any provision of any Facility Mortgage requires deposits of insurance premiums to be made with such Facility Mortgagee, Tenant shall either pay to Lessor monthly the amounts required and Lessor shall transfer such amounts to each Facility Mortgagee, or, pursuant to written direction by Lessor, Tenant shall make such deposits directly with such Facility Mortgagee. The policies on each Leased Property, including the Leasehold Improvements, and Fixtures and Tenant's Personal Property, shall insure against the following risks:
 
Loss or damage by fire, vandalism and malicious mischief, extended coverage perils commonly known as "All Risk", including flood, the backup of sewers and drains, earthquake, breakage of plate glass and all physical loss perils including but not limited to sprinkler leakage, in an amount not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the then full replacement cost thereof (as defined below in ), subject to no coinsurance requirement or on an agreed amount basis;
Section 13.1.1
Section 13.2
 
Broad form comprehensive boiler and machinery insurance, on a blanket repair and replace basis, with limits for each accident in an amount not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the then full replacement cost (as defined in ) of the Leased Property;
Section 13.1.2
Section 13.2
 
Business Interruption insurance on a Business Interruption, Gross Profits or Gross Rents form, including all standing charges, with a period of indemnity of no less than twelve (12) months, resulting from loss or damage as described in or , subject to no coinsurance requirement or on an agreed amount basis;
Section 13.1.3
Section 13.1.1
13.1.2
 
Claims for bodily injury, including death resulting therefrom, personal injury and property damage on an occurrence basis, under a policy of commercial general liability ("CGL") insurance (including, without limitation, broad form property damage and broad form contractual liability) for a limit of not less than Fifty Million and No/100 Dollars ($50,000,000.00) per occurrence, combined single limit. Relative to the insurance referenced in this , Tenant shall be permitted to use a claims made policy form rather than an occurrence based policy form for its primary, and/or its excess liability, CGL insurance, only if:
Section 13.1.4
Section 13.1.4
 
(a) an occurrence based form of primary or excess liability, as applicable, CGL insurance policy cannot be obtained solely because occurrence based forms of primary or excess liability, as applicable, CGL insurance are not offered in the insurance market place for for-profit hospital and/or nursing center companies or
 
(b) a majority of the five (5) largest (determined by revenue) companies (exclusive of Tenant) in the for-profit hospital and/or nursing center industry maintain claims made forms of primary or excess liability, as applicable, CGL insurance for their primary or excess liability, as applicable, CGL insurance policies.
 
(For example, relative to the foregoing conditions, if occurrence based forms of primary CGL insurance are offered in the insurance market place for for-profit hospital and/or nursing center companies, but Tenant is unable to obtain an occurrence based form of excess liability CGL insurance solely because occurrence based forms of excess liability CGL insurance are not offered in the insurance market place for for-profit hospital and/or nursing center companies, and a majority of the aforesaid five largest companies maintain occurrence based forms of primary CGL insurance and claims made forms of excess liability CGL insurance, a claims made form of excess liability CGL insurance would be permitted subject to compliance with the other requirements of this , but a claims made form of primary CGL insurance would not be permitted). Prior to making any such switch to or renewing any claims made policy, Tenant shall be obligated to provide to Lessor supporting evidence demonstrating the existence of condition (a) or (b), and the sufficiency of such evidence shall be subject to the advance written approval of Lessor, in its reasonable discretion. If Tenant so switches to a claims made form of policy, in addition to complying with the requirements referenced below in this , Tenant shall be obligated to switch back to occurrence based coverage at the end of the then current claims made policy term unless condition (a) or (b) exists as demonstrated by supporting evidence reasonably approved in advance and in writing by Lessor. If Tenant satisfies the above referenced tests for switching to, or continuing to maintain, a claims made form of policy, any claims made policy that it purchases must include therein the right to purchase a "tail" that insures against so called "incurred but not reported claims" for a period of at least three (3) years following the expiration of such claims made policy. In addition, from and after any such switch to a claims made form of policy, Tenant must, after the expiration of each claims made policy that Tenant obtains, as to each such expiring claims made policy, either:
Section 13.1.4
Section 13.1.4
 
(i) continue to insure Lessor and all Facility Mortgagees and Superior Lessors with the required amount of primary and/or excess liability, as applicable depending upon the nature of such expiring claims made policy, CGL insurance coverage, on a claims made policy form that includes coverage against all so-called "incurred but not reported claims" relating to any period on or prior to the expiration of the expiring policy ("Previous Period Unreported Claims"), an additional ten (10) years following the expiration of such expiring claims made policy (which coverage may be obtained, for example, (A) through the renewal or rolling-over of a claims made based CGL policy providing the required amounts of coverage and including coverage against Previous Period Unreported Claims for consecutive 1-year periods for such ten (10) year period, or (B) through the purchase of a three (3) year claims made based CGL "tail" policy providing the required amounts of coverage and including coverage against Previous Period Unreported Claims followed by purchases of claims made based CGL policies providing the required amounts of coverage and including coverage against all Previous Period Unreported Claims for consecutive 1-year periods for the remaining seven (7) years of such ten (10) year period) (in connection with the purchase of claims made CGL insurance coverage pursuant to this subsection (i), any claims made CGL insurance coverage that is obtained by Tenant may exclude therefrom any claims incurred during any period that an occurrence based form of primary or excess liability, as applicable depending on the nature of the expiring claims made policy, CGL insurance policy providing the required amounts of coverage and insuring Lessor and all Facility Mortgagees and Superior Lessors was in effect), or
 
(ii) insure Lessor and all Facility Mortgagees and Superior Lessors by obtaining the required amount of primary and/or excess liability, as applicable, CGL insurance on an occurrence based policy form that includes therein as insured claims all claims (x) incurred prior to the inception of such occurrence based CGL insurance policy and after the latest of (1) April 20, 2001, (2) the date that is ten (10) years prior to the inception of such occurrence based CGL insurance policy or (3) the day preceding the date that Tenant, pursuant to the terms of this , first switched to a claims made form of primary or excess liability, as applicable depending on the nature of such expiring claims made policy, CGL insurance policy (relative to the period described in this subsection (ii)(x), any occurrence based CGL policy that is obtained by Tenant pursuant to this subsection (ii) may exclude therefrom any claims incurred during any period that an occurrence based form of primary or excess liability, as applicable depending on the nature of the expiring claims made policy, CGL insurance policy providing the required amounts of coverage and insuring Lessor and all Facility Mortgagees and Superior Lessors was in effect) and (y) not yet reported prior to such inception;
Section 13.1.4
 
Claims arising out of malpractice in an amount not less than Twenty Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($25,000,000.00) for each person and for each claim in the aggregate;
Section 13.1.5
 
Intentionally Omitted;
Section 13.1.6
 
Intentionally Omitted;
Section 13.1.7
 
Loss or damage commonly covered by blanket crime insurance including employee dishonesty, loss of money orders or paper currency, depositor's forgery, in commercially reasonable amounts acceptable to Lessor for a limit of not less than Five Million and No/100 Dollars ($5,000,000.00).
Section 13.1.8
 
. The term "full replacement cost," as used herein, shall mean the actual replacement cost of the property requiring replacement from time to time including an increased cost of construction endorsement, without reduction or deduction for depreciation. Tenant shall have the full replacement cost redetermined by an accredited appraiser approved by Lessor (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned), hereinafter referred to as "impartial appraiser", every five years during the Term, and at such other times that either party believes that full replacement cost has increased or decreased. Tenant shall forthwith, on receipt of such determination by such impartial appraiser, give written notice thereof to Lessor. The determination of such impartial appraiser shall be final and binding on the parties hereto, and Tenant shall forthwith increase, or may decrease, the amount of the insurance carried pursuant to this Section, as the case may be, to the amount so determined by the impartial appraiser. Each party shall pay one-half () of the fee, if any, of the impartial appraiser.
Section 13.2
Replacement Cost
 
. In addition to the insurance described above, Tenant shall maintain such additional insurance as may reasonably be required from time to time by any Facility Mortgagee and, further, shall at all times maintain adequate worker's
Section 13.3
Additional Insurance
 
compensation insurance coverage for all persons employed by Tenant on each Leased Property. Such worker's compensation insurance shall be in accordance with the requirements of applicable local, state and federal law.
 
. Lessor and Tenant agree that (insofar as and to the extent that such agreement may be effective without invalidating or making it impossible to secure insurance coverage from responsible insurance companies doing business in the State) with respect to any property loss that is covered by insurance then being carried by Lessor or Tenant, respectively, the party carrying such insurance and suffering said loss releases the other of and from any and all claims with respect to such loss where such insurance is valid and collectible respecting any such loss; and they further agree that their respective insurance companies shall have no right of subrogation against the other on account thereof, even though extra premium may result therefrom. Nothing contained herein is intended, nor shall it be construed, to require that Lessor maintain any insurance coverage.
Section 13.4
Waiver of Subrogation
 
All of the policies of insurance referred to in this Section shall be written in form satisfactory to Lessor and any Superior Lessor and Facility Mortgagee and by insurance companies satisfactory to Lessor and any Superior Lessor and Facility Mortgagee. Lessor agrees that it will not unreasonably withhold, delay or condition its approval as to the form of the policies of insurance or as to the insurance companies selected by Tenant. Tenant shall pay all of the premiums therefor not later than the earlier of the date which is thirty (30) days after Tenant's receipt of an invoice therefor or the due date of the applicable premium, and shall deliver such policies or certificates thereof to Lessor prior to their effective date (and, with respect to any renewal policy, prior to the expiration of the existing policy), and in the event of the failure of Tenant either to effect such insurance in the names herein called for or to pay the premiums therefor, or to deliver such policies or certificates thereof to Lessor and each Superior Lessor and Facility Mortgagee at the times required, Lessor shall be entitled, but shall have no obligation, to effect such insurance and pay the premiums therefor, which premiums shall be repayable to Lessor upon written demand therefor, and failure to repay the same shall constitute an Event of Default within the meaning of . Each insurer mentioned in this Section shall agree, by endorsement on the policy or policies issued by it, or by independent instrument furnished to Lessor and any Superior Lessor and Facility Mortgagee, that it will give to Lessor thirty (30) days' written notice before the policy or policies in question shall be materially altered, allowed to expire or canceled.
Section 13.5
Form Satisfactory, etc.
Section 16.1(c)
 
. In the event that either party shall at any time deem the limits of the personal injury or property damage public liability insurance then carried to be either excessive or insufficient or in the event that Lessor shall at any time deem the deductible amount under any insurance then carried by Tenant pursuant to this to be excessive, the parties shall endeavor to agree on the proper and reasonable limits or deductible amount, as applicable, for such insurance to be carried; and such insurance shall thereafter be carried with the limits or deductible amount, as applicable, thus agreed on until further change pursuant to the provisions of this Section. If the parties shall be unable to agree thereon, the proper and reasonable limits or deductible amount, as applicable, for such insurance to be carried shall be determined by an impartial third party selected by the parties. Nothing herein shall permit the amount of insurance to be reduced below, or the deductible amount under any insurance carried
Section 13.6
Limits; Deductibles
Article XIII
 
by Tenant pursuant to this to be increased above, the amount or amounts required by any of the Facility Mortgages or by any Superior Lessor.
Article XIII
 
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section but subject to any requirements of any applicable Facility Mortgagee, Tenant's obligations to carry the insurance provided for herein may be brought within the coverage of a so-called blanket policy or policies of insurance carried and maintained by Tenant; , , that the coverage afforded Lessor will not be reduced or diminished or otherwise be different from that which would exist under a separate policy meeting all other requirements of this Lease by reason of the use of such blanket policy of insurance, and provided further that the requirements of this are otherwise satisfied. Lessor agrees that the blanket coverage described in attached hereto and incorporated herein satisfied the requirements of as of the Effective Date.
Section 13.7
Blanket Policy
provided
however
Article XIII
Schedule 13.7
Section 13.1
 
. Tenant shall not on Tenant's own initiative or pursuant to the request or requirement of any third party, take out separate insurance concurrent in form or contributing in the event of loss with that required in this Article, or increase the amounts of any then existing insurance by securing an additional policy or additional policies, unless all parties having an insurable interest in the subject matter of the insurance, including in all cases Lessor and all Superior Lessors and Facility Mortgagees, are included therein as additional insureds, and the loss is payable under said insurance in the same manner as losses are payable under this Lease. Tenant shall immediately notify Lessor of the taking out of any such separate insurance or of the increasing of any of the amounts of the then existing insurance by securing an additional policy or additional policies.
Section 13.8
No Separate Insurance
 
. All of Tenant's obligations under this or otherwise relating to obtaining, and maintaining, claims made coverages, and/or switching back to occurrence based coverage, shall survive the expiration or termination of this Lease as it applies to any or all of the Leased Properties.
Section 13.9
Survival
Article XIII
 
 
. All proceeds payable by reason of any loss or damage to the applicable Leased Property, or any portion thereof, and insured under any policy of insurance required by (excluding Business Interruption Insurance, as described in , covering Tenant's obligations under this Lease for the payment of Rent, the disposition of the proceeds of which is described below) shall be paid to Lessor or a third party designated by Lessor and held by Lessor or such third party in trust and shall be made available for reconstruction or repair, as the case may be, of any damage to or destruction of the Leased Property, or any portion thereof, and shall be paid out by Lessor or such third party from time to time for the reasonable costs of such reconstruction or repair. Any excess proceeds of insurance remaining after the completion of the restoration or reconstruction shall be paid to Tenant upon completion of any such repair and restoration, except that, in the event neither Lessor nor Tenant is required or elects to repair and restore as aforesaid, all such insurance proceeds shall be retained by Lessor free and clear (except as otherwise provided in ). All salvage resulting from any risk covered by insurance shall belong to Lessor except that any salvage relating to Tenant's Personal Property shall belong to Tenant. All proceeds of the aforesaid
Section 14.1
Insurance Proceeds
Article XIII
Section 13.1.3
Section 14.2.4
 
Business Interruption Insurance shall be paid to Lessor or a third party designated by Lessor and held by Lessor or such third party in trust. Business Interruption Insurance proceeds shall be applied first towards payment of any Rent that is due to Lessor as of the date such proceeds are received by Lessor or such third party, and the balance of such proceeds shall be immediately paid to Tenant, except if and to the extent that the same have been paid by the insurer as a prepayment on account of Rent to become due under this Lease in which event Lessor or such third party shall hold any such funds in trust and apply such funds to such Rent as the same becomes due.
 
.
Section 14.2
Reconstruction in the Event of Damage or Destruction Covered by Insurance
 
If, during the Term, any Leased Property is totally or partially destroyed from a risk covered by the insurance described in and the Facility located thereon is rendered Unsuitable for Its Primary Intended Use, Tenant shall either (A) restore the Facility to substantially the same condition as existed immediately before the damage or destruction, or (B) offer to acquire the applicable Leased Property from Lessor for a purchase price equal to the Fair Market Value Purchase Price of the Leased Property immediately prior to such damage or destruction. In the event Lessor does not accept Tenant's aforesaid offer to purchase, Tenant may (i) withdraw its offer to purchase the Leased Property and proceed to restore the Facility to substantially the same condition as existed immediately before the damage or destruction or (ii) provided and on the conditions that, at the time of such damage or destruction, Tenant had in full force and effect the insurance required under and above, there exists no defense to, or limitation upon, the insurer's coverage of such damage or destruction under such insurance, and Tenant pays to Lessor, on or prior to the hereinafter described termination, the amount of any deductible or other uninsured portion of the loss resulting from any such damage or destruction, terminate this Lease as to such Leased Property, in which event Lessor shall be entitled to retain the insurance proceeds.
Section 14.2.1
Article XIII
Section 13.1.1
Section 13.1.2
 
If, during the Term, any Leased Property is totally or partially destroyed from a risk covered by the insurance described in , but the Facility located thereon is not thereby rendered Unsuitable for its Primary Intended Use, Tenant shall restore such Facility to substantially the same condition as existed immediately before the damage or destruction. Such damage or destruction shall not terminate this Lease as to such Leased Property.
Section 14.2.2
Article XIII
 
If the cost of the repair or restoration of any Leased Property exceeds the amount of proceeds received by Lessor from the insurance required under , Tenant shall be obligated to contribute any excess amounts needed to restore such Leased Property. Prior to commencement of construction, Tenant shall either (a) provide Lessor with an irrevocable, unconditional, freely transferable letter of credit issued by a Lending Institution, in the full amount of such difference and in form and substance acceptable to Lessor (and Lessor shall be entitled to draw thereon if Tenant fails to proceed diligently with such construction or to pay its contractors for such construction in a timely manner or to renew or extend such letter of credit at any time the same is scheduled to expire within forty-five (45) days, and the funds from any such draw shall be held in trust and be disbursed by Lessor as provided in subsection (b) below and elsewhere in this ), or (b) pay such difference to Lessor, to be held in trust
Section 14.2.3
Article XIII
Article XIV
 
by Lessor, together with any other insurance proceeds, for application to the cost of repair and restoration.
 
In the event Lessor accepts Tenant's offer to purchase the applicable Leased Property as provided above, this Lease shall terminate as to the applicable Leased Property upon payment of the purchase price and the provisions of hereof shall apply. Upon receipt of the purchase price from Tenant, Lessor shall remit to Tenant all insurance proceeds pertaining to such Leased Property then held in trust by Lessor or any third party designated by Lessor and shall assign to Tenant all of Lessor's rights in and to any insurance proceeds payable on account of such damage or destruction.
Section 14.2.4
Section 40.16
 
. If during the Term any Leased Property and the Facility located thereon is totally or partially destroyed from a risk not covered by the insurance described in , whether or not such damage or destruction renders the Facility Unsuitable for Its Primary Intended Use, Tenant shall restore the Facility to substantially the same condition it was in immediately before such damage or destruction and such damage or destruction shall not terminate this Lease as to such Leased Property.
Section 14.3
Reconstruction in the Event of Damage or Destruction Not Covered by Insurance
Article XIII
 
. All insurance proceeds payable by reason of any loss of or damage to any of the Tenant's Personal Property or Permitted Alterations financed by Tenant shall be paid to Tenant and Tenant shall hold such insurance proceeds in trust to pay the cost of repairing or replacing damaged Tenant's Personal Property or Permitted Alterations financed by Tenant.
Section 14.4
Tenant's Property
 
. If Tenant is required or elects to restore the applicable Leased Property as provided in or , Tenant shall also restore all alterations and improvements made by Tenant, Tenant's Personal Property and all Capital Alterations financed by Tenant.
Section 14.5
Restoration of Tenant's Property
Section 14.2
14.3
 
. This Lease shall remain in full force and effect and Tenant's obligation to make payments of Rent and to pay all other charges required under this Lease shall remain unabated during the Term notwithstanding any damage involving any Leased Property (provided that Lessor shall credit against such payments any amounts paid to Lessor as a consequence of such damage under any business interruption insurance obtained by Tenant); , , that, effective upon the purchase of any Leased Property or termination of this Lease as to the applicable Leased Property pursuant to and in accordance with , this Lease shall terminate as to such Leased Property and the provisions of hereof shall apply. The provisions of this shall be considered an express agreement governing any cause of damage or destruction to the applicable Leased Property and, to the maximum extent permitted by law, no local or state statute, law, rule, regulation or ordinance in effect during the Term which provides for such a contingency shall have any application in such case.
Section 14.6
No Abatement of Rent
provided
however
Section 14.2
Section 40.16
Article XIV
 
. If Tenant is required or elects to restore the applicable Leased Property as provided in or , Tenant shall promptly repair, rebuild, or restore the applicable Leased Property, so as to make such Leased Property at least equal in
Section 14.7
Restoration
Section 14.2
14.3
 
value to such Leased Property as it existed immediately prior to such occurrence and as nearly similar to it in character as is practicable and reasonable. Prior to commencing such repairs or rebuilding, Tenant shall submit to Lessor for Lessor's approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned, Plans and Specifications pursuant to . Promptly after receiving Lessor's approval of the Plans and Specifications, Tenant shall commence repairs and rebuilding and will prosecute the repairs and rebuilding to completion with diligence, subject, however, to strikes, lockouts, acts of God, embargoes, governmental restrictions, and other causes beyond Tenant's reasonable control. Subject to the provisions of any applicable Facility Mortgage, Lessor shall make available to Tenant the insurance proceeds (net of all administrative and collection costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees) paid to Lessor for such repair and rebuilding as it progresses. Payments shall be made against certification of the architect approved by Lessor (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. delayed or conditioned) responsible for the supervision of the repairs and rebuilding that the work had been performed substantially in conformance with the Plans and Specifications and the value of the work in place is equal to not less than 110% of the aggregate amount advanced by Lessor for the payment of such work. Prior to commencing the repairing and rebuilding, Tenant shall deliver to Lessor for Lessor's approval a schedule setting forth the estimated monthly draws for such work. Subject to the provisions of any applicable Facility Mortgage, Lessor shall contribute to such payments out of the insurance proceeds being held in trust by Lessor an amount equal to the proportion that the total net amount so held by Lessor bears to the total estimated cost of repairing and rebuilding, multiplied by the payment by Tenant on account of such work. Lessor may, however, withhold ten percent (10%) from each payment until the work has been completed and proof has been furnished to Lessor that no lien or liability has attached or will attach to the applicable Leased Property or to Lessor in connection with repairing and rebuilding.
Section 10.1
 
. If during the Term any Leased Property and/or the Facility located thereon is totally or partially damaged or destroyed, and the restoration and repair of such damage or destruction is in Tenant's reasonable estimation likely to cost in excess of $200,000.00 in the aggregate, then Tenant shall provide Lessor with written notice of such damage or destruction within fifteen (15) days after Tenant's discovery thereof. The notice requirement of this shall apply regardless of whether such damage or destruction is from a risk covered by the insurance described in , and regardless of whether such damage or destruction renders the Facility Unsuitable for Its Primary Intended Use.
Section 14.8
Notice
Section 14.8
Article XIII
 
. Tenant hereby waives any statutory rights of termination which may arise by reason of any damage or destruction of the applicable Leased Property which Tenant is obligated to restore or may restore under any of the provisions of this Lease.
Section 14.9
Waiver
 
 
.
Section 15.1
Definitions
 
"" means, as to any Leased Property, (a) the exercise of any governmental power, whether by legal proceedings or otherwise, by a Condemnor, (b) a voluntary sale or transfer by Lessor to any Condemnor, either under threat of condemnation or while legal proceedings for condemnation are pending and (c) a taking or
Section 15.1.1
Condemnation
 
voluntary conveyance of all or part of such Leased Property, or any interest therein, or right accruing thereto or use thereof, as the result or in settlement of any condemnation or other eminent domain proceeding affecting such Leased Property.
 
"" means, as to the applicable Leased Property, the date the Condemnor has the right to possession of such Leased Property, or any portion thereof, in connection with a Condemnation.
Section 15.1.2
Date of Taking
 
"" means all compensation, sums or anything of value awarded, paid or received on a total or partial condemnation.
Section 15.1.3
Award
 
"" means any public or quasi-public authority, or private corporation or individual, having the power of condemnation.
Section 15.1.4
Condemnor
 
. If during the Term there is any taking of all or any part of the applicable Leased Property by Condemnation, the rights and obligations of the parties shall be determined by this .
Section 15.2
Parties' Rights and Obligations
Article XV
 
. If any Leased Property is totally taken by condemnation, this Lease shall terminate as to such Leased Property on the Date of Taking, in which event the provisions of hereof shall apply.
Section 15.3
Total Taking
Section 40.16
 
. If a portion of any Leased Property is taken by Condemnation, this Lease shall remain in effect as to such Leased Property if the Facility located thereon is not thereby rendered Unsuitable for Its Primary Intended Use, but, if the Facility is thereby rendered Unsuitable for its Primary Intended Use, this Lease shall terminate as to such Leased Property on the Date of Taking, in which event the provisions of hereof shall apply.
Section 15.4
Partial Taking
Section 40.16
 
If as a result of any such partial taking by Condemnation, this Lease is not terminated as provided above, Tenant's obligation to make payments of Rent and to pay all other charges required under this Lease shall remain unabated during the Term notwithstanding such Condemnation (provided that Lessor shall credit against such payments any amount of any Award attributable to Tenant's business interruption).
 
. If there is a partial taking of the applicable Leased Property and this Lease remains in full force and effect pursuant to , Tenant at its cost shall accomplish all necessary restoration.
Section 15.5
Restoration
Section 15.4
 
.
Section 15.6
Award-Distribution
 
(a) In the event of any partial taking of any Leased Property, the entire Award shall belong to and be paid to Lessor, except that, subject to the rights of the Facility Mortgagees, Tenant shall be entitled to receive from the Award, if and to the extent such Award specifically includes such item, the following:
 
(i) A sum attributable to the Capital Alterations paid for by Tenant; and
 
(ii) A sum specifically attributable to Tenant's Personal Property and any reasonable removal and relocation costs included in the Award; and
 
(iii) A sum specifically attributable to the cost of restoring the Leased Property in accordance with hereof.
Section 15.5
 
(b) In the event of a total taking of any Leased Property, the Award shall be divided between Lessor and Tenant in such proportions relative to the appraised values of their relative estates determined in accordance with , taking into account the value of improvements owned by Lessor and Permitted Alterations paid for by Tenant. Tenant shall also receive a sum specifically attributable to Tenant's Personal Property and any reasonable removal and relocation costs included in the Award.
Section 35.1
 
. The taking of any Leased Property, or any part thereof, by military or other public authority shall constitute a taking by condemnation only when the use and occupancy by the taking authority has continued for longer than six (6) months. During any such six (6) month period all the provisions of this Lease shall remain in full force and effect and Base Rent shall not be abated or reduced during such period of taking.
Section 15.7
Temporary Taking
 
 
. The occurrence of any one or more of the following events shall constitute an "" under this Lease:
Section 16.1
Events of Default
Event of Default
 
(a) if a default by Tenant shall occur under the Indemnity Agreement and, in the case of a monetary default, such default is not cured within a period of five (5) days after receipt of notice from Lessor or, in the case of a non-monetary default, such default is not cured within a period of thirty (30) days after receipt of notice from Lessor, unless such default cannot with due diligence be cured within a period of thirty (30) days, in which case such period of time shall be extended to such period of time (not to exceed 180 days) as may be necessary to cure such default with all due diligence, provided that such cure is completed within 180 days (this subsection (a) shall not apply if and for so long as Lessor is neither Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, nor Ventas, Inc. nor an Affiliate of either of such entities), or
 
(b) if Tenant shall fail to make payment of the Rent or any other sum payable under or pursuant to the terms of this Lease when the same becomes due and payable and such failure is not cured within a period of five (5) days after receipt of notice from Lessor, or
 
(c) if Tenant shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or condition of this Lease not specifically provided for in this and such failure is not cured within a period of thirty (30) days after receipt of notice from Lessor, unless such failure cannot with due diligence be cured within a period of thirty (30) days, in which case such period of time shall be extended to such period of time (not to exceed 180 days) as may be necessary to cure such default with all due diligence provided that such cure is completed within 180 days, or
Section 16.1
 
(d) if Tenant shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or agreement on its part to be performed or observed pursuant to , , the last sentence of , or , or
Section 8.1.1
Section 11.1
Section 8.2
Section 12.1(g)
Section 13.1
 
(e) any Guarantor shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or agreement on its part to be performed or observed pursuant to any Lease Guaranty and such failure shall not be cured within any applicable cure period provided in such Lease Guaranty, or
 
(f) there shall occur a final unappealable determination by applicable federal, state or local authorities of Tenant's non-compliance with Legal Requirements applicable to a Facility located on any Leased Property, or of the revocation of any license, permit, approval or other Authorization (including, without limitation, any certificate of need) required for the lawful operation of the Facility located on any Leased Property in accordance with its Primary Intended Use, or any other circumstances under which Tenant is required by a final unappealable determination of any such authority to cease operations of such Facility in accordance with its Primary Intended Use as currently operated (provided, however, that, without limitation of hereof, before any such determination becomes final and unappealable, Tenant shall have the right to contest the same in accordance with , and hereof), or
Section 12.1(g)
Sections 8.1.1
8.2
12.1(a)-(f)
 
(g) any material representation or warranty made by or on behalf of Tenant or any Guarantor under or in connection with this Lease or any document, certificate or agreement delivered in connection with this Lease shall prove to have been false or misleading in any material respect on the day when made or deemed made, or
 
(h) if any Tenant or any Guarantor shall:
 
(i) admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due,
 
(ii) file a petition in bankruptcy or a petition to take advantage of any insolvency act,
 
(iii) make an assignment for the benefit of its creditors,
 
(iv) consent to the appointment of a receiver of itself or of the whole or any substantial part of its property, or
 
(v) file a petition or answer seeking reorganization or arrangement under the Federal bankruptcy laws or any other applicable law or statute of the United States of America or any State thereof, or
 
(i) any petition shall be filed by or against any Tenant or any Guarantor or any subsidiary of either under Federal bankruptcy laws, or any other proceeding shall be instituted by or against any Tenant or any Guarantor or such subsidiary seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking liquidation, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors, or seeking the entry of an order for relief or the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official for any Tenant or any Guarantor or such subsidiary, or for any substantial part of the property of any Tenant or any Guarantor or such subsidiary, and such proceeding is not dismissed within ninety (90) days after institution thereof, or any Tenant or any Guarantor or such subsidiary shall take any action to authorize or effect any of the actions set forth above in this subsection (i) (this subsection (i) shall not apply to the appointment of a
 
receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official in any proceeding(s) other than bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency and other creditors' rights proceedings of the nature referenced in this subsection (i)), or
 
(j) if any Tenant or any Guarantor shall be liquidated or dissolved, or shall begin proceedings toward such liquidation or dissolution, or
 
(k) if the estate or interest of Tenant in any Leased Property or any part thereof shall be levied upon or attached in any proceeding and the same shall not be vacated or discharged within the later of ninety (90) days after commencement thereof or 30 days after receipt by Tenant of notice thereof from Lessor, (unless Tenant shall be contesting such lien or attachment in good faith in accordance with hereof), or
Article XII
 
(l) if any receiver, trustee, custodian or other similar official is appointed for any Tenant, any Guarantor or any of the Facilities and any such appointment is not dismissed prior to the entry of a final, unappealable order approving such appointment (provided, however, that this subsection (l) shall not apply to any such official appointed in bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency or other creditors' rights proceedings of the nature referenced in subsection (i) above), and, in the case of the appointment of any such official as to whom this subsection (l) does apply, prior to the entry of a final unappealable order approving the appointment of such official and denying any requested dismissal thereof, without limitation of hereof, no Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred under this subsection (l) so long as Tenant is contesting such appointment in accordance with and hereof), or
Section 12.1(g)
Sections 8.2
12.1(a)-(f)
 
(m) Subject to hereof:
Section 16.10
 
(i) an Event of Default shall occur hereunder if the number of licensed beds for any Facility is reduced by more than the Permissible Reduction Percentage (as hereinafter defined) applicable to such Facility of the number of licensed beds in such Facility on the Commencement Date (which number of licensed beds, as of the Commencement Date and after adjusting for the effect of subsection (m)(i)(1) below, Tenant represents and warrants to Lessor is as set forth in attached hereto and made a part hereof) (, , that, (1) [intentionally omitted], (2) [intentionally omitted], and (3) the voluntary removal from service (so called "bed banking") of not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the number of licensed beds in a particular Facility on the Commencement Date shall not constitute a reduction of licensed beds for purposes of this subsection (m), if and for so long as, for purposes of this subsection (3), (a) any such beds that are voluntarily removed from service by Tenant are removed from service with the approval of all applicable governmental authorities, (b) such beds continue to be considered "licensed beds" by the applicable governmental authorities, (c) after diligent inquiry relative to the applicable Legal Requirements and after consultation with its legal counsel, Tenant is not aware of any reason why the applicable regulatory authorities would not authorize such reintroduction by Tenant or any successor operator at any time, in the discretion of Tenant or such successor operator, as applicable, and without the necessity of any governmental approval or reapproval or additional Authorization (other than routine governmental re-inspections of such
Schedule 16.1(m)A
provided
however
 
Facility(ies) and any ministerial approvals, re-approvals or other Authorizations), and (d) at the time, and as a condition, of any such voluntary removal and thereafter within twenty (20) days after receipt of a written request therefor from Lessor from time to time (but not more often than twice in any calendar year, unless, after Lessor has made two (2) such requests in a calendar year, a change(s) in Legal Requirements becomes effective, or Lessor obtains knowledge of other facts or circumstances, suggesting a possible violation of subsection (a), (b) or (c) above or of the other provisions of this ), Tenant shall deliver to Lessor a Senior Officer's Certificate, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lessor, certifying that Tenant has made diligent inquiry relative to the applicable Legal Requirements and has consulted with its legal counsel and, based on the foregoing, certifies that Tenant has complied, and continues to be in compliance, with the provisions of subsections (a), (b) and (c) above and the other provisions of this ); and
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(m)
 
(ii) As used in this subsection (m), the "Permissible Reduction Percentage" for a particular Facility shall equal the lesser of (1) ten percent (10%) or (2) the difference between twenty-five percent (25%) and the percentage of licensed beds at such Facility on the Commencement Date that, as of the calculation date, have been voluntarily removed from service by Tenant in accordance with subsection (m)(i)(3) above; or
 
(n) if Tenant shall become subject to regulatory sanctions and Tenant has failed to cure or satisfy such regulatory sanctions (including, without limitation, through payment of any such sanctions, if the same are monetary in nature) within its specified regulatory cure period in any material respect with respect to any Facility (, , that, without limitation of hereof, prior to the imposition of such sanctions on Tenant by final unappealable order of any governmental agency or authority, no Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred under this subsection (n) so long as Tenant is contesting the imposition of such sanctions in accordance with and hereof), or
provided
however
Section 12.1(g)
Sections 8.2
12.1(a)-(f)
 
(o) if, except pursuant to the terms hereof, Tenant voluntarily ceases operations on any Leased Property, or
 
(p) if Tenant shall fail to observe or perform any term, covenant or other obligation of Tenant set forth in hereof and such failure is not cured within a period of ten (10) days after receipt of notice thereof from Lessor, or
Article XXVI
 
(q) subject to hereof, there shall occur a revocation of certification for reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid with respect to any Facility that participates in such programs and, within one hundred twenty (120) days following such revocation, Tenant fails to have its aforesaid certification fully restored (, , that Tenant shall be given an additional sixty (60) days beyond the aforesaid one hundred twenty (120) day period to have its aforesaid certification fully restored if, on or prior to the aforesaid one hundred twentieth (120th) day, Tenant delivers to Lessor a Senior Officer's Certificate, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lessor, certifying that (i) the only requirement that remains unsatisfied in order for Tenant to have its aforesaid certification fully restored is a re-inspection of the applicable Facility by the applicable regulatory authority, and (ii) Tenant has made diligent inquiry relative to the applicable Legal Requirements and has consulted with its
Section 16.10
provided
however
 
legal counsel and, based on the foregoing, certifies that Tenant is not aware of any reason why Tenant will not pass its aforesaid re-inspection, or why Tenant's aforesaid certification will not be fully restored, in each case within the aforesaid additional sixty (60) day period), or
 
(r) an Event of Default shall occur as described in above, or
Section 8.3.1
 
(s) an Event of Default shall occur as described in below, or
Section 21.5.1
 
(t) If Tenant shall exercise a purchase option relative to a Leased Property(ies) in accordance with hereof and thereafter fail to purchase the subject Leased Property(ies), and otherwise perform and discharge its duties, liabilities and obligations on account of such exercise, strictly in accordance with the terms and conditions of hereof, or
Section 16.12
Section 16.12
 
(u) An Event of Default (as defined in the Tenant Credit Agreement) arising from the failure to pay principal or interest, or any other event of default arising from the failure to pay principal or interest with respect to any other indebtedness for borrowed money of Tenant with an aggregate outstanding principal amount equal to or exceeding $50 million, shall have occurred; or
 
(v) the acceleration of the maturity of any indebtedness for borrowed money of Tenant with an aggregate outstanding principal amount equal to or exceeding $50 million shall have occurred.
 
Upon the occurrence of any Event of Default, Lessor may, at its option, terminate this Lease (i) in the case of any Event of Default, as to all Leased Properties and/or (ii) if such Event of Default is a Facility Default, as to any of the Leased Property(ies) to which such Event of Default relates, by giving not less than ten (10) days' notice of such termination and upon the expiration of such 10-day period or other time period fixed in such notice, if any, during which 10-day or other time period Tenant shall have no right to cure the Event of Default in question, the Term shall terminate as to all Leased Properties or as to the Leased Property(ies) to which such Event of Default relates, as specified in such notice, all rights of Tenant under this Lease shall cease as to the Leased Property(ies) so specified, and, if the Leased Property(ies) so specified are less than all of the Leased Properties, the provisions of hereof shall apply. Lessor shall have all rights at law and in equity available to Lessor as a result of Tenant's breach of this Lease, subject to .
Section 40.16
Section 16.10
 
Tenant shall pay, to the maximum extent permitted by law, as Additional Charges all Litigation Costs as a result of any Event of Default hereunder.
 
. If an Event of Default shall have occurred (and the event giving rise to such Event of Default has not been cured within the curative period relating thereto, if any, as set forth in the applicable subsection of above or elsewhere herein), whether or not this Lease has been terminated pursuant to , Tenant shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law, if and to the extent required by Lessor so to do, immediately surrender to Lessor the Leased Property(ies) as to which the Lease has been or may be terminated pursuant to and quit the same, and Lessor may enter upon and
Section 16.2
Certain Remedies
Section 16.1
Section 16.1
Section 16.1
 
repossess the Leased Properties by reasonable force, summary proceedings, ejectment or otherwise, and may remove Tenant and all other persons and any and all personal property from the Leased Properties subject to rights of any occupants or patients and to any requirement of law.
 
. To the extent permitted by law, neither (a) the termination of this Lease pursuant to , (b) the repossession of any or all of the Leased Properties or any portion thereof, (c) the failure of Lessor to relet any or all of the Leased Properties or any portion thereof, (d) the reletting of any or all of the Leased Properties or any portion thereof, nor (e) the failure of Lessor to collect or receive any rentals due upon any such reletting, shall relieve Tenant of any of its liability and obligations hereunder, all of which shall survive any such termination, repossession or reletting. In the event of any such termination, subject to below, Tenant shall forthwith pay to Lessor, at Lessor's option, as liquidated damages with respect to Rent for each Leased Property as to which such termination has occurred, either:
Section 16.3
Damages
Section 16.1
Section 16.4
 
(A) the sum of:
 
(i) the unpaid Rent allocable to each such Leased Property in accordance with hereof which had been earned at the time of termination, which Rent and other sums shall bear interest at the lesser of the Overdue Rate and the maximum annual rate permitted by law from the date when due until paid; and
Section 16.9
 
(ii) whether or not Lessor previously collected any amounts pursuant to clause (B) below, the then net present value (computed using a discount rate equal to the Prime Rate) of the amount of unpaid Rent allocable to each such Leased Property in accordance with hereof for the balance of the Term following the date of termination (excluding, however, any period following termination on account of which Lessor previously collected Rent pursuant to clause (B) below) without any obligation or deemed obligation on the part of Lessor to mitigate damages, or
Section 16.9
 
(B) each installment of Rent allocable to each such Leased Property in accordance with hereof and other sums payable with respect to each such Leased Property by Tenant to Lessor under this Lease as the same becomes due and payable, which Rent and other sums shall bear interest at the lesser of the Overdue Rate and the maximum annual rate permitted by law from the date when due until paid, to the extent that such Rent and other sums exceed the rent and other sums actually collected by Lessor for the corresponding period pursuant to any reletting of each such Leased Property (without any obligation or deemed obligation on the part of Lessor to mitigate damages).
Section 16.9
 
In case of any Event of Default, re-entry, expiration and dispossession by summary proceedings or otherwise, Lessor may, with or without terminating this Lease, (a) relet any or all of the Leased Properties or any part or parts thereof, either in the name of Lessor or otherwise, for a term or terms which may, at Lessor's option, be equal to, less than or exceed the period which would otherwise have constituted the balance of the Term and may grant concessions or free rent to the extent that Lessor considers advisable and necessary to relet the same, and (b) make such reasonable alterations, repairs and decorations in the applicable Leased Property or any portion thereof as Lessor, in its sole judgment, considers advisable and necessary for the
 
purpose of reletting the applicable Leased Property; and such reletting and the making of such alterations, repairs and decorations shall not operate or be construed to release Tenant from liability hereunder as aforesaid (subject to above if and to the extent the same is applicable). Lessor shall in no event be liable in any way whatsoever for failure to relet any Leased Property, or, in the event that any Leased Property is relet, for failure to collect the rent under such reletting. To the fullest extent permitted by law, Tenant hereby expressly waives any and all rights of redemption granted under any present or future laws in the event of Tenant's being evicted or dispossessed, or in the event of Lessor's obtaining possession of any Leased Property, by reason of the violation by Tenant of any of the covenants and conditions of this Lease.
Section 16.3(B)
 
. Lessor agrees that, in the event this Lease is terminated as to a particular Leased Property and immediately thereafter a Separate Lease is entered into with respect to such Leased Property pursuant to below, (a) Lessor shall not proceed against Tenant under above relative to such Leased Property unless and until an Event of Default shall occur under such Separate Lease and (b) Rent collected by Lessor under any such Separate Lease relative to such Leased Property shall be credited by Lessor against the amounts owing to Lessor under above relative to such Leased Property. Nothing contained in this shall affect or impair Lessor's rights under and above relative to other Leased Properties.
Section 16.4
Certain Effects of Separate Lease
Section 22.7
Section 16.3(A)
Section 16.3(B)
Section 16.4
Sections 16.3(A)
(B)
 
. If this Lease is terminated pursuant to , whether in whole or, in the case of any Facility Default, in part, Tenant waives, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, (a) any right of redemption, re-entry or repossession, (b) any right to a trial by jury in the event of summary proceedings to enforce the remedies set forth in this , and (c) the benefit of any moratorium laws or any laws now or hereafter in force exempting property from liability for rent or for debt.
Section 16.5
Waiver
Section 16.1
Article XVI
 
. Any payments received by Lessor under any of the provisions of this Lease during the existence or continuance of any Event of Default (and such payment is made to Lessor rather than Tenant due to the existence of an Event of Default) shall be applied to Tenant's obligations in the order which Lessor may determine or as may be prescribed by the laws of the State where the applicable Leased Property is located.
Section 16.6
Application of Funds
 
. If Tenant or any subtenant receives a notice of any material regulatory deficiency from any regulatory agency, Tenant shall deliver a copy of such notice to Lessor in accordance with .
Section 16.7
Notice to Lessor
Section 34.1
 
. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the rights and remedies of Lessor and Tenant under this Lease, at law and in equity shall be cumulative and may be exercised concurrently or successively, on one or more occasions, as Lessor or Tenant, as applicable, deems appropriate in its sole discretion, as often as occasion therefor arises. To the maximum extent permitted by law, each such right and remedy shall be in addition to all other such rights and remedies, and the exercise by Lessor or Tenant, as applicable, of any one or more of such rights and remedies shall not preclude the simultaneous or subsequent exercise of any or all other such rights and remedies. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, liquidated damages in respect of Rent provided for in clauses (A) and (B) of hereof, and in
Section 16.8
Nature of Remedies
Section 16.3
 
hereof, shall be payable by Tenant in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other damages suffered by Lessor in connection with any default or Event of Default by Tenant (including, without limitation, Litigation Costs and costs of reletting).
Section 20.1
 
. For purposes of this Lease, without limitation of or hereof, (a) the Additional Charges allocable to a Leased Property shall be the Additional Charges with respect to such Leased Property, and (b) the Base Rent allocable to a Leased Property shall be, for each such item, the product of (i) the amount of such item, multiplied by (ii) the Transferred Property Percentage for such Leased Property as set forth in (as modified from time to time in accordance herewith).
Section 16.9
Allocable Rent
Section 40.15
40.16
Exhibit C
 
. The intention of this is to set forth certain special provisions applicable to Events of Default under and/or of this Lease and to Lessor's rights and remedies upon the occurrence of such Events of Default. This has no application to other Events of Default under this Lease and is not intended to alter or limit Lessor's rights and remedies with respect to such other Events of Default or, except as specifically set forth in this , for any other purpose. Subject to the foregoing, Lessor and Tenant agree that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Lease:
Section 16.10
Special Remedies Provisions
Section 16.10
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10
Section 16.10
 
For purposes of this Lease, subject to and below, references to the "" shall, as of a particular date, mean and refer to (a) the number 1 (if the number of Leased Properties as to which this Lease remains in full force and effect as of such date equals twenty (20) or less), (b) the number 2 (if the number of Leased Properties as to which this Lease remains in full force and effect as of such date equals between twenty-one (21) and forty (40), both inclusive), or (c) the number 3 (if the number of Leased Properties as to which this Lease remains in full force and effect as of such date equals forty-one (41) or more).
Section 16.10.1
Sections 16.10.3.1
16.10.3.2
Section 16.10.1 Number
 
Section 16.10.2
 
If the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease, as determined pursuant to above, equals one (1), the following provisions shall apply:
Section 16.10.2.1
Section 16.10.1
 
If, and for so long as, one or more Events of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described below), Lessor shall be entitled to exercise all rights and remedies available to it under this Lease on account of any then continuing Event of Default under and/or , provided that Lessor may only exercise termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies on account of such Section 16.1(m) and/or Event(s) of Default against either (i) any one or more of the Leased Properties to which such Event(s) of Default relate or (ii) all Leased Properties covered by this Lease.
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(q)
 
If the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease, as determined pursuant to above, equals two (2) or more, the following provisions shall apply:
Section 16.10.2.2
Section 16.10.1
 
If, and for so long as, an Event of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described below) with respect to fewer than the Section 16.10.1 Number (as determined pursuant to hereof) of the Leased Properties, then, on account of any Event of Default under and/or of this Lease, Lessor may not exercise any termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies available to it under this Lease on account of such Section 16.1(m) and/or Section 16.1(q) Event(s) of Default against any Leased Property other than the Leased Property to which the aforesaid Event of Default relates. If, however, an Event of Default of the nature referenced in such and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described below) with respect to the Section 16.10.1 Number or more Leased Properties, Lessor shall be entitled to exercise all rights and remedies available to it under this Lease on account of any then continuing Event of Default under and/or , provided that Lessor may only exercise termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies on account of such and/or Event(s) of Default against either (i) any one or more of the Leased Properties to which such Event(s) of Default relate or (ii) all Leased Properties covered by this Lease.
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
For purposes of , , , , , , , and of this Lease, if an Event of Default shall occur under or of this Lease, except as otherwise agreed in writing by Lessor, in its sole and absolute discretion, the same shall be deemed to be "continuing" at all times from and after the date that such Event of Default first arises (including, without limitation, at all times from and after the date that Lessor terminates this Lease as it applies to the Leased Property to which the aforesaid Event of Default relates or dispossesses Tenant from such Leased Property), unless, prior to the date that Lessor terminates this Lease as it applies to the Leased Property to which the aforesaid Event of Default relates or dispossesses Tenant from such Leased Property, such Event of Default is cured "in-kind" by rectifying and reversing the particular event, circumstance or condition that constitutes or causes such Event of Default; provided (the ""), however, that, if the applicable Section 16.10.1 Number, as determined pursuant to above, equals two or more, if (a) an Event of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described above) with respect to fewer than the Section 16.10.1 Number of the Leased Properties and (b) Lessor has terminated this Lease as it applies to a Leased Property to which an aforesaid Event of Default relates or has dispossessed Tenant from such Leased Property, then, for purposes of , , , and , the aforesaid Event of Default relating to such Leased Property shall not be deemed to be "continuing" as to Leased Properties other than such terminated or dispossessed Leased Property; in such event, the rights and remedies available to Lessor or the limitation of Tenant's rights under such sections which arise in the case of a continuing Event of Default shall apply only to the Leased Property on which the Event of Default under or has occurred, as illustrated by , and of below.
Section 16.10.2.3
Sections 4.1
16.1(m)
16.1(q)
16.10
17.1
19.1
25.1.1
25.1.2
25.1.3
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso
Section 16.10.1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Sections 4.1
17.1
25.1.1
25.1.2
25.1.3
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Examples 5
6
7
Section 16.10.5
 
The limitations on Lessor's rights and remedies set forth in this : (a) apply only to Events of Default under and/or of this Lease and not to any other Events of Default under this Lease, (b) apply only to Lessor's termination and dispossession rights and remedies on account of Events of
Section 16.10.2.4
Section 16.10.2
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
Default under and/or of this Lease and, subject to the terms of the Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso, not to any other rights and remedies available to Lessor on account of any such Events of Default, and (c) do not change any of the other provisions of this Lease as they may relate to Events of Default under and/or of this Lease (e.g. pursuant to of this Lease, Tenant shall remain obligated to indemnify Lessor with respect to any such and/or Event of Default).
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 24.1(d)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
The intention of this is to set forth special rules regarding the calculation of the Section 16.10.1 Number and thereby to limit the ability of Lessor and Tenant, through transactions of the specified nature described in this , to evade certain of the intended goals of this .
Section 16.10.3
Section 16.10.3
Section 16.10.3
Section 16.10
 
Notwithstanding above, if (a)(i) a New Lease under hereof (other than a New Lease that is a Separate Lease created under Section 22.7 hereof) is created from this Lease or (ii) this Lease constitutes a New Lease created under of another lease demising any of the Master Lease Leased Properties (other than a New Lease that is a Separate Lease created under of such other lease) and (b) as of the date immediately prior to such New Lease creation transaction (a ""), under this Lease (if subsection (a)(i) above is applicable) or the other lease referenced in subsection (a)(ii) above (if subsection (a)(ii) above is applicable) one or more Events of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of such lease had occurred and were continuing (as described in hereof or of such other lease, as applicable) with respect to any of the Master Lease Leased Properties covered hereby or thereby, as applicable, then, the Section 16.10.1 Number that would otherwise apply to this Lease, but for the terms of this , shall be increased by one (1) if and only if all of the following conditions are met relative to this Lease:
Section 16.10.3.1
Section 16.10.1
Section 40.15
Section 40.15
Section 22.7
Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.3
Section 16.10.3.1
 
(x) As of the date immediately following the aforesaid Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction, an Event of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease (whether this Lease is the New Lease, or the lease from which a New Lease is created, involved in the aforesaid Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction) has occurred and is continuing (as described in hereof) with respect to a number of the Leased Properties then covered by this Lease that equals or exceeds the Section 16.10.1 Number that would be applicable to this Lease as of such date (assuming, for purposes of this subsection (x), that this is not applicable); and
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.3
Section 16.10.3.1
 
(y) For the four (4) full calendar quarters ending not less than sixty (60) days prior to the aforesaid Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction, (1) the Leased Properties, if any, that continue to be covered by this Lease (whether this Lease is the New Lease, or the lease from which a New Lease is created, involved in the aforesaid Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction) and have as their Primary Intended Use use as a hospital have a Coverage Ratio that is fifteen percent (15%) or more higher than the Coverage Ratio of all of the Master Lease Leased Properties that are covered by this Lease and the other lease involved in the aforesaid Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction or (2) the Leased Properties, if any, that continue to be covered by this Lease and have as their Primary Intended Use use as a nursing center have a Coverage Ratio that is ten percent (10%) or more higher than the Coverage Ratio of all of the
 
Master Lease Leased Properties that are covered by this Lease and the other lease involved in the aforesaid Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction; and
 
(z) No Event(s) of Default (other than and/or Events of Default) have occurred and are continuing under this Lease.
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
: Assume this Lease covers 25 Leased Properties and that no Event of Default under and/or or any other provision of this Lease has occurred or is continuing. Assume further that a New Lease covering 10 Leased Properties and not constituting a Separate Lease under is created from this Lease pursuant to hereof. This would not apply, and the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease would be determined pursuant to hereof (because this Lease would then cover 15 Leased Properties), without any adjustment pursuant to this , because requirement (b) above is not met. The Section 16.10.1 Number for this Lease would equal one (1). For the aforesaid New Lease (because such New Lease would cover 10 Leased Properties), the Section 16.10.1 Number would also equal one (1).
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 22.7
Section 40.15
Section 16.10.3.1
Section 16.10.1(a)
Section 16.10.3.1
 
: Same assumed facts as in , except that, as of the date immediately prior to the Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction referenced in Example 1, an Event of Default under and/or had occurred and was continuing with respect to one (1) Leased Property and such Leased Property remains a part of this Lease (thus satisfying requirement (b) above). Requirement (x) above would be met as to this Lease, because, immediately following the assumed Section 16.10.1.1 New Lease Transaction, an Event of Default under and/or would exist under this Lease with respect to one (1) Leased Property, and such number of Leased Properties equals the Section 16.10.1 Number that would be applicable to this Lease as a 15 Leased Properties lease, assuming, for purposes of requirement (x) above, that this is not applicable. Also, requirement (z) above would be met, as assumed in . Accordingly, in the circumstances of , a review of Coverage Ratios pursuant to subsection (y) above would be needed in order to determine whether a change in the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease is mandated by this . On the other hand, for the aforesaid New Lease (because such New Lease would cover 10 Leased Properties and because requirement (x) above is not met), the Section 16.10.1 Number would equal one (1).
Example 2
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.3.1
Example 1
Example 2
Section 16.10.3.1
 
: Same assumed facts as in . Assume further that the Coverage Ratios of the hospitals and nursing centers that remain subject to this Lease, determined for the four (4) full calendar quarters ending not less than sixty (60) days prior to the assumed Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction, equal, respectively, 1.575:1 and 1.500:1 and that the Coverage Ratios of the hospitals and nursing centers included in the 25 Leased Properties that were covered by this Lease immediately prior to the aforesaid transaction, for the same period, equal, respectively, 1.500:1 and 1.450:1. In the circumstances of this , this would not apply, and the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease would be determined pursuant to hereof (because this Lease would then cover 15 Leased Properties), without any adjustment pursuant to this , because requirement (y) above is not met. The Section 16.10 Number for this Lease would equal one (1). For the aforesaid New Lease, for the reasons stated in , the Section 16.10.1 Number would also equal one (1).
Example 3
Example 2
Example 3
Section 16.10.3.1
Section 16.10.1(a)
Section 16.10.3.1
Example 2
 
: Same assumed facts as in . Assume further that the Coverage Ratios of the hospitals and nursing centers that remain subject to this Lease, determined for the four (4) full calendar quarters ending not less than sixty (60) days prior to the assumed Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction, equal, respectively, 1.575:1 and 1.653:1 and that the Coverage Ratios of the hospitals and nursing centers included in the 25 Leased Properties that were covered by this Lease immediately prior to the aforesaid transaction, for the same period, equal, respectively, 1.500:1 and 1.450:1. In the circumstances of this , the Section 16.10.1 Number that is applicable to this Lease immediately following the assumed Section 16.10.3.1 New Lease Transaction, would, pursuant to this , be increased from one (1) to two (2), because requirement (a) and requirement (b) above are met, and all of requirement (x) (as described in ), requirement (y) (because the Coverage Ratio for nursing centers covered by this Lease is fourteen percent (14%) higher (1.45 x. 1.14 = 1.653) than the Coverage Ratio for all nursing centers covered by the pre-transaction 25 Leased Properties lease) and requirement (z) (as described in ) above are met. For the aforesaid New Lease, for the reasons stated in , the Section 16.10.1 Number would equal one (1).
Example 4
Example 2
Example 4
Section 16.10.3.1
both
Example 2
Example 2
Example 2
 
Notwithstanding above, if (a) this Lease is, pursuant to hereof, the (as defined in ) and (b) as a result of and/or Events of Default that had occurred and were continuing under this Lease and the other lease(s) involved in the lease combination transaction immediately prior to such transaction, immediately following the transaction pursuant to which this Lease became a Section 40.18 Lease, an Event of Default of the nature referenced in and/or ) of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described in hereof) with respect to a number of the Leased Properties then covered by this Lease (the "Number") that equals or exceeds the Section 16.10.1 Number that would be applicable to this Lease as of such date (assuming, for purposes of this subsection (b), that this is not applicable), and (c) immediately following the transaction pursuant to which this Lease became a Section 40.18 Lease, no Event of Default (other than and/or Events of Default) has occurred and is continuing under this Lease, then, the Section 16.10.1 Number that would otherwise apply to this Lease, but for the terms of this , shall be increased by one (1) (and provided further that, if requirements (a), (b) and (c) above are met and this Lease, as the Section 40.18 Lease, (X) covers forty-one (41) or more Leased Properties and the Section 16.10.3.2 Number for this Lease, as the Section 40.18 Lease, exceeds three (3), then the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease shall be adjusted to equal the aforesaid Section 16.10.3.2 Number plus one (1) or (Y) covers twenty-one (21) to forty (40), both inclusive, Leased Properties and the number (the "Subsection Y Number") equal to the Section 16.10.3.2 Number for this Lease, as the Section 40.18 Lease, minus the number of Leased Properties, if any, as to which, following such lease combination transaction, Tenant will continue to have an available and exercisable purchase option under exceeds two (2), then the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease shall be adjusted to equal the Subsection (Y) Number plus one (1) or (Z) covers twenty (20) or less Leased Properties and the number (the "Subsection Z Number") equal to the Section 16.10.3.2 Number for this Lease, as the Section 40.18 Lease, minus the number of Leased Properties, if any, as to which, following such lease combination transaction, Tenant will continue to have an available and exercisable purchase option under exceeds one (1), then the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease shall be adjusted to equal the Subsection Z Number plus one (1)).
Section 16.10.3.2
Section 16.10.1
Section 40.18
Section 40.18 Lease
Section 40.18
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 40.18
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q
Section 16.10.2.3
Section 16.10.3.2
Section 16.10.3.2
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.3.2
Section 16.12
Section 16.12
 
: Assume that a lease covering 50 Master Lease Leased Properties is subdivided into Lease A covering 35 Master Lease Leased Properties and Lease B covering 15 Master Lease Leased Properties and that no Event of Default under and/or or any other provision has occurred or is continuing under either of such leases. Assume further that, pursuant to , such two (2) leases are combined and that Lease A is the Section 40.18 Lease. This would not apply, and the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to Lease A would be determined pursuant to hereof (because Lease A would then cover 50 Master Lease Leased Properties), without any adjustment pursuant to this , because, although requirements (a) and (c) above are met relative to Lease A, requirement (b) above is not met as to Lease A.
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 40.18
Section 16.10.3.2
Section 16.10.1(c)
Section 16.10.3.2
 
: Same assumed facts as in , except assume three (3) Master Lease Leased Properties are subject to continuing and/or Events of Default immediately prior to the assumed transaction, 2 of which are within the 35 Master Lease Leased Properties Lease A and 1 of which is within the 15 Master Lease Leased Properties Lease B. Immediately following the assumed transaction, the recombined 50 Master Lease Leased Properties Lease A would have included therein 3 Master Lease Leased Properties that are subject to continuing and/or Events of Default, which number equals the Section 16.10.1 Number that would be applicable to the combined 50 Master Lease Leased Properties Lease A pursuant to above, but for this and therefore, pursuant to , the Section 16.10.1 Number that is applicable to the combined Lease A would be increased from three (3) to four (4).
Example 2
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 40.18
Section 40.18
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.1(c)
Section 16.10.3.2,
Section 16.10.3.2
 
: Same assumed facts as in , except assume four (4) Master Lease Leased Properties are subject to continuing and/or Events of Default immediately prior to the assumed transaction, 2 of which are within the 35 Master Lease Leased Properties Lease A and 2 of which are within the 15 Master Lease Leased Properties Lease B. Immediately following the assumed transaction, the recombined 50 Master Lease Leased Properties Lease A would have included therein 4 Master Lease Leased Properties that are subject to continuing and/or Events of Default, which number exceeds the Section 16.10.1 Number that would be applicable to the combined 50 Master Lease Leased Properties Lease A pursuant to above, but for this . Requirements (a), (b) and (c) above are met relative to Lease A, and, in addition, Lease A meets the requirements of the proviso at the end of . Therefore, pursuant to , the Section 16.10.1 Number that is applicable to the combined Lease A would equal five (5) (i.e. the Section 16.10.3.2 Number+1).
Example 3
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 40.18
Section 40.18
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.1(c)
Section 16.10.3.2
Section 16.10.3.2
Section 16.10.3.2
 
If a Separate Lease is created under of any lease of any of the Master Lease Leased Properties and, at the time such lease is created an Event of Default under and/or has occurred and is continuing with respect to any Master Lease Leased Property(ies) included in such Separate Lease or, within two (2) years thereafter, such an Event of Default arises under such Separate Lease with respect to any Master Lease Leased Property(ies) included in such Separate Lease, then, for all purposes of each Section 16.10.3.3 Lease (as hereinafter defined), (a) any such Event of Default under such Separate Lease shall also be considered an Event of Default under and of any lease (a "") that, or that derives from a lease that, at any time during the two (2) years that preceded the creation of such Separate Lease, included
Section 16.10.3.3
Section 22.7
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.3.3 Lease
 
any Master Lease Leased Property included in such Separate Lease and as to which such a and/or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under such Separate Lease and (b) each Master Lease Leased Property as to which such a and/or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under such Separate Lease shall, for all purposes of and of each Section 16.10.3.3 Lease, be counted as a leased property as to which a and/or Event of Default had occurred and was continuing the same as if a and/or Event of Default had occurred and was continuing under such Section 16.10.3.3 Lease relative to a Master Lease Leased Property included in such Section 16.10.3.3 Lease.
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10
Section 19.1(b)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
: Assume that a lease of 15 Master Lease Leased Properties includes Property A as to which a Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and that, on account of an Event of Default under such lease, Lessor terminates such lease as it applies to Property A, so that the remaining lease covers 14 Master Lease Leased Properties. Assume further that, pursuant to of such lease, a Separate Lease under is entered into with a leasehold mortgagee or its designee relative to Property A. As a result of , the Event of Default relative to Property A will also be considered an Event of Default under of the aforesaid remaining lease of 14 Master Lease Leased Properties and Property A will, for all purposes of and of such remaining lease, be counted as a leased property as to which a Event of Default had occurred and was continuing the same as if a Event of Default had occurred and was continuing under such remaining lease relative to a Master Lease Leased Property included in such remaining lease.
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 22.7
Section 22.7
Section 16.10.3.3
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.10
Section 19.1(b)
Section 16.1(m)
Section
16.1(m)
 
: Assume that a lease of 15 Master Lease Leased Properties includes no properties as to which a and/or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and that, on account of an Event of Default under such lease, Lessor terminates such lease as it applies to Property A, so that the remaining lease covers 14 Master Lease Leased Properties. Assume further that, pursuant to of such lease, a Separate Lease under Section 22.7 is entered into with a leasehold mortgagee or its designee relative to Property A. Assume further that several months later a Section 16.1(m) Event of Default arises relative to Property A. As a result of , the Section 16.1(m) Event of Default relative to Property A will also be considered an Event of Default under of the aforesaid remaining lease of 14 Master Lease Leased Properties and Property A will, for all purposes of and of such remaining lease, be counted as a leased property as to which a Section 16.1(m) Event of Default had occurred and was continuing the same as if a Event of Default had occurred and was continuing under such remaining lease relative to a Master Lease Leased Property included in such remaining lease.
Example 2
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 22.7
Section 16.10.3.3
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.10
Section 19.1(b)
Section 16.1(m)
 
: Same assumed facts as in , except assume further that the 15 Master Lease Leased Properties lease referenced in such example was formed several months prior to the creation of the Separate Lease as the result of the division of a 60 Master Lease Leased Properties lease into two leases, the aforesaid 15 Master Lease Leased Properties lease and a 45 Master Lease Leased Properties lease. As a result of , the Event of Default relative to Property A will also be considered an Event of Default under of both the remaining lease of 14 Master Lease Leased Properties and the
Example 3
Example 2
Section 16.10.3.3
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(m)
 
aforesaid 45 Master Lease Leased Properties lease and Property A will, for all purposes of and of such remaining lease and such 45 Master Lease Leased Properties lease, be counted as a leased property as to which a Event of Default had occurred and was continuing the same as if a Event of Default had occurred and was continuing under such remaining lease relative to a Master Lease Leased Property included therein and under such 45 Master Lease Leased Properties lease relative to a Master Lease Leased Property included therein. This is because, several months prior to the creation of the Separate Lease, Property A was included in the aforesaid 60 Master Lease Leased Properties lease and both the 14 Master Lease Leased Properties lease and the 45 Master Lease Leased Properties lease derive from such 60 Master Lease Leased Properties lease.
Section 16.10
Section 19.1(b)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(m)
 
Lessor shall have no obligation of any kind or nature to accept, or to treat as a default cure, any monetary or other form of cure in lieu of the mandated "in-kind", Facility-specific cure. For example, even if Lessor, in its sole and absolute discretion, receives, and accepts, full monetary compensation from Tenant on account of all damages suffered by Lessor due to the loss of certification for reimbursement under Medicaid at a particular Facility and whether such receipt occurs through a voluntary arrangement or through the exercise of any remedy hereunder, the Event of Default arising from such loss of certification shall, unless Lessor otherwise agrees in writing, in its sole and absolute discretion, for purposes of , , , , , , and of this Lease, subject, if the Section 16.10.1 Number is 2 or greater, to the Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso, be considered to be "continuing" unless, prior to termination of this Lease as it applies to such Facility, or dispossession of Tenant from such Facility, as described in above, such certification for such Facility is fully restored. Nothing contained in this shall limit or affect the provisions of this Article XVI providing that Lessor has no obligation or deemed obligation to mitigate damages on account of any default by Tenant.
Section 16.10.4
Section 16.1(q)
Sections 4.1
16.1(q)
16.10
17.1
19.1
25.1.1
25.1.2
25.1.3
Section 16.10.2.3
Section 16.10
 
The following examples are intended to illustrate further the application of this :
Section 16.10.5
Section 16.10
 
: If an Event of Default occurs under hereof because the number of licensed beds at a particular Facility has been reduced to a number below the required number of licensed beds for such Facility, such Event of Default shall be deemed to be "continuing" for purposes of , , , , , , and of this Lease, subject, if applicable, to the Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso, unless, prior to termination of this Lease as it applies to such Facility, or dispossession of Tenant from such Facility, as described in above, the number of licensed beds at such Facility is returned to the required number.
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Sections 4.1
16.1(m)
16.10
17.1
19.1
25.1.1
25.1.2
25.1.3
Section 16.10.2.3
 
: If an Event of Default of the type described in has occurred and is continuing (as described above) with respect to a Leased Property, and Lessor has terminated this Lease as it applies to the Leased Property to which such aforesaid Event of Default relates or Lessor has dispossessed Tenant from such Leased Property, then, if the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease equals two (2) or more and Events of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease have occurred and are continuing (as described above) with respect to fewer than the Section 16.10.1 Number of the Leased Properties, such Event of Default, for purposes of , , , and ,
Example 2
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Sections 4.1
17.1
25.1.1
25.1.2
25.1.3
 
shall not be deemed to be "continuing" as to any other Leased Properties; in such event, the rights and remedies available to Lessor or the limitation of Tenant's rights under such sections which arise in the case of a continuing Event of Default shall apply only to the Leased Property on which the Event of Default under has occurred (as illustrated in , and below).
Section 16.1(m)
Examples 5
6
7
 
: If an Event of Default occurs under hereof due to a loss of Medicaid certification at a particular Facility, such Event of Default shall be deemed to be "continuing" for purposes of , , , , , , and of this Lease, subject, if applicable, to the Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso, unless, prior to termination of this Lease as it applies to such Facility, or dispossession of Tenant from such Facility, as described above, such Facility's certification for reimbursement under Medicaid is fully restored.
Example 3
Section 16.1(q)
Sections 4.1
16.1(q)
16.10
17.1
19.1
25.1.1
25.1.2
25.1.3
 
: If an Event of Default of the type described in has occurred and is continuing (as described above) with respect to a Leased Property, and Lessor has terminated this Lease as it applies to the Leased Property to which such aforesaid Event of Default relates or Lessor has dispossessed Tenant from such Leased Property, then, if the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease equals two (2) or more and Events of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease have occurred and are continuing (as described above) with respect to fewer than the Section 16.10.1 Number of the Leased Properties, such Event of Default, for purposes of , , , and , shall not be deemed to be "continuing" as to any other Leased Properties; in such event, the rights and remedies available to Lessor or the limitation of Tenant's rights under such sections which arise in the case of a continuing Event of Default shall apply only to the Leased Property on which the Event of Default under has occurred (as illustrated in , and below).
Example 4
Example 3
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Sections 4.1
17.1
25.1.1
25.1.2
25.1.3
Section 16.1(q)
Examples 5
6
7
 
: If (i) an Event of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described above) with respect to Leased Property X and no other Leased Properties, (ii) Lessor has terminated this Lease as it applies to Leased Property X or dispossessed Tenant from such Leased Property X, (iii) the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease exceeds 1 (so that is applicable and, in light of subsections (i) and (ii) of this Example, requirements (a) and (b) of the Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso are met), and (iv) pursuant to , a refund shall be due from a taxing authority in respect of an Imposition paid by Tenant relative to Leased Property X, then Tenant would not receive such refund and such refund would be retained by Lessor and applied as provided in , but Tenant would continue to be paid or retain (as provided in ) any Imposition refund from Leased Properties other than Leased Property X.
Example 5
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.2
Section 4.1
Article XVI
Section 4.1
 
: If (i) an Event of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described above) with respect to Leased Property X and no other Leased Properties, (ii) Lessor has terminated this Lease as it applies to Leased Property X or dispossessed Tenant from such Leased Property X, and (iii) the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease exceeds 1 (so that is applicable and, in light of subsections (i) and (ii) of this Example, requirements (a) and (b) of the Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso are met), then, pursuant to , Lessor would be entitled, to the extent permitted by law, to enter on Leased Property X for the purpose of curing such
Example 6
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.2
Section 17.1
 
continuing Event of Default, but Lessor would not be entitled to exercise the remedies provided in with respect to any other Leased Properties.
Section 17.1
 
: If (i) an Event of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described above) with respect to Leased Property X and no other Leased Properties, (ii) Lessor has dispossessed Tenant from Leased Property X, (iii) the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease exceeds 1 (so that is applicable and, in light of subsections (i) and (ii) of this Example, requirements (a) and (b) of the Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso are met), and (iv) Tenant desires to sublet, pursuant to , up to an aggregate of 20% of the rentable square footage of each of Leased Properties X and Y without obtaining the consent of Lessor, then Tenant would not be entitled to sublet any portion of Leased Property X without the consent of Lessor, but Tenant would be entitled to sublet such portion of Leased Property Y without obtaining the consent of Lessor.
Example 7
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.2
Section 25.1.2(ii)
 
: Same assumed facts as in , except that the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease equals 2, and an Event of Default of the nature referenced in has also occurred and is continuing relative to another of the Leased Properties. would be applicable, but requirement (a) of the Section 16.10.2.3 Proviso would not be met. Tenant would not be entitled to sublet any portion of Leased Property X or Leased Property Y without the consent of Lessor.
Example 8
Example 7
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.10.2.2
 
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein or in that certain Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of April 30, 1998 by and between Ventas, Inc. (prior to April 30, 1998, known as Vencor, Inc.) and Kindred Healthcare, Inc. (from May 1, 1998 until April, 2001, known as Vencor, Inc.) (""), (a) upon any Event of Default by Tenant, Lessor shall be entitled to proceed immediately to enforce its rights and remedies pursuant to this and the other terms of this Lease, (b) neither any Event of Default, nor the rights and obligations of Tenant and Lessor under this Lease, shall be subject to mediation or arbitration of any kind, and (c) the provisions of of the 1998 Plan of Reorganization shall not apply to this Lease or any of the other Combined Leases.
Section 16.11
No Mediation or Arbitration
1998 Plan of Reorganization
Article XVI
Article VI
 
. It is the intention of this to set forth specific provisions that, in limited circumstances, for a limited number of times and only in connection with the occurrence of Events of Default under and/or of this Lease, allow Tenant a non-renewing right to purchase a Leased Property(ies) and thereby to reduce the number of Leased Properties as to which and/or Events of Default continue to exist to below the applicable Section 16.10.1 Number, and, by doing so strictly on the terms and conditions provided in this , thereby to avoid the exercise by Lessor of termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies against all Leased Properties covered hereby on account of such and/or Event(s) of Default. Tenant's purchase rights as set forth in this are not applicable to any other Events of Default or in any other circumstances and are strictly limited in number and non-renewing.
Section 16.12
Special Purchase Provisions
Section 16.12
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.12
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.12
 
Section 16.12.1
 
If the number of Leased Properties as to which this Lease is in full force and effect equals twenty (20) or less, subject to below, a purchase option will be exercisable by Tenant on account of a and/or Event of Default with respect to only two (2) Leased Properties in the aggregate during the Term, after which no further purchase option under this will be available to, or exercisable by, Tenant.
Section 16.12.1.1
Section 16.12.1.2
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.12
 
If the number of Leased Properties as to which this Lease is in full force and effect equals twenty-one (21) to forty (40), both inclusive, a purchase option will be exercisable by Tenant on account of a and/or Event of Default with respect to only one (1) Leased Property in the aggregate during the Term, after which no further purchase option under this will be available to, or exercisable by, Tenant, and provided that, if (a) this Lease at any time was in full force and effect with respect to twenty-one (21) to forty (40), both inclusive, Leased Properties and at such time Tenant exercised a purchase option under this and on account of a and/or Event of Default with respect to a Leased Property and (b) this Lease thereafter is in full force and effect with respect to less than twenty-one (21) Leased Properties due to creation of a Separate Lease under , a casualty or condemnation termination relative to a Leased Property(ies) or for any other reason (other than Lessor's unilateral creation of a New Lease under ), no further purchase option under this will be available to, or exercisable by, Tenant.
Section 16.12.1.2
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.12
Section 16.12
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 22.7
Section 40.15
Section 16.12
 
If the number of Leased Properties as to which this Lease is in full force and effect equals forty-one (41) or more, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , this shall not apply, and no purchase option will be available to, or exercisable by, Tenant on account of a and/or Event of Default.
Section 16.12.1.3
Section 16.12
Section 16.12
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
For all purposes of this Section 16.12, once a purchase option is exercised relative to a Leased Property(ies), it may not be revoked, and it shall exhaust Tenant's available purchase options, as described in and , as applicable, above, to the extent of the number of Leased Properties as to which such exercise applies.
Section 16.12.1.4
Section 16.12.1.1
Section 16.12.1.2
 
No purchase option will be available to, or exercisable by, Tenant on account of any Event of Default under this Lease other than and/or Events of Default.
Section 16.12.1.5
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
If (a) an Event of Default under and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described in hereof) with respect to a number of the Leased Properties covered by this Lease that equals or exceeds the Section 16.10.1 Number that is applicable to this Lease and (b) Lessor intends to exercise termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies against all Leased Properties covered by this Lease on account of such Event(s) of Default and (c) no Events of Default (other than and/or Events of Default) have occurred and are continuing under this Lease, then, unless (i) Tenant has previously exhausted its available purchase option(s) (as described in or , as applicable, above) or (ii) if
Section 16.12.2
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1 (q)
Section 16.10.2.3
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.12.1.1
Section 16.12.1.2
 
Tenant has any remaining purchase option(s), by exercising the same Tenant would not be able to reduce the number of Leased Properties as to which an Event of Default under and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described in hereof) to a number fewer than the Section 16.10.1 Number that is applicable to this Lease:
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.3
 
 
 
 
If Tenant exercises a purchase option relative to a particular Leased Property(ies), the closing with respect thereto will occur within forty-five (45) days of Tenant's receipt of the applicable Section 16.12 Notice. At such closing, Lessor will, by special warranty deed, convey to Tenant or its designee all of Lessor's right, title and interest in the
Section 16.12.3
 
subject Leased Property(ies), subject to the Permitted Encumbrances, and will cause to be released any Facility Mortgage(s) or other liens created by Lessor or its agents or employees relative to the subject Leased Property(ies) (and, if Lessor is unable to cause such release(s) as of the initially scheduled closing date, the closing date shall be extended as necessary to allow Lessor additional time to cause such release(s)), and Tenant will pay in cash, to or as directed by Lessor, the purchase price therefor, as described in below, subject, if applicable as described below, to a credit against the purchase price in favor of Tenant and in the amount, if any, described below. Such conveyance will be on an "AS IS", "WITH ALL FAULTS" basis and without any representation or warranty (except as set forth in the aforesaid special warranty deed). Upon the occurrence of such closing, this Lease will terminate, in accordance with , insofar as it applies to the purchased Leased Property(ies), but all accrued obligations, or obligations that survive termination, with respect to the purchased Leased Property(ies) shall survive such termination. Relative to the foregoing, if Tenant closes with respect to a particular Leased Property strictly in accordance with the terms and conditions provided in this , and, prior to such closing, Lessor has sued, and collected damages from, Tenant on account of a and/or Event of Default relative to such Leased Property, Tenant shall be entitled to a credit against the purchase price for such Leased Property equal to a sum, not to exceed the purchase price, equal to (a) the amount of the damages so collected by Lessor from Tenant in the aforesaid lawsuit, less (b) the amount of all attorneys' fees, court costs, witness fees and other costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in connection with such lawsuit or and/or Event of Default.
Section 16.12.5
Section 40.16
Section 16.12
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
If Tenant exercises a purchase option relative to a Leased Property(ies), and closes with respect thereto strictly in accordance with the terms and conditions provided in this , then, for purposes of Sections 16.1 and 16.10 of this Lease, the and/or Event of Default relative to the purchased Leased Property(ies) will be deemed to have been cured (but without limitation of Lessor's indemnity rights under hereof and other rights and remedies that survive the applicable termination of this Lease that results from Tenant's purchase of such Leased Property(ies)), but, for purposes of and , Tenant will have exhausted that number of its available purchase options as equals the number of Leased Properties as to which it has so exercised its purchase option. If, as a result of such cure, the number of the Leased Properties as to which an Event of Default under Section 16.1(m) and/or Section 16.1(q) of this Lease is reduced to a number fewer than the Section 16.10.1 Number that is applicable to this Lease, Lessor will, for so long as such condition continues to exist, be precluded from exercising termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies against all Leased Properties covered by this Lease on account of the then remaining Event(s) of Default under and/or of this Lease, but not on account of any other Event of Default under this Lease.
Section 16.12.4
Section 16.12
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 24.1
Section 16.12.1.1
Section 16.12.1.2
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
The purchase price for each Leased Property as to which a purchase option is exercised by Tenant will be separately determined for each Leased Property and will equal, at Lessor's separate election for each Leased Property, either (a) the sum calculated by dividing the Base Rent per annum applicable to such Leased Property for the year next following the applicable closing date by nine percent (9.0%) or (b) the product of ten (10.0) times the Purchase Option EBITDAR, as hereinafter defined, for such Leased Property. The Purchase Option EBITDAR for a particular Leased Property will equal the highest twelve (12)
Section 16.12.5
 
consecutive month EBITDAR for such Leased Property occurring during the period commencing three (3) years prior to (i) the first day of the month during which a Event of Default first occurred with respect to such Leased Property or (ii) the first day of the month during which a revocation of certification for reimbursement under Medicare or Medicaid first occurred with respect to such Leased Property, whichever is earlier, and ending on the last day of the month preceding the month during which the closing occurs with respect to such Leased Property. For example, if Tenant exercises a purchase option relative to a particular Leased Property, the closing with respect thereto occurs on April 15, 2005, a Event of Default arose on January 14, 2005, such Leased Property was decertified for Medicare on July 15, 2004 and a Event of Default arose on account thereof on November 12, 2004, the period referenced above would commence on July 1, 2001 and end on March 31, 2005.
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
 
If this Lease and a Second Lease are combined as provided in of this Lease, for purposes of determining whether any further purchase option is available to Tenant in such combined lease and, if so, as to how many Leased Properties such an option is available, all purchase option exercises that occurred under this Lease and the Second Lease prior to such combination shall be counted the same as if they occurred under the combined lease.
Section 16.12.6
Section 40.18
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , this will be included in the Lease and be effective only if and for so long as inclusion thereof does not cause this Lease to be considered a capital lease, rather than an operating lease, for all accounting, tax and legal purposes, as determined by the independent auditors for both Lessor and Tenant.
Section 16.12.7
Section 16.12
Section 16.12
 
The following examples are intended to illustrate further the application of this :
Section 16.12.8
Section 16.12
 
: Assume that, within a lease of 25 Master Lease Leased Properties, no Events of Default exist other than Events of Default under and/or that have occurred and are continuing relative to Property A and Property B and that Lessor provides a Section 16.12 Notice on account thereof, which notice specifies Property A as the property as to which Tenant's one (1) available purchase option (pursuant to the number limitation set forth in ) shall be available. Assume further that Tenant exercises its purchase option relative to Property A and closes its purchase of Property A in strict accordance with the terms and conditions provided in this . On account of such exercise, Tenant would have exhausted its purchase option rights under such lease, and, on account of such purchase, (a) the and/or Event of Default relative to Property A would have been cured, leaving Property B as the only leased property as to which a continuing and/or Event of Default continues, and (b) because the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to such lease would equal 2, the continuation of a and/or Event of Default with respect to Property B and no other leased properties would not, pursuant to the terms of , be sufficient to permit Lessor to exercise termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies against any leased property other than Property B.
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.12.1.2
Section 16.12
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.2
 
: Same assumed facts as in and assume further that an additional Event of Default arises under such lease with respect to Property C. Lessor would be permitted to exercise termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies against all leased properties under such lease, in accordance with , because the number of such and/or Events of Default under such lease would equal 2 (Property B and Property C), which number equals the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to such lease. Also, because Tenant has exhausted its purchase option rights under such lease as described on , would no longer be applicable to grant Tenant any purchase option rights and Lessor would be permitted to exercise such termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies against all leased properties under such lease without providing any Notice to Tenant or additional purchase option to Tenant.
Example 2
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.10.2.2
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Example 1
Section 16.12
Section 16.12
 
: Assume that, within a lease of 10 Master Lease Leased Properties, no Events of Default exist other than Events of Default under and/or that have occurred and are continuing relative to Property X, Property Y and Property Z. Lessor would not be obligated to provide a Section 16.12 Notice to Tenant prior to exercise of termination and/or dispossession rights and remedies against all leased properties under such lease. A lease of 10 leased properties is eligible for purchase options with respect to 2 leased properties during the Term (). Even if Tenant exercised such 2 purchase options and closed thereunder, a and/or Event of Default would continue to exist under such lease and the precondition to an exercisable purchase option, and receipt of a Section 16.12 Notice, referenced in would therefore not be met.
Example 3
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.12.1.1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.12.2(ii)
 
 
. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, Lessor, without waiving or releasing any obligation or Event of Default, may (but shall be under no obligation to) at any time thereafter make such payment or perform such act for the account and at the expense of Tenant, and may, to the extent permitted by law, enter upon any or each Leased Property or any portion thereof for the purpose of curing such Event of Default and take all such action thereon as, in Lessor's opinion, may be necessary or appropriate in connection with curing such Event of Default. No such entry shall be deemed an eviction of Tenant. All reasonable sums so paid by Lessor and all reasonable costs and expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, in each case, to the maximum extent permitted by law) so incurred, together with interest thereon (to the maximum extent permitted by law) as Additional Charges hereunder at the Overdue Rate from the date on which such sums or expenses are paid or incurred by Lessor, shall be paid by Tenant to Lessor on demand. The obligations of Tenant and rights of Lessor contained in this Article shall survive the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease. Nothing contained in this shall limit or impair Lessor's rights and remedies under or .
Section 17.1
Lessor's Right to Cure Tenant's Default
Section 17.1
Section 8.3.2
Section 21.5.2
 
 
. In the event Tenant purchases any Leased Property from Lessor pursuant to any of the terms of hereof, Lessor shall, upon receipt from Tenant of the applicable purchase price, together with full payment of all Rent due and payable or other charges due and payable with respect to any period ending on or before the date of the purchase, deliver to Tenant an appropriate deed or other conveyance (in the customary form used to convey commercial properties within the relevant jurisdiction) conveying the entire interest of Lessor in and to such Leased Property to Tenant free and clear of all encumbrances other than (i) those that Tenant has agreed hereunder to pay or discharge, (ii) those mortgage liens, if any, which Tenant has agreed in writing to accept and to take title subject to and (iii) Permitted Encumbrances. The difference between the applicable purchase price and the total of the encumbrances assumed or taken subject to shall be paid in cash to Lessor or as Lessor may direct, in federal or other immediately available funds except as otherwise mutually agreed by Lessor and Tenant other than as specifically provided above, such Leased Property shall be conveyed to Tenant on an "as is" basis, and in its then physical condition. Closing of any such sale shall be contingent upon and subject to Tenant obtaining all required governmental consents and approvals for such transfer and if such sale shall fail to be consummated by reason of the inability of Tenant to obtain all such approvals and consents, any options to extend the Term of this Lease which otherwise would have expired during the escrow period to such proposed sale shall be deemed to remain in effect for 30 days after termination of the escrow or other arrangement covering the closing of such proposed sale. All expenses of such conveyance, including, without limitation, the cost of title examination or standard coverage title insurance, if reasonably required under the circumstances then existing, attorneys' fees incurred by Lessor in connection with such conveyance and release, and transfer taxes, shall be paid by Lessor. Recording fees shall be paid for by Tenant. Upon the closing of any such sale, the provisions of hereof shall apply.
Section 18.1
Provisions Relating to Purchase of the Leased Property
Article XIV
Section 40.16
 
 
. Tenant is hereby granted the right to renew this Lease, with respect to all, but not less than all, of those Leased Properties within the applicable group as shown on annexed hereto (herein, a "") for three (3), 5-year option renewal terms (collectively, the "" and each an "") upon giving written notice to Lessor of each such renewal at least one (1) year but not more than eighteen (18) months prior to the termination of the then current Term applicable to such Renewal Group, provided and on the conditions that, at the time Tenant gives a renewal notice as set forth above relative to a Renewal Group and at the time of the commencement of the applicable Extended Term for such Renewal Group, (a) an Event of Default (other than any Facility Defaults of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease) shall not have occurred and be continuing (as described in above) under this Lease and (b) Facility Defaults of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease shall not have occurred and be continuing (as described in above) with respect to the Section 16.10.1 Number or more Leased Properties. Tenant may not exercise its option for more than one Extended Term at a time. If Tenant exercises a renewal option as aforesaid relative to a Renewal Group, Tenant may nevertheless revoke such exercise, if and so long as the requirements of below are strictly complied with. For
Section 19.1
Exercise of Renewal Options
Exhibit D
Renewal Group
Extended Terms
Extended Term
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.3
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.3
Section 19.5
 
purposes of this , if an Event of Default shall occur under or of this Lease, whether the same is, or is deemed to be, "continuing" shall be determined as provided in above.
Section 19.1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10
 
: If (i) an Event of Default of the nature referenced in and/or of this Lease has occurred and is continuing (as described in above) with respect to Leased Property X and no other Leased Properties, (ii) Lessor has terminated this Lease as it applies to Leased Property X or dispossessed Tenant from such Leased Property X, (iii) the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease exceeds 1 (so that the condition referenced in is met), and (iv) Tenant desires to renew this Lease, pursuant to , with respect to a Renewal Group which does not include Leased Property X, then Tenant would be entitled to renew this Lease with respect to all of the Leased Properties in such Renewal Group. See the following examples for examples of Lessor's and Tenant's respective rights relative to renewal of the Renewal Group that includes Lease Property X.
Example 1
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10.2.3
Section 19.1(b)
Section 19.1
 
: Same assumed facts as in , except assume that Lessor has not terminated this Lease as it applies to Leased Property X, but Lessor has dispossessed Tenant from Leased Property X, and that the Renewal Group that Tenant desires to renew includes Leased Property X. Tenant would be entitled to renew this Lease with respect to all of the Leased Properties in such Renewal Group, but any such renewal would include renewal of Leased Property X. does not create any right allowing Tenant to renew less than all of a Renewal Group as to which this Lease remains in effect. As to Leased Property X, Tenant has been dispossessed, not terminated, and therefore any renewal would need to include Leased Property X.
Example 2
Example 1
Section 19.1
 
: Same assumed facts as in , except assume that Lessor has terminated this Lease as it applies to Leased Property X. Tenant would be entitled to renew this Lease with respect to all of the Leased Properties in the Renewal Group that formerly included Leased Property X, without being obligated to renew this Lease as to Leased Property X. Due to the termination of this Lease as it applies to Leased Property X, the aforesaid Renewal Group no longer includes Leased Property X, and Tenant is entitled to renew this Lease as to all of the Renewal Group as to which this Lease remains in effect.
Example 3
Example 2
 
: Same assumed facts as in , , and , except that, in each case, assume that the applicable Section 16.10.1 Number is 1. Tenant would not be entitled to renew this Lease as to any Renewal Group included in this Lease, as the condition referenced in would not be met in each of such Examples.
Example 4
Examples 1
2
3
Section 19.1(b)
 
: Same assumed facts as in , except assume that the Section 16.10.1 Number applicable to this Lease is 2 and that a Event of Default has occurred and is continuing with respect to Master Lease Leased Property Y included in a Separate Lease as to which this Lease is a Section 16.10.3 Lease and as to which and are applicable. Tenant would not be entitled to renew this Lease as to any Renewal Group included in this Lease. The aforesaid Event of Default under such Separate Lease relative to Master Lease Leased Property Y would count as a Event of Default under this Lease the same as if Master Lease Leased Property Y was included in this Lease, and,
Example 5
Example 3
Section 16.1(m)
Sections 16.10.3(a)
(b)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(m)
 
after aggregating such Event of Default relative to Master Lease Leased Property Y with the Event of Default relative to Leased Property X, the condition referenced in would not be met.
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(m)
Section 19.1(b)
 
. During each Extended Term, all of the terms and conditions of this Lease shall continue in full force and effect, subject, however, to the following provisions. In the first Extended Term, Base Rent shall be calculated using the method applicable during the last year of the Fixed Term. In the case of each Extended Term after the first Extended Term, if the portion of Base Rent applicable to the applicable Renewal Group (based upon the aggregate Transfer Property Percentages for the Leased Properties in such Renewal Group) for the first year of any such Extended Term is less than Fair Market Rental of such Renewal Group (as determined in accordance with this and hereof), then Base Rent for such year for such Renewal Group shall be an amount equal to such Fair Market Rental. If Base Rent for such first year of any such Extended Term for such Renewal Group is based upon Fair Market Rental as determined pursuant to this and hereof, the Base Rent in the remaining years of such Extended Term and any subsequent Extended Terms for such Renewal Group (subject, however, to the re-application of this Section to the first year and subsequent years of any subsequent Extended Term) shall be escalated as is determined and required by the terms of the Fair Market Rental determination for such Renewal Group.
Section 19.2
Renewal Terms
Section 19.2
Section 19.3
Section 19.2
Section 19.3
 
. At any time within thirty (30) days after receipt from Tenant of a notice of renewal under hereof (other than a notice of renewal for the first Extended Term), Lessor may, by written notice to Tenant, request that Fair Market Rental of the applicable Renewal Group, and Fair Market Rental of each Leased Property within such Renewal Group, be determined by appraisal under the procedures of hereof and in such event such Fair Market Rentals shall be so determined in accordance with the procedures of such . Lessor's failure to deliver such notice to Tenant within thirty (30) days after receiving Tenant's notice of renewal shall preclude Lessor from any claim that Base Rent for the first year of the Extended Term to which such notice of renewal relates for the applicable Renewal Group is less than Fair Market Rental of such Renewal Group, and thereafter Base Rent for such Renewal Group for such Extended Term (but only for that particular Extended Term) shall be determined as set forth in the definitions of "Base Rent" set forth in hereof, without any application of . If Lessor has timely delivered such notice to Tenant, and thereafter Fair Market Rental of the applicable Renewal Group is determined under hereof, the determination of whether such appraised Fair Market Rental is higher than Base Rent applicable to the applicable Renewal Group shall be made by Lessor, in its sole and exclusive discretion, which determination shall be binding on Lessor and Tenant and not subject to further review.
Section 19.3
Fair Market Rental Determination
Section 19.1
Article XXXV
Article XXXV
Section 2.1
Section 19.2
Article XXXV
 
. If Base Rent for a Renewal Group for the first year of any Extended Term after the first Extended Term is based upon Fair Market Rental as determined pursuant to and hereof, then effective as of the first day of such Extended Term, such Renewal Group shall be transferred from this Lease to a New Lease entered into pursuant to, and otherwise in compliance with, the terms and conditions of hereof and this Lease shall be amended as set forth in such . Such New Lease shall include therein an that allocates the aggregate Base Rent payable
Section 19.4
Extended Period New Lease
Section 19.2
Section 19.3
Section 40.15
Section 40.15
Exhibit C
 
thereunder to the individual Leased Properties covered by such New Lease, and assigns Transferred Property Percentages to such Leased Properties, in a manner that is consistent with the respective Fair Market Rentals of such Leased Properties as determined pursuant to and hereof.
Section 19.2
Section 19.3
 
. In the event (a) Tenant exercises a renewal option relative to a Renewal Group in accordance with above, (b) such renewal option relates to an Extended Term for such Renewal Group other than the first Extended Term applicable to such Renewal Group, and (c) Lessor, in accordance with above, requests that Fair Market Rental of the applicable Renewal Group, and Fair Market Rental of each Leased Property within such Renewal Group, be determined by appraisal under the procedures of hereof, Tenant may revoke its aforesaid exercise, provided and on the condition that, whether or not the Fair Market Rental determinations referenced in subsection (c) above have been completed, Tenant must notify Lessor of its revocation of its aforesaid exercise not less than one (1) year prior to the termination of the then current Term applicable to such Renewal Group; , , if Tenant gives its written renewal notice to Lessor in accordance with above on or before the date which is seventeen (17) months prior to the termination of the then current Term applicable to such Renewal Group, then Tenant shall have until the earlier of (i) nine (9) months prior to the termination of the then current Term applicable to such Renewal Group and (ii) fifteen (15) days after the date upon which the Fair Market Rental determinations referenced in subsection (c) above have been completed to notify Lessor of its revocation. In the event Tenant so revokes its aforesaid exercise relative to a Renewal Group, Tenant's remaining renewal option(s) relative to such Renewal Group shall be deemed to have been irrevocably waived and terminated.
Section 19.5
Revocation of Renewal Option Exercise
Section 19.1
Section 19.3
Article XXXV
provided
however
Section 19.1
 
 
. If Tenant shall for any reason remain in possession of any Leased Property after the expiration of the Term or earlier termination of the Term (other than solely due to Lessor's failure, on or prior to (a) the ninetieth (90th) day preceding the expiration of the Term as to such Leased Property or (b) if this Lease is terminated prior to such expiration due to Lessor's default, the earlier termination of the Term as to such Leased Property, to have notified Tenant that Lessor has procured a Qualified Successor for such Leased Property), such possession shall, at the option of Lessor in its sole discretion as to each such Leased Property, be as a month-to-month tenant during which time Tenant shall pay as rental each month (which rental constitutes liquidated damages with respect to Rent, and not a penalty for the period to which it relates), one and one-half times the aggregate of (i) one-twelfth of the aggregate annual amounts of Base Rent payable as of the end of the preceding Term and, in the case of a month-to-month tenancy as to less than all of the Leased Properties, allocable to the Leased Property(ies) in question in accordance with hereof; (ii) all Additional Charges accruing during the month and (iii) all other sums, if any, payable by Tenant pursuant to the provisions of this Lease with respect to the Leased Property(ies) in question. During such period of month-to-month tenancy, Tenant shall be obligated to perform and observe all of the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease with respect to the Leased Property(ies) in question, but shall have no rights hereunder other than the right, to the extent given by law to month-to-month tenancies to continue its occupancy and use of the applicable Leased Property. Subject to
Section 20.1
Holding Over
Section 16.9
 
, nothing contained herein shall constitute the consent, express or implied, of Lessor to the holding over of Tenant after the expiration or earlier termination of this Lease.
Section 40.3
 
 
. This Lease and all rights of Tenant hereunder are subject and subordinate to all Facility Mortgages and all Superior Leases which may now or hereafter affect Lessor's interest in the applicable Leased Property and any interest of any Superior Lessor (all such leases and mortgages, collectively, the ""), and to all renewals, modifications, consolidations, replacements and extensions of the Superior Mortgages, , , that, in the case of any Superior Mortgages (other than the Existing Ground Leases), Tenant's aforesaid subordination shall be conditioned on Tenant's receipt of a so-called "non-disturbance" agreement in favor of Tenant from any such Superior Lessor (other than the Superior Lessors under the Existing Ground Leases) or Superior Mortgagee (defined below) on such Superior Lessor's or Superior Mortgagee's commercially reasonable standard form. This Section shall be self-operative and no further instrument of subordination shall be required. In confirmation of such subordination, Tenant agrees to execute and deliver promptly any commercially reasonable form of instrument (in recordable form, if requested) that Lessor, any Superior Lessor or the holder of any Superior Mortgage (a "") may request to evidence such subordination. Lessor shall use its reasonable efforts to obtain from each currently existing Facility Mortgagee a so-called "non-disturbance" agreement in favor of Tenant on such Facility Mortgagee's standard form.
Section 21.1
Subordination
Superior Mortgages
provided
however
Superior Mortgagee
 
. If the interests of Lessor under this Lease are transferred by reason of, or assigned in lieu of, foreclosure or other proceedings for enforcement of any such Superior Mortgage, or if any Superior Lease shall be terminated then Tenant shall, at the option of such purchaser, assignee or any Superior Lessor, as the case may be, (x) attorn to such party and perform for its benefit all the terms, covenants and conditions of this Lease on Tenant's part to be performed with the same force and effect as if such party were the landlord originally named in this Lease, or (y) enter into a New Lease with such party, as landlord, pursuant to hereof for the remaining Term and otherwise on the same terms and conditions of this Lease except that such successor landlord shall not be (i) liable for any previous act, omission or negligence of Lessor under this Lease; (ii) subject to any counterclaim, defense or offset which theretofore shall have accrued to Tenant against Lessor; (iii) bound by any previous modification or amendment of this Lease or by any previous prepayment of more than one month's rent, unless such modification, amendment or prepayment shall have been approved in writing by the Superior Lessor or the Superior Mortgagee through or by reason of which such successor landlord shall have succeeded to the rights of Lessor under this Lease or, in case of any such prepayment, such prepayment of rent has actually been delivered to such successor landlord; or (iv) liable for any security deposited pursuant to this Lease unless such security has actually been delivered to such successor landlord. Nothing contained in this Section shall be construed to impair any right otherwise exercisable by any such owner, holder or lessee.
Section 21.2
Attornment
Section 40.15
 
. If any act or omission by Lessor would give Tenant the right, immediately or after lapse of time, to cancel or terminate this Lease or to claim a partial or total eviction, or abatement of rent, setoff or counterclaim not otherwise expressly permitted by the terms of this Lease, Tenant will not exercise any such right until (i) it has given
Section 21.3
Mortgagee Cure Rights
 
written notice of such act or omission to each Superior Mortgagee whose name and address shall have previously been furnished to Tenant, by delivering notice of such act or omission addressed to each such party at its last address so furnished, (ii) Lessor shall have failed to cure the same within the time limits set forth in this Lease, and (iii) following the giving of such notice, no Superior Mortgagee and no Superior Lessor shall have remedied such act or omission (x) in the case of an act or omission which is capable of being remedied without possession of this Leased Property, within the cure period available to Lessor under this Lease plus sixty (60) days and (y) in the case of any act or omission which is incapable of being remedied without possession of the applicable Leased Property, within sixty (60) days following the date on which possession is obtained (either by such Superior Mortgagee or Superior Lessor or by a receiver in an action commenced by such Superior Mortgagee or Superior Lessor), a Superior Mortgagee or Superior Lessor has promptly commenced action to obtain possession and shall diligently pursue such action to completion and provided further that such Superior Mortgagee or Superior Lessor shall, with reasonable diligence, give Tenant notice of its intention to, and commence and continue to, remedy such act or omission or cause the same to be remedied.
provided
 
. Tenant shall execute any modification of this Lease requested by any Superior Mortgagee or prospective Superior Mortgagee to cause the terms of this Lease to conform with customary and reasonable mortgage financing requirements, provided that such modifications (i) do not materially adversely increase the obligations of Tenant hereunder or materially diminish Tenant's rights under this Lease or materially impair the right of a Leasehold Mortgagee, (ii) do not increase Rent payable hereunder, and (iii) are requested by any such Superior Mortgagee or prospective Superior Mortgagee only at the time of its initial loan advance or any subsequent extension of the maturity date of its loan or material modification of the terms of its loan. Tenant will not unreasonably withhold, delay or condition its consent to such modification, provided subsections (i), (ii) and (iii) above are complied with.
Section 21.4
Modifications
 
.
Section 21.5
Existing Ground Leases
 
Tenant shall, at its own cost and expense, fully observe, perform and comply with all of the obligations of Lessor, as lessee, under all Existing Ground Leases, if any, including, without limitation, all obligations relating to use of the Leased Properties, payment of ground rents, taxes, assessments and utility charges, maintenance and alterations of the Leased Properties and assignment and subletting. Tenant shall not cause, or permit its respective agents, employees, contractors, invitees, subtenants, licensees, concessionaires or assigns (whether or not permitted hereunder) to cause, whether by act or omission, any breach of, default under or termination of any Existing Ground Lease. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in or elsewhere in this Lease, an Event of Default shall be deemed to have occurred under this Lease on account of Tenant's breach of this , when, and only if, (i) Tenant's breach of this also results in a breach or default of an obligation under an Existing Ground Lease and (ii) such Existing Ground Lease breach or default is not cured by Tenant on or prior to the expiration of the cure period, if any, applicable to such breach or default by the terms of such Existing Ground Lease (or such longer cure period as may be expressly authorized by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction), and (iii) if the Existing Ground Lease breach or default referenced in subsection (i) above is a non-monetary, non-material breach or default of the Existing Ground Lease, on account of such Existing Ground Lease breach or default, such Existing Ground Lease is at material risk of being
Section 21.5.1
Section 16.1
Section 21.5.1
Section 21.5.1
 
terminated or has been terminated. Lessor agrees that, in the event Lessor receives any written notice of default from the ground lessor under any Existing Ground Lease, Lessor shall promptly forward a copy thereof to Tenant, and, in the event Lessor's Management Group obtains actual knowledge (as opposed to, and not including, constructive, imputed, assumed or other knowledge, and without any obligation to investigate or otherwise make inquiry) of any breach or default by the ground lessee under any Existing Ground Lease, then, unless Lessor's Management Group has the aforesaid actual knowledge that Tenant already has knowledge of such breach or default, Lessor shall promptly notify Tenant in writing of such breach or default. Lessor further agrees that Lessor shall timely exercise any options to renew or extend contained in the Existing Ground Leases, as and to the extent necessary from time to time so that each Existing Ground Lease shall not expire prior to the expiration or termination of this Lease as it applies to the Leased Property affected by such Existing Ground Lease (including any Extended Terms applicable to such Leased Property). Tenant agrees that, if Lessor, at its option, elects to cure an Event of Default under this , such cure shall not excuse Tenant from, or be deemed a cure of, such Event of Default, nor shall Tenant's reimbursement to Lessor of any costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in affecting any such cure be deemed a cure of any such Event of Default, , , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, even after the occurrence of such an Event of Default by Tenant and/or Lessor's cure thereof, Lessor agrees to accept Tenant's cure thereof, or reimbursement of Lessor's costs and expenses to effect such cure, provided, and on the condition, that Lessor has not, prior thereto, terminated this Lease as it affects the Leased Property to which such Existing Ground Lease relates or dispossessed Tenant from such Leased Property. Nothing contained in this shall limit or impair Lessor's indemnification rights under below.
Section 21.5.1
provided
however
Section 21.5
Section 24.1
 
If (a) an Existing Ground Lease breach or default of the nature described in above occurs, and (b) in the case of a non-monetary, non-material Existing Ground Lease breach or default, on account thereof, if the same is not cured, the condition referenced in above would, or is likely to, be satisfied, Tenant agrees that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in above or elsewhere in this Lease, Lessor may, but shall not be obligated to, in its discretion and regardless of whether Tenant is proceeding to cure, or attempting to cure, the Existing Ground Lease breach or default referenced in above or whether the cure period referenced in above has expired or is likely to expire before completion of necessary cure efforts, take such actions as it deems necessary or appropriate to attempt to cure such Existing Ground Lease breach or default, , , that, if the breach or default referenced in subsection (a) above has applicable thereto, by the express terms of the applicable Existing Ground Lease, a stated period to cure the same, Lessor agrees not to commence to cure such breach or default unless and until one-half (1/2) of the aforesaid stated cure period has elapsed. If Lessor so proceeds to attempt to cure any such Existing Ground Lease breach or default, Tenant agrees, within fifteen (15) days following receipt of a written demand therefor and reasonable supporting documentation, to reimburse Lessor for the reasonable amount of all costs and expenses incurred by Lessor in curing, or attempting to cure, any such Existing Ground Lease breach or default.
Section 21.5.2
Section 21.5.1(i)
Section 21.5.1(iii)
Section 17.1
Section 21.5.1(i)
Section 21.5.1(ii)
provided
however
 
 
. If Tenant shall mortgage Tenant's interest in one or more Leased Properties to a Lending Institution in accordance with the terms of this Lease, and
Section 22.1
Notice to Lessor
 
if the holder of the Leasehold Mortgage shall provide Lessor with a true copy of the Leasehold Mortgage and the name and address of the Leasehold Mortgagee (as hereinafter defined) and Lessor shall approve the Leasehold Mortgage, Lessor and Tenant agree that the provisions of this Section shall apply in respect to such Leasehold Mortgage. Lessor has heretofore approved the Leasehold Mortgages dated April 20, 2001 as amended in connection with the Tenant Credit Agreement securing the obligations of Kindred and its subsidiaries under the Tenant Credit Agreement, provided that such approval shall not constitute an agreement by Lessor to be bound by the terms of any such Leasehold Mortgage. In the event of any assignment of a Leasehold Mortgage or in the event of a change of address of a Leasehold Mortgagee or of an assignee of a Leasehold Mortgage, notice of the new name and address shall be provided to Lessor.
 
.
Section 22.2
Definitions
 
(a) The term "Leasehold Mortgage" as used in this Section shall include a mortgage, a deed of trust, a deed to secure debt, or other security instrument by which Tenant's leasehold estate is mortgaged or otherwise transferred, to secure a debt. "Leasehold Mortgage" shall be deemed to refer to all of the Leasehold Mortgages delivered to secure a debt.
 
(b) The term "Leasehold Mortgagee" as used in this Section shall refer to any and all holders of a Leasehold Mortgage approved by Lessor pursuant to the terms hereof. Lessor hereby approves of JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank, successor-by-merger to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York), as collateral agent, as the initial Leasehold Mortgagee, and any agent for any credit facilities secured by Tenant's leasehold interest hereunder.
 
. No cancellation or surrender (other than a termination following the occurrence of an Event of Default) and no amendment to or modification of, this Lease shall be effective as to the Leasehold Mortgagee without the prior written consent of such Leasehold Mortgagee, unless an amendment or modification is not reasonably likely to result in a material adverse effect on the rights of the Leasehold Mortgagee, the lien of the Leasehold Mortgages, or the value of the leasehold interest demised hereunder.
Section 22.3
Consent of Leasehold Mortgagee Required
 
. Lessor, upon providing Tenant any notice of: (a) default under this Lease or (b) a termination of this Lease, in whole or in part, shall at the same time provide a copy of such notice to the Leasehold Mortgagee. From and after the time such notice has been given to a Leasehold Mortgagee, the Leasehold Mortgagee shall have the same period, after the giving of such notice upon it, for remedying any default or acts or omissions which are the subject matter of such notice or causing the same to be remedied, as is given Tenant after the giving of such notice to Tenant, plus (i) except if subsection (ii) below is applicable, thirty (30) days to remedy, commence to remedy or cause to be remedied the defaults or acts or omissions which are the subject matter of such notice specified in any such notice, provided that such defaults are capable of being cured by the Leasehold Mortgagee or on behalf of the Leasehold Mortgagee, or (ii) fifteen (15) days to remedy any Rent defaults which are the subject matter of such notice specified in any such notice. Lessor shall accept such performance by or at the instigation of the Leasehold Mortgagee as if the same had been done by Tenant. Tenant authorizes each Leasehold Mortgagee to take any such action at the Leasehold Mortgagee's option and does hereby authorize entry upon the Leased Properties by the Leasehold Mortgagee
Section 22.4
Default Notice
 
for such purpose. If Leasehold Mortgagee has failed to cure Tenant's default within the above-mentioned time period, Lessor may exercise its rights and remedies specified in , and .
Sections 16.2
16.3
17.1
 
.
Section 22.5
Procedure for Foreclosure on Default
 
(a) If the Leasehold Mortgagee has commenced taking steps to acquire or sell Tenant's interest in this Lease by foreclosure of the Leasehold Mortgage or other appropriate means, the Leasehold Mortgagee shall provide Lessor notice of the same and shall prosecute the same to completion with due diligence.
 
(b) Following Lessor's receipt of such notice and so long as the Leasehold Mortgagee continues to prosecute to completion with due diligence such foreclosure or other means of acquiring or selling Tenant's interest in this Lease, and provided that the Leasehold Mortgagee complies with its obligations under subsection (c) below, this Lease shall not then terminate, and the time for completion by such Leasehold Mortgagee of its proceedings shall continue so long as such Leasehold Mortgagee is enjoined or stayed and thereafter for so long as such Leasehold Mortgagee proceeds to complete steps to acquire or sell Tenant's interest in this Lease by foreclosure of the Leasehold Mortgage or by other appropriate means with reasonable diligence and continuity. Nothing in this , however, shall be construed to extend this Lease beyond the original term thereof, as extended by any options to extend the term of this Lease properly exercised by Tenant or a Leasehold Mortgagee in accordance with , nor to require a Leasehold Mortgagee to continue such foreclosure proceedings after the default by Tenant has been cured. If the default by Tenant shall be cured and the Leasehold Mortgagee shall discontinue such foreclosure proceedings, this Lease shall continue in full force and effect as if Tenant had not defaulted under the Lease.
Section 22.5
Article XIX
 
(c) In addition, during such period, the Leasehold Mortgagee shall pay or cause to be paid the rent, additional rent and other monetary obligations of Tenant under this Lease as the same become due, and continue its good faith efforts to perform, or cause to be performed, all of Tenant's other obligations under this Lease.
 
.
Section 22.6
Assignment or Transfer in Lieu of Foreclosure
 
(a) For the purposes of this , the making of a Leasehold Mortgage shall not be deemed to constitute an assignment or transfer of this Lease or of the leasehold estate hereby created, nor shall any Leasehold Mortgagee, as such, be deemed to be an assignee or transferee of this Lease or of the leasehold estate hereby created so as to require the Leasehold Mortgagee, as such, to assume the performance of any of the terms, covenants or conditions on the part of Tenant to be performed hereunder, but the purchaser at any sale of this Lease and of the leasehold estate hereby created in any proceedings for the foreclosure of any Leasehold Mortgage, or the assignee or transferee of this Lease and of the leasehold estate hereby created under any instrument of assignment or transfer in lieu of the foreclosure of any Leasehold Mortgage, shall be deemed to be an assignee or transferee within the meaning of this , and shall be deemed to have agreed to perform all of the terms, covenants and conditions on the part of Tenant to be performed hereunder from and after the date of such purchase and assignment.
Section 22.6
Section 22.6
 
(b) Prior to any such purchase or assignment pursuant to a foreclosure or similar proceeding, or any transaction in lieu thereof, the Leasehold Mortgagee shall notify Lessor of the proposed transferee and obtain Lessor's written consent to such purchase or assignment. Subject to any state or other governmental requirements, Lessor shall not unreasonably withhold, condition or delay its consent to any sale or assignment, provided that (a) the purchaser or assignee (1) shall be a creditworthy entity with sufficient financial stability to satisfy its financial obligations under the Lease, (2) shall have not less than four years experience in operating health care facilities for the purpose of the applicable Facility's Primary Intended Use, (3) has a favorable business and operational reputation and character and (4) shall assume in writing and agree to keep and perform all of the terms of this Lease on the part of Tenant to be performed hereunder from and after the date of such purchase and assignment and (b) an original counterpart of each such purchase and sale agreement or instrument of assignment or transfer in lieu of foreclosure of any Leasehold Mortgage, duly executed by Tenant and such purchaser or assignee, as the case may be, in the form and substance satisfactory to Lessor, shall be delivered promptly to Lessor. Lessor's obligation to consent to a sale or assignment is subject to any reasonable approval rights of any Facility Mortgagee.
 
(c) (i) In the event of any dispute between Lessor and any Leasehold Mortgagee or Tenant regarding whether Lessor has unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed its consent to any sale or assignment in violation of or whether the other requirements of have been satisfied (the questions of whether Lessor has so violated and/or whether the aforesaid other requirements of have been satisfied are herein referred to collectively as the ""), as their sole remedy on account of any such dispute, Lessor may initiate an arbitration under this by written notice to Tenant and such Leasehold Mortgagee, or such Leasehold Mortgagee or Tenant may initiate an arbitration under this by written notice to Lessor, in each case to decide the Arbitration Question.
Section 22.6(b)
Section 22.6(b)
Section 22.6(b)
Section 22.6(b)
Arbitration Question
Section 22.6(c)
Section 22.6(c)
 
(ii) In such event, within ten (10) days following the issuance of any such arbitration initiation notice, each of Lessor and such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant) shall appoint a Qualified Arbitrator (as defined below), and, within seven (7) days following the appointment of such two (2) Qualified Arbitrators, such two (2) Qualified Arbitrators shall appoint a third Qualified Arbitrator. If either Lessor or such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant) shall fail to appoint a Qualified Arbitrator within the aforesaid ten (10) day period, the Qualified Arbitrator appointed by the other shall alone proceed to determine the Arbitration Question. If the two (2) Qualified Arbitrators appointed by Lessor and such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant) are unable to agree within the aforesaid seven (7) day period upon a third Qualified Arbitrator, then either Lessor or such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant), upon written notice to the other, may apply for such appointment to the American Arbitration Association in New York City (or any organization successor thereto) in accordance with the rules then prevailing of the American Arbitration Association (or such successor organization) and, if the American Arbitration Association (or such successor organization) shall fail to appoint said third Qualified Arbitrator within fifteen (15) days after such request is made, then either Lessor or such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant) may apply, on notice to the other to the Supreme Court, New York County (or any other court in New York City having jurisdiction) for the appointment of such third Qualified Arbitrator.
 
(iii) The three (3) Qualified Arbitrators that are so appointed (or the single Qualified Arbitrator appointed by Lessor or such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant) in the limited circumstance referenced above) shall decide the Arbitration Question within fifteen (15) days following their or his appointment.
 
(iv) Each of Lessor and such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant) shall be entitled to present evidence and arguments to the arbitrator(s). If either Lessor or such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant) submits one or more affidavits as part of its submission, the submitting party agrees, if requested by the other party, to produce such affiants for cross-examination under oath on the record at the hearings before the arbitrator(s). There shall be no pre-hearing discovery of any sort, unless specifically ordered by the arbitrator(s) upon a finding that such discovery is essential to the decision-making process. The parties to the arbitration shall conduct the arbitration in a cooperative spirit, in good faith, and in a manner designed to achieve expedition and economy.
 
(v) The determination of the Arbitration Question by the three (3) Qualified Arbitrator(s) (or the single Qualified Arbitrator acting alone as above provided) shall be conclusive upon Lessor, such Leasehold Mortgagee and Tenant and a final, unappealable judgment rendered by such arbitrator(s) relative to the Arbitration Question may be entered in any court having appropriate jurisdiction. The arbitrator or arbitrators, as the case may be, shall be required to give written notice to Lessor, such Leasehold Mortgagee and Tenant stating his or their determination relative to the Arbitration Question, and shall furnish to each of Lessor, such Leasehold Mortgagee and Tenant a signed copy of such determination.
 
(vi) Each of Lessor and such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant) shall pay its own counsel fees and the witness fees and similar expenses of preparing for its presentation of evidence and arguments at the arbitration hearing(s) and of making such presentation. Lessor and such Leasehold Mortgagee (for itself and Tenant) shall equally share any fees payable to the arbitrator(s), , , that the three (3) Qualified Arbitrators (or the single Qualified Arbitrator acting alone as above provided) shall have the authority to award costs to the prevailing party in the arbitration if such arbitrator(s) finds that the non-prevailing party acted in bad faith in connection with any arbitration hereunder.
provided
however
 
(vii) As used in this subsection (c), the term "Qualified Arbitrator" means a person or entity that is neither an Affiliate of Lessor, such Leasehold Mortgagee or Tenant nor interested in any financial manner in the outcome of the Arbitration Question or in Lessor, Tenant or any Leasehold Mortgagee and has at least ten (10) years experience as an owner or operator of nursing centers or hospitals or as a senior executive officer and/or director of the American Health Care Association and/or the Federation of American Health Systems or any successor organizations thereto or as a senior executive officer of a publicly traded healthcare real estate investment trust.
 
. In the event of any termination of this Lease, in whole or in part, Lessor agrees to enter into a new lease ("") of the Leased Property(ies) in question with the Leasehold Mortgagee or its designee for the remainder of the term of this Lease, effective as of the date of termination, at the rent and additional rent, and upon the terms,
Section 22.7
Separate Lease
Separate Lease
 
covenants and conditions (including all options to renew but excluding requirements which are not applicable or which have already been fulfilled) identical to this Lease, provided:
 
(a) The Leasehold Mortgagee shall make written request upon Lessor for such Separate Lease within sixty (60) days after the date the Leasehold Mortgagee receives Lessor's notice of termination of this Lease given pursuant to .
Section 22.4
 
(b) At the time of the execution and delivery of such Separate Lease, the Leasehold Mortgagee or its designee shall pay or cause to be paid to Lessor any and all sums which would at the time of execution and delivery thereof be due pursuant to this Lease but for such termination and, in addition thereto, all reasonable expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, which Lessor shall have incurred by reason of such termination and the execution and delivery of the Separate Lease and which have not otherwise been received by Lessor from Tenant or other party in interest under Tenant. Upon the execution of such Separate Lease, Lessor shall allow to the tenant named therein as an offset against the sums otherwise due under this or under the Separate Lease, an amount equal to the net income derived by Lessor from the Leased Properties during the period from the date of termination of this Lease to the date of the beginning of the lease term of such Separate Lease. In the event of a controversy as to the amount to be paid to Lessor pursuant to this , the payment obligation shall be satisfied if Lessor shall be paid the amount not in controversy, and the Leasehold Mortgagee or its designee shall agree to pay any additional sum ultimately determined to be due plus interest at the Overdue Rate and such obligation shall be adequately secured.
Section 22.7(b)
Section 22.7(b)
 
(c) Such Separate Lease shall be deemed to be a New Lease and the provisions of shall apply.
Section 40.15
 
(d) The Leasehold Mortgagee or its designee shall agree to remedy any of Tenant's defaults of which said Leasehold Mortgagee was notified by Lessor's notice of termination given pursuant to and which are reasonably susceptible of being so cured by Leasehold Mortgagee or its designee.
Section 22.4
 
(e) The tenant under such Separate Lease shall have the same right, title and interest in and to the Leased Properties to which such Separate Lease relates and the buildings and improvements thereon as Tenant had under this Lease.
 
(f) The tenant under any such Separate Lease shall be liable to perform the obligations imposed on Tenant by such Separate Lease only during the period such tenant under such Separate Lease has ownership of such leasehold estate.
 
(g) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , in connection with obtaining a New Lease with respect to a particular Leased Property as provided herein and in , (i) if, prior to the effective date of any such New Lease, Lessor has exercised its right to collect amounts from Tenant with respect to such Leased Property pursuant to hereof, in order to cure existing monetary defaults relative to such Leased Property, Leasehold Mortgagee or its designee shall not be obligated to pay to Lessor any amount on account of the net present value of any Rent allocable to such Leased Property for the period from and after the effective date of such New Lease, but instead shall pay such Rent for
Section 22.7
Section 40.15
Section 16.3(A)(ii)
 
such period at the time and in the manner set forth in such New Lease and consistent with hereof; and (ii) Leasehold Mortgagee or its designee shall not be required to cure any non-monetary defaults by Tenant that are not reasonably susceptible of being cured by Leasehold Mortgagee or its designee."
Article III
 
. If more than one Leasehold Mortgagee shall request a Separate Lease pursuant to as to the same Leased Property(ies), Lessor shall enter into such Separate Lease with the Leasehold Mortgagee whose mortgage is prior in lien, or with the designee of the Leasehold Mortgagee. Lessor, without liability to Tenant or any Leasehold Mortgagee with an adverse claim, may rely upon a mortgagee title insurance policy or policies issued by a responsible title insurance company as the basis for determining the appropriate Leasehold Mortgagee who is entitled to such Separate Lease.
Section 22.8
Separate Lease Properties
Section 22.7(a)
 
. Lessor shall give each Leasehold Mortgagee prompt notice of any legal proceedings between Lessor and Tenant involving obligations under this Lease. Each Leasehold Mortgagee shall have the right to intervene in any such proceedings and be made a party to such proceedings, and the parties hereto do hereby consent to such intervention. In the event that any Leasehold Mortgagee shall not elect to intervene or become a party to any such proceedings, Lessor shall give the Leasehold Mortgagee notice of, and a copy of any decision made in, any such proceedings, which shall be binding on all Leasehold Mortgagees not intervening after receipt of notice of such proceedings.
Section 22.9
Legal Proceedings
 
. In the event on any occasions hereafter Tenant seeks to mortgage the leasehold estate created hereby, Lessor agrees to amend this Lease from time to time to the extent reasonably requested by a Lending Institution proposing to make Tenant a loan secured by a first lien upon Tenant's leasehold estate, provided that such proposed amendments do not adversely affect the rights of Lessor or its interest in the Leased Properties. All reasonable expenses incurred by Lessor in connection with any such amendment shall be paid by Tenant.
Section 22.10
Future Amendments
 
. Lessor and Tenant shall, without charge, at any time and from time to time hereafter, within ten (10) days after written request of the other party to do so, certify by written instrument duly executed and acknowledged to any mortgagee or purchaser, or proposed Leasehold Mortgagee or Superior Mortgagee or proposed purchaser, or any other person, firm or corporation specified in such request: (a) as to whether this Lease has been supplemented or amended, and if so, the substance and manner of such supplement or amendment; (b) as to the validity and force and effect of this Lease; (c) as to the existence of any Event of Default hereunder; (d) as to the existence of any offsets, counterclaims or defenses hereto on the part of either party; (e) as to the commencement and expiration dates of the Term of this Lease; and (f) as to any other matters as may be reasonably so requested. Any such certificate may be relied upon by the other party and any other person, firm or corporation to whom the same may be exhibited or delivered, and the contents of such certificate shall be binding on the party so certifying.
Section 22.11
Estoppel Certificate
 
. Notices from Lessor to the Leasehold Mortgagee shall be mailed to the address furnished Lessor pursuant to and those from the Leasehold Mortgagee to Lessor shall be mailed to the address designated pursuant to the provisions of
Section 22.12
Notices
Section 22.1
 
hereof. Such notices, demands and requests shall be given in the manner described in and shall in all respects be governed by the provisions of that section.
Section 34.1
Section 34.1
 
. No payment made to Lessor by a Leasehold Mortgagee shall constitute agreement that such payment was, in fact, due under the terms of this Lease; and a Leasehold Mortgagee having made any payment to Lessor pursuant to Lessor's wrongful, improper or mistaken notice or demand shall be entitled to the return of any such payment or portion thereof provided such Leasehold Mortgagee shall have made demand therefor not later than one year after the date of its payment.
Section 22.13
Erroneous Payments
 
. Lessor acknowledges that each of the Leased Properties is covered, and may in the future be covered, by a separate Leasehold Mortgage and that, due to the fact that the applicable law of each jurisdiction differs as to the procedures (including, without limitation, the periods for notices of sale to be published) for the exercise by a Leasehold Mortgagee of remedies under a Leasehold Mortgage and that certain of the Leasehold Mortgages may be of Leased Properties located in jurisdictions that are subject to anti-deficiency judgment, election of remedies and/or one-form-of-action statutes making it advisable for a Leasehold Mortgagee to exercise remedies with respect to such Leased Properties in a certain order, the Leasehold Mortgagee may be required under applicable law to, or due to applicable remedial limitations including those described above, may reasonably elect to exercise remedies against less than all of the Leased Properties at a particular time and/or may elect, or may be required by applicable law, to exercise remedies against the Leased Properties in a particular order. Therefore, Lessor agrees that its obligations under this are applicable to each Leased Property. For example, Lessor may be asked to enter into a Separate Lease with respect to less than all of the Leased Properties pursuant to and/or Lessor may be asked to approve a proposed transferee of a particular Leased Property pursuant to .
Section 22.14
Exercise by Leasehold Mortgagee of Remedies Against One or More Leased Properties
Article XXII
Section 22.7
Section 22.6(b)
 
 
. During the Term of this Lease, the risk of loss or of decrease in the enjoyment and beneficial use of each Leased Property in consequence of the damage or destruction thereof by fire, the elements, casualties, thefts, riots, wars or otherwise, or in consequence of foreclosures, attachments, levies or executions (other than by Lessor and those claiming from, through or under Lessor) is assumed by Tenant, and, in the absence of gross negligence, willful misconduct or breach of this Lease by Lessor pursuant to , Lessor shall in no event be answerable or accountable therefor nor shall any of the events mentioned in this Section entitle Tenant to any abatement of Rent.
Section 23.1
Risk of Loss
Section 38.3
 
 
. Notwithstanding the existence of any insurance provided for in , and without regard to the policy limits of any such insurance, Tenant will protect, indemnify, save harmless and defend Lessor from and against all liabilities, obligations, claims, damages, penalties, causes of action, costs and reasonable expenses (including, without limitation, Litigation Costs), to the maximum extent permitted by law, imposed upon or incurred by or asserted against Lessor by reason of: (a) any accident, injury to or death of persons or loss
Section 24.1
Indemnification
Article XIII
 
of or damage to property occurring on or about any Leased Property or adjoining sidewalks, including without limitation any claims of malpractice, (b) any use, misuse, non-use, condition, maintenance or repair by Tenant or anyone claiming under Tenant, including agents, contractors, invitees or visitors of any Leased Property or Tenant's Personal Property, (c) any Impositions (which are the obligations of Tenant to pay pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Lease), (d) any failure on the part of Tenant or anyone claiming under Tenant to perform or comply with any of the terms of this Lease, (e) subject to hereof, any failure by Tenant to observe, perform and comply with the terms of any Existing Ground Lease or other Permitted Encumbrance applicable to or binding upon Lessor or any of the Leased Properties or any breach of, default under or termination of any such Existing Ground Lease or other Permitted Encumbrance caused, whether by act or omission, by Tenant or its agents, employees, contractors, invitees, subtenants, licensees, concessionaires or assigns (whether or not permitted hereunder), and (f) the non-performance of any of the terms and provisions of any and all existing and future subleases of any Leased Property to be performed by the subtenant thereunder. Any amounts which become payable by Tenant under this Section shall be paid within ten (10) days after liability therefor on the part of Tenant is determined by litigation or otherwise, and if not timely paid, shall bear interest (to the extent permitted by law) at the Overdue Rate from the date of such determination to the date of payment. Tenant, at its expense, shall contest, resist and defend any such claim, action or proceeding asserted or instituted against Lessor or, subject to clauses (A) and (B) below, may compromise or otherwise dispose of the same as Tenant sees fit. Nothing herein shall be construed as indemnifying Lessor against its own negligent acts or omissions or willful misconduct. If at any time Lessor shall have notice of a claim, Lessor shall give reasonably prompt written notice of such claim to Tenant; (i) Lessor shall have no liability for a failure to give notice of any claim of which Tenant has otherwise been notified or has knowledge and (ii) the failure of Lessor to give such a notice to Tenant shall not limit the rights of Lessor or the obligations of Tenant with respect to such claim except to the extent that Tenant incurs actual expenses or suffers actual monetary loss as a result of such failure. Tenant shall have the right to control the defense or settlement of any claim, provided that (A) Tenant shall first confirm in writing to Lessor that such claim is within the scope of this indemnity and that Tenant shall pay any and all amounts required to be paid in respect of such claim and (B) if the compromise or settlement of any such claim shall not result in the complete release of Lessor from the claim so compromised or settled, the compromise or settlement shall require the prior written approval of Lessor. Lessor shall have the right to approve counsel engaged to defend such claim and, at its election and sole cost and expense, shall have the right, but not the obligation, to participate in the defense of any claim.
Section 7.3.2
provided
that
 
Lessor shall indemnify, save harmless and defend Tenant from and against all liabilities, obligations, claims, damages, penalties, causes of action, costs and expenses imposed upon or incurred by or asserted against Tenant as a result of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Lessor under and in connection with this Lease.
 
Tenant's and Lessor's respective duties, liabilities and obligations under this Article shall survive the expiration or termination of this Lease as to any or all of the Leased Properties. For example, if (x) John Doe is injured in a slip-and-fall accident that occurs at Leased Property A on January 1, 2005 and of which Lessor has no notice or knowledge, (y) this Lease terminates for any reason on March 1, 2005 with respect to Leased Property A, and (z) on July 1, 2005, John Doe begins a lawsuit against Lessor on account of the aforesaid accident, then, notwithstanding
 
such termination, Tenant's indemnification and other obligations with respect to such accident and lawsuit under subsection (a) above and the other provisions of this Article shall survive such termination with respect to Leased Property A.
 
 
.
Section 25.1
Subletting and Assignment
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Lease but subject to and below, Tenant shall have no right, directly or indirectly, to assign this Lease in part under any circumstances. Subject to the foregoing, except as expressly provided herein, Tenant shall not, without the prior written consent of Lessor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing hereunder, assign this Lease in its entirety or mortgage, pledge, hypothecate, encumber or otherwise transfer any interest in this Lease in whole or in part or sublease all or any part of any Leased Property or suffer or permit this Lease or the leasehold estate created hereby or thereby or any other rights arising under this Lease to be assigned in its entirety or to be transferred, mortgaged, pledged, hypothecated or encumbered, in whole or in part, whether voluntarily or involuntarily or by operation of law, or permit the use or occupancy of any Leased Property to be offered or advertised for assignment or subletting except as hereinafter provided. For purposes of this , an assignment of this Lease shall be deemed to include any change in control of any Tenant, as if such change in control or transaction were an assignment of this Lease. Changes in control of any Tenant shall include, without limitation, (a) a change in the composition of the board of directors of any Tenant or any Guarantor such that at the end of any period of twelve (12) consecutive months the persons constituting a majority of such board of directors are not the same as the persons constituting a majority at the start of such period (or persons appointed by such majority), (b) the sale or other disposition of (i) all or any part of its interest in any Guarantor or (ii) all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor or any Tenant (other than a bona fide pledge in connection with a financing approved by Lessor), and (c) a merger or consolidation involving any Guarantor or any Tenant, which results in the stockholders of any Guarantor or any Tenant immediately prior to such event owning less than 50% of the capital stock of the surviving entity or any public parent of the surviving entity. For purposes of this , a sublease of all or any part of any Leased Property shall be deemed to include any concessionaire agreement, license agreement or other agreement involving use or possession of all or any part of any Leased Property.
Section 25.1.1
Sections 25.4
25.1.11
Section 25.1
Section 25.1
 
Subject to the provisions of below and any other express conditions or limitations set forth herein, so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing hereunder, Tenant may, without the consent of Lessor, (i) assign this Lease in its entirety or sublet all or any part of any Leased Property to any Affiliate of Tenant, or (ii) sublet up to an aggregate of 20% of the rentable square footage of any Facility (x) in the normal course of the Primary Intended Use such as but not limited to leasing of space for major moveable equipment or functional departments such as pathology, pharmacy and radiology, or (y) to concessionaires or other third party users or operators of portions of the Leased Property, provided that, in the case of both clauses (i) and (ii) above, the assignee or subtenant in question is duly licensed and possessed of all Authorizations necessary for the conduct of its activities and the operation of such Leased Property or portion thereof in accordance with all applicable laws.
Section 25.1.2
Section 25.3
 
So long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing hereunder, Lessor shall not unreasonably withhold, delay or condition its consent to any other subletting of the Leased Properties in whole or in part or assignment of this Lease in its entirety, provided that (a) in the case of a subletting, (1) the subtenant shall comply with the provisions of , and (2) if the subtenant is an Affiliate of any Tenant, the subtenant shall execute and deliver to Lessor a Lease Guaranty in accordance with hereof, (b) the assignee or subtenant (1) shall be a creditworthy entity with sufficient financial stability to satisfy its obligations under the Lease, (2) shall have not less than four years experience in operating health care facilities for the purpose of the applicable Facility's Primary Intended Use, (3) has a favorable business and operational reputation and character, (4) has all licenses, permits, approvals and other Authorizations required to operate the Leased Property(ies) in question for the Primary Intended Use (or any other use permitted under the terms of this Lease), and (5) in the case of an assignment, shall assume in writing and agree to keep and perform all of the terms of this Lease on the part of Tenant to be kept and performed and shall be, and become, jointly and severally liable with Tenant for the performance thereof, (c) an original counterpart of each such sublease and assignment and assumption, duly executed by Tenant and such subtenant or assignee, as the case may be, in the form and substance satisfactory to Lessor, shall be delivered promptly to Lessor, and (d) in case of either an assignment or subletting, Tenant shall remain primarily liable, as principal rather than as surety, for the prompt payment of the Rent and for the performance and observance of all of the covenants and conditions to be performed by Tenant hereunder. Lessor's obligation to consent to a subletting or assignment is subject to any reasonable approval rights of any Facility Mortgagee.
Section 25.2
Section 40.12
 
If this Lease is assigned or if any Leased Property or any part thereof is sublet (or occupied by any entity other than Tenant and its employees), Lessor, after an Event of Default occurs and so long as it is continuing, may collect the rents from such assignee, subtenant or occupant, as the case may be, and apply the net amount collected to the Rent herein reserved, but no such collection shall be deemed a waiver of the provisions set forth in , the acceptance by Lessor of such assignee, subtenant or occupant, as the case may be, as a tenant or release of Tenant from the future performance of its covenants, agreements or obligations contained in this Lease.
Section 25.1.3
Section 25.1.1
 
No subletting or assignment shall in any way impair the continuing primary liability of Tenant hereunder, and no consent to any subletting or assignment in any particular instance shall be deemed a waiver of the prohibition set forth in this . No assignment, subletting or occupancy shall affect the Primary Intended Use. Any subletting, assignment or other transfer of Tenant's interest in this Lease in contravention of this shall be void at Lessor's option.
Section 25.1.4
Section 25.1
Section 25.1
 
If Tenant shall desire to assign this Lease or sublet all (but not a portion) of any Leased Property other than an assignment or sublease to an Affiliate, it shall first submit in writing to Lessor a notice ("") indicating (a) the name of the proposed assignee or subtenant, (b) the material terms of the proposed assignment or sublease, (c) the nature and character of the business which the proposed assignee or subtenant will conduct at the applicable Leased Property, (d) reasonable financial data concerning the proposed assignee or subtenant, and (e) the effective date of the proposed assignment or the commencement date and expiration date of the proposed sublease. Tenant shall additionally submit to Lessor any other
Section 25.1.5
Tenant's Notice
 
information concerning the proposed assignment or sublease which Lessor may reasonably request and, prior to the effective date of any assignment permitted hereunder or the commencement date of any sublease permitted hereunder, Tenant shall deliver to Lessor evidence reasonably satisfactory to Lessor that the assignee or subtenant has all licenses, permits, approvals and other Authorizations necessary to operate each Leased Property for the Primary Intended Use (or any other use permitted under the terms of this Lease). Except to the extent such subletting or assignment is authorized under below, if such notice is given, Lessor may, at its option, terminate this Lease as to the applicable Leased Property, in which event, the provisions of hereof shall apply. Lessor shall exercise its option by notice to Tenant within 30 days after Tenant's Notice (or receipt by Lessor of all information reasonably requested by Lessor pursuant to this ), and during such 30-day period, Tenant shall not have the right to assign this Lease or sublet such space.
Section 25.1.11
Section 40.16
Section 25.1.5
 
If Lessor exercises its option under to terminate this Lease, this Lease shall terminate (either as to each Leased Property or as to the applicable Leased Property, whichever is applicable) on the date which is 60 days following Tenant's Notice or on such later date as may be specified in Tenant's Notice, all Rent allocable to the Leased Property(ies) in question in accordance with hereof shall be paid and apportioned to the date of such termination and the provisions of hereof shall apply in the event this Lease remains in effect as to any Leased Properties. If Lessor shall exercise its options under , Lessor may, and shall have no liability to Tenant if Lessor shall, lease to Tenant's prospective subtenant or assignee.
Section 25.1.6
Section 25.1.5
Section 16.9
Section 40.16
Section 25.1.5
 
(a) Except in the case of an assignment or sublet pursuant to hereof and subject to subsections (b) and (c) below, Tenant shall pay to Lessor, as Additional Charges, (i) as and when received by Tenant, 80% of any consideration (including, without limitation, capital stock, stock options or warrants, license fees and all other forms of remuneration) received on account of any assignment and (ii) 80% of the excess of:
Section 25.1.7
Section 25.1.2(i)
 
(x) any rents, additional charges, or other consideration (including, without limitation, capital stock, stock options or warrants, license fees and all other forms of remuneration) payable to Tenant under any sublease, after deducting therefrom brokerage commissions and legal fees paid by Tenant in connection with such subletting, over (y) the sum of (1) a share of the Base Rent, real estate taxes and assessments, insurance premiums and charges for utility usage that, on a monthly basis, are owing with respect, or otherwise allocable, to the applicable Leased Property (with such share to be equal to (A) if the applicable sublease relates primarily to use of areas within the Facility(ies) located on the applicable Leased Property, the product of the total of the aforesaid Base Rent, real estate taxes and assessments, insurance premiums and utility usage charges owing with respect, or allocable, to the applicable Leased Property for a particular month times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of rentable square feet under the applicable sublease and the denominator of which is the aggregate number of rentable square feet in the Facility(ies) located on the applicable Leased Property, and (B) if the applicable sublease relates primarily to use of areas outside the
 
Facility(ies) located on the applicable Leased Property, that portion of the aforesaid real estate taxes, insurance premiums and charges for utility usage as are, in the reasonable judgment of Tenant (and with supporting documentation to be delivered to Lessor upon written request), attributable to the areas outside the Facility(ies) located on the applicable Leased Property), plus (2) the amount (amortized, if applicable, as described below) of the actual out of pocket costs, if any, incurred by Tenant (on behalf of itself and, to the extent related to "Sublease Rent Payments" (as defined below), on behalf of Lessor's 80% from time to time during the applicable sublease and directly attributable to (aa) extending telephone service to the portion of the applicable Leased Property that is subleased per the applicable sublease or (bb) performing repairs to the portion of the applicable Leased Property that is subleased per the applicable sublease (and, for purposes of this subsection (2) and the calculation of "Sublease Rent Payments", as hereinafter defined, (X) in the case of any costs of the nature referenced in this subsection (2) that, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, are treated as capital costs, such costs shall be amortized on a straight line basis over the longer of the useful life of the improvements or repairs to which such costs relate or the initial term of the applicable sublease, and in each month the amortized amount of such costs shall be deemed to have been incurred by Tenant, and (Y) in the case of all other costs of the nature referenced in this subsection (2), such costs shall be treated as incurred by Tenant as and when expended),
 
(such excess of (ii)(x) over (ii)(y) is referred to herein as the ""). Lessor's share, as aforesaid, of any such Sublease Rent Payments shall be paid by Tenant to Lessor as and when the Sublease Rent Payments are received by Tenant; , , that:
Sublease Rent Payments
provided
however
 
(cc) within sixty (60) days after the end of each calendar year, Tenant shall deliver to Lessor a Senior Officer's Certificate certifying the amount of Lessor's share of Sublease Rent Payments for the preceding calendar year and setting forth how such amount was calculated and containing a detailed breakdown of the revenues and expenses used in making such calculation, and, within thirty (30) days after Lessor's receipt of such certificate, if the aggregate amount paid by Tenant to Lessor during such preceding calendar year on account of Lessor's share of Sublease Rent Payments for such year exceeds the amount of Lessor's share as shown in such certificate, then, subject to subsection (dd) below, Lessor shall pay the overage to Tenant, and, if the aggregate amount paid by Tenant to Lessor during such preceding calendar year on account of Lessor's share of Sublease Rent Payments for such year is less than the amount of Lessor's share as shown in such certificate, Tenant shall pay such deficiency to Lessor. Lessor shall be entitled, upon three (3) Business Days prior written notice and within normal business hours, to review, and make abstracts from and copies of, Tenant's books, accounts and records
 
relative to Tenant's subleases of any Leased Property and the calculation of Lessor's share of Sublease Rent Payments for any period; and
 
(dd) for purposes of subsection (cc) above and the other provisions of this , Lessor's share of Sublease Rent Payments shall in no event be a negative number and, for all purposes of subsection (cc) above and the other provisions of this , for any calendar year in which the amount referenced in subsection (ii)(x) above for such year is less than the amount referenced in subsection (ii)(y) above for such year, the "Sublease Rent Payments" shall be deemed to equal zero for such year. (For example, if Tenant subleases a portion of a Leased Property, subsection (ii) above is applicable thereto, during a particular calendar year Sublease Rent Payments are received by Tenant in the aggregate amount of $100.00, and during such calendar year Tenant paid to Lessor the following monthly amounts on account of Lessor's share of Sublease Rent Payments: for each of the months January through July, $20.00 (i.e.: $140.00 in aggregate) and for each of the months August through December, $0.00, then, within thirty (30) days after Lessor's receipt of Tenant's aforesaid Senior Officer's Certificate for such calendar year, Lessor would be obligated to pay to Tenant $60.00, representing the overage of the aggregate amount received by Lessor during such calendar year ($140.00) over Lessor's share of the Sublease Rent Payments for such calendar year ($80.00 or 80% of $100.00). Alternatively, if the preceding facts are assumed except that, during the subject calendar year, the amount referenced in subsection (ii)(x) above is less than the amount referenced in subsection (ii)(y) above by $50.00, then, pursuant to subsection (dd) above, the Sublease Rent Payments for such calendar year shall be deemed to equal $0.00, and, consequently, within thirty (30) days following receipt of Tenant's aforesaid Senior Officer's Certificate for such calendar year, Lessor would be obligated to pay to Tenant $140.00, representing the overage of the aggregate amount received by Lessor during such calendar year ($140.00) over Lessor's share of the deemed Sublease Rent Payments for such calendar year ($0.00 or 80% of $0.00)).
Section 25.1.7
Section 25.1.7
 
In the event of a foreclosure by a Leasehold Mortgagee as to a particular Leased Property(ies), Lessor's right to 80% of such Sublease Rent Payments relating to such Leased Property(ies) shall be subordinate to such Leasehold Mortgagee's right of payment. In the event of an assignment or sublet pursuant to Section 25.1.2(i) hereof, the provisions of this shall apply to any further assignment or sublet to a person or entity that is not an Affiliate of Tenant.
Section 25.1.7
 
(b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided in this Lease, in the event Tenant enters into a sublease, license agreement, easement or other agreement (an "") pursuant to which a third party is given the right to access, maintain or operate on any Leased Property, any antenna, cell tower, satellite dish, cable or wire installation, or other communication or telecommunication equipment, any billboard or signage, or any facility or service not within the primary scope of Tenant's business as it was conducted on April 20, 2001, Tenant shall pay Lessor, as Additional Charges as and when payable to Tenant, 80% of
Ancillary Agreement
 
any consideration (including, without limitation, capital stock, stock options or warrants, license fees and all other forms of remuneration) received on account of such Ancillary Agreement. At the request of Lessor, Tenant shall direct the third party in any Ancillary Agreement to pay Lessor's 80% share of such consideration directly to Lessor. No such Ancillary Agreement shall be entered into by Tenant without the prior written consent of Lessor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned so long as Tenant complies with the applicable requirements of subsections (a) through (d) of above.
Section 25.1.2
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in subsection (a)(ii) above, Lessor shall not be entitled to any Sublease Rent Payments on account of any sublease of space within a Leased Property for a flower shop, beauty salon, barber shop, gift shop, restaurant, cafeteria, coffee shop, snack shop or the like or any other concessionaires (which term shall not include, without limitation, medical offices and clinics and other providers of medical services) typically found in nursing centers or hospitals (as applicable depending upon the Primary Intended Use of the particular Leased Property) (including those subleases of the nature referenced in this subsection (c) existing at the Leased Properties as of April 20, 2001), so long as the aggregate square footage of such Leased Property that is subleased for such uses does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the rentable space within the Facility(ies) located on such Leased Property.
 
Any assignment and/or sublease must provide that (a) it shall be subject and subordinate to all of the terms and conditions of this Lease, (b) the use of the applicable Leased Property shall be restricted to the applicable Primary Intended Use and shall not conflict with any Legal Requirement, Insurance Requirement or any other provision of this Lease, (c) no sublessee or assignee shall be permitted to further sublet all or any part of the applicable Leased Property or assign this Lease or its sublease except as expressly provided in this Lease and (d) in the event of cancellation or termination of this Lease for any reason whatsoever or of the surrender of this Lease whether voluntary, involuntary or by operation of law, prior to the expiration date of such sublease, including extensions and renewals granted thereunder, at Lessor's option, the subtenant shall make full and complete attornment to Lessor for the balance of the term of the sublease, which attornment shall be evidenced by an agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Lessor and which the subtenant shall execute and deliver within 5 days after request by Lessor, its successors or assigns and the subtenant shall waive the provisions of any law now or hereafter in effect which may give the subtenant any right of election to terminate the sublease or to surrender possession in the event any proceeding is brought by Lessor to terminate this Lease.
Section 25.1.8
 
Any assignment of this Lease or sublease of the applicable Leased Property in contravention of the express terms of this shall be voidable at Lessor's option and the acceptance of rent by Lessor from any such unauthorized assignee or subtenant shall not constitute a recognition or acceptance of the tenancy of such unauthorized assignee or subtenant.
Section 25.1.9
Article XXV
 
Tenant shall pay to Lessor, within ten (10) business days after request therefor, all costs and expenses, including without limitation reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by Lessor in connection with any request by Tenant to assign this Lease or sublet the applicable Leased Property.
Section 25.1.10
 
Notwithstanding the other prohibitions and restrictions on assignment and subletting contained in this , provided Tenant shall have complied with the notice and information requirements of above, Tenant shall have the right to assign or sublet to a non-Affiliate (x) without the consent of Lessor, not more than ten percent (10%) in the aggregate of the Master Lease Leased Properties which are nursing centers and (y) with Lessor's consent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned), not more than two (2) Master Lease Leased Properties which are hospitals, but only if either (i) the applicable regulatory authorities have threatened, or commenced proceedings, to revoke Tenant's Medicaid or Medicare certification for reimbursement or other Authorizations necessary to operate such nursing center or hospital Leased Property, as applicable, or (ii) Tenant cannot profitably operate such Leased Property, in which event:
Section 25.1.11
Section 25.1
Section 25.1.5
 
(a) such assignment and/or subletting shall comply in all respects with clauses (a) through (d) of the second sentence of above (upon Tenant's request, Lessor agrees to provide an estoppel certificate certifying that, to the best of Lessor's knowledge, such clauses (a) through (d) have been satisfied or, if such is not the case to the best of Lessor's knowledge, certifying the manner in which such clauses have not been satisfied to the best of Lessor's knowledge);
Section 25.1.2
 
(b) Lessor shall give such assignee or subtenant assurances of quiet enjoyment, in accordance with a mutually satisfactory non-disturbance and attornment agreement, such that so long as such assignee or subtenant pays Rent allocable to such Leased Property and otherwise complies with all covenants and obligations of the Tenant under this Lease with respect to such Leased Property, no other default under this Lease shall affect or give rise to any right to terminate its leasehold of such Leased Property; and
 
(c) any default by such assignee or subtenant in the payment of Rent or in complying with all other covenants and obligations of the Tenant with respect to such Leased Property shall continue to constitute a default under this Lease, entitling Lessor to all its rights and remedies hereunder.
 
To the extent that any of the Master Lease Leased Properties are the subject of a New Lease derived, directly or indirectly, from the Original Master Lease, Tenant shall continue to have the right to assign or sublet such Master Lease Leased Properties upon compliance with this or the corresponding section of such New Lease, as applicable, but such right to assign or sublet, whether under of the Original Master Lease or the corresponding section of any and all New Leases derived, directly or indirectly, from the Original Master Lease (including, without limitation, this Lease), shall never exceed ten percent (10%) in the aggregate of the nursing centers included within the Master Lease Leased Properties or two (2) hospitals included within the Master Lease Leased Properties.
Section 25.1.11
Section 25.1.11
 
. Tenant shall insert in each sublease permitted under provisions to the effect that (a) such sublease is subject and subordinate to all of the terms and provisions of this Lease and to the rights of Lessor hereunder (except to the extent such subtenant is entitled to quiet enjoyment assurances under above), (b) in the event this Lease shall terminate before the expiration of such sublease, the subtenant thereunder will, at Lessor's option, attorn to Lessor and waive any right the subtenant may have to terminate the
Section 25.2
Attornment
Section 25.1
Section 25.1.11
 
sublease or to surrender possession thereunder, as a result of the termination of this Lease, and (c) in the event the subtenant receives a written notice from Lessor or Lessor's assignees, if any, stating that an Event of Default has occurred, the subtenant shall thereafter be obligated to pay all rentals accruing under said sublease directly to the party giving such notice, or as such party may direct. All rentals received from the subtenant by Lessor or Lessor's assignees, if any, as the case may be, shall be credited against the amounts owing by Tenant under this Lease.
 
. Anything contained in this Lease to the contrary notwithstanding, Tenant shall not sublet any Leased Property on any basis such that the rental to be paid by the subtenant thereunder would be based, in whole or in part, on either (i) the income or profits derived by the business activities of the subtenant, or (ii) any other formula such that any portion of the sublease rental received by Lessor would fail to qualify as "rents from real property" within the meaning of Section 856(d) of the Code, or any similar or successor provision thereto.
Section 25.3
Sublease Limitation
 
. Nothing contained in this shall limit or impair any rights of the Leasehold Mortgagee under , including, without limitation, any such rights to obtain a Leasehold Mortgage upon less than all of the Leased Properties and, in the circumstances referenced in , to obtain a Separate Lease as to less than all of the Leased Properties.
Section 25.4
Leasehold Mortgagee Rights
Article XXV
Article XXII
Section 22.7
 
 
. Each Tenant shall maintain, for itself and its subsidiaries, a system of accounting established and administered in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and shall provide Lessor with the following information:
Section 26.1
Financial Statements and Reporting
 
(a) As soon as available but in no event later than forty-five (45) days after the close of each fiscal month and within fifty (50) days after the close each of the first three fiscal quarters, for Tenant, an unaudited consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations as of the close of each such period and the related unaudited consolidated statements of income, cash flows and stockholders equity for such period and for the year to date of Tenant and its Subsidiaries (collectively, ""), setting forth in each case in comparative form the corresponding figures for the previous year, all prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and all certified in an Officer's Certificate to Lessor as being complete and accurate to the best of Tenant's knowledge, subject to normal year end adjustments. In the case of any Officer's Certificate and related financial statements that are required under this subsection (a) and relate to any period on or prior to the date which is 120 days after April 20, 2001, Tenant may, to the extent necessary, qualify the same by stating that they remain subject to any adjustments required by "fresh-start accounting", provided and on the conditions that (i) as soon as reasonably practicable following the completion of such "fresh-start accounting" adjustments, but in any event within five (5) Business Days following such completion, Tenant shall deliver to Lessor a revised Officer's Certificate and related financial statements that comply with this subsection (a) and omit the aforesaid "fresh-start accounting" qualifications and (ii) Tenant shall at all times comply with all applicable securities and other Legal Requirements relative to the reporting and disclosure of Tenant's financial condition;
Financial Statements
 
(b) Within one hundred (100) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, (i) for Tenant, consolidated Financial Statements, in each case with accompanying notes and schedules, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and audited by a firm of independent certified public accountants of recognized standing selected by Tenant, which accountants shall have issued an audit report thereon; and (ii) an Officer's Certificate certifying to Lessor the amount of Patient Revenues for such Fiscal Year for each Facility, for all of the Facilities in the aggregate under this Lease and for all of the Facilities in the aggregate under all of the Master Leases, and attaching reasonably detailed documentation thereof;
 
(c) Within fifty (50) days after the close of each of the first three fiscal quarters, and within one hundred (100) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, the following information and data for each Facility, in each case in paper format or electronic computer format: (1) income statements that include, without limitation, a breakdown of Patient Revenues and other revenues itemized by payor type and a breakdown of operating expenses to the extent reasonably available under the then current facility operation reports, but including, at a minimum, itemization of Facility rental expense, overhead charges or management fees, bad debt expense and any material non-recurring charges; and (2) patient census by payor type;
 
(d) As soon as available but in no event later than sixty (60) days following the commencement of each Fiscal Year, annual budgets for the operation during such Fiscal Year of each Facility, of all Facilities in the aggregate under this Lease and of all Facilities in the aggregate under all of the Master Leases, and to the extent reasonably available, a breakdown of projected Patient Revenues and other revenues itemized by payor type and a breakdown of projected operating expenses itemized to reflect, at a minimum, Facility rental expense, overhead charges or management fees, bad debt expense and any non-recurring charges;
 
(e) Within one hundred (100) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, or otherwise upon request by Lessor in connection with a proposed sale or refinancing of a Facility or Facilities by Lessor, for Tenant and each Guarantor, as applicable, an Officer's Certificate certifying to Lessor and Lessor's designees (which certificate may be relied upon by Lessor and any prospective purchaser or mortgagee of any Leased Property) the following information:
 
(i) this Lease is unmodified and is in full force and effect (or that this Lease is in full force and effect as modified and setting forth the modifications);
 
(ii) the dates to which Rent has been paid;
 
(iii) all Facilities are in good standing with respect to all necessary federal, state and local licenses, permits and other Authorizations;
 
(iv) each Facility that participates in the Medicare program is in compliance with the terms of its Medicare Provider Agreement and in good standing with the Medicare program;
 
(v) each Facility that participates in the Medicaid program is in compliance with the terms of its Medicaid Provider Agreement and in good standing with the Medicaid program;
 
(vi) the current number of licensed beds at each Facility; and
 
(vii) Tenant and each applicable Guarantor is not in default in the performance of this Lease or its Guaranty, as applicable, or if an Event of Default exists, specifying the same in reasonable detail;
 
at the request of Lessor, together with complete and accurate copies (originals of which shall be made available for inspection upon request by Lessor) of all licenses, permits and other Authorizations necessary to operate the Facilities in accordance with all applicable laws;
 
(f) As soon as reasonably available, copies of any Forms 10K, 10Q and 8K and any other annual, quarterly, monthly or other reports, copies of all registration statements and any other public information which any Tenant or any of its Subsidiaries files with the Securities Exchange Commission or any other governmental authority;
 
(g) Promptly upon the furnishing thereof to the shareholders of any Tenant, copies of all statements, reports, notices and proxy statements so furnished;
 
(h) Such supplements to the foregoing documents and such other information and reports (including, without limitation non-financial information), as any Senior Lender, any Facility Mortgagee or any Superior Mortgagee may reasonably request, provided such supplements, and such information and reports, are consistent with the types of supplements, reports and information generally utilized by such institutions within the financing industry;
 
(i) (i) on a monthly basis during the Term, (x) a consolidated monthly cash flow report of Tenant and its Subsidiaries and (y) a consolidated monthly patient census report (reported separately for hospitals and nursing centers) for Tenant, (ii) all other information, reports, materials and certificates that are from time to time delivered, pursuant to the requirements of any loan documents that are from time to time binding upon Tenant or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, by Tenant or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to any of the Senior Lenders, or any of the holders of any of the Exit Facility Documents or any other loan documents evidencing or securing borrowed indebtedness of Tenant or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates, or any of their respective agents, representatives or consultants, with all such information, reports, materials and certificates to be delivered to Lessor at the same time and in the same manner as the same are delivered to any of the Senior Lenders, any of the aforesaid holders and/or any of their respective agents, representatives or consultants, (iii) on a monthly basis during the Term, a monthly consolidated survey deficiency summary report, with such report to be in substance (but not necessarily in form) consistent with the report dated October 2000 that was delivered to Lessor and listing each of the Master Lease Leased Properties and indicating for each Master Lease Leased Property whether any survey, citation or report alleging a deficiency that is material in relation to such Master Lease Leased Property (using the October 2000 report as a baseline) has been issued with respect thereto during the period covered by such report and, if so, setting forth the identity of the agency or authority that issued such citation or report, a description of the alleged material deficiency and the timetable or deadline for curing the same (and, promptly following receipt of a written request therefor from Lessor to Tenant, Tenant shall further deliver to Lessor any Facility-specific survey reports requested by Lessor), and (v) promptly following receipt of a written request therefor from Lessor to Tenant, copies of any
 
Facility-specific environmental, engineering or other reports or studies that are in Tenant's possession or control and so requested by Lessor;
 
(j) If Lessor is a Ventas Lessor, within fifty (50) days following the close of each fiscal quarter, a Senior Officer's Certificate setting forth whether any Event(s) of Default under and/or of this Lease or any other lease demising any of the Master Lease Leased Properties has occurred and is continuing (as described in ) and, if so, specifying the Master Lease Leased Property(ies) at which such Event(s) of Default has so occurred and is continuing; and
Section 16.1(m)
Section 16.1(q)
Section 16.10
 
(k) Within three (3) Business Days following Tenant's receipt thereof, true, correct and complete copies of all professional negligence, malpractice and/or general liability actuarial studies, reports and/or analyses prepared from time to time for or by Tenant or at Tenant's direction other than those prepared by its independent auditors;
 
(l) Within sixty (60) days after the close of each fiscal quarter, for any insurance company owned or controlled by Tenant (a ""), an unaudited balance sheet and statement of operations as of the close of each such period and the related unaudited statements of income, cash flows and stockholders equity for such period and for the year to date of each Captive Insurance Company, setting forth in each case in comparative form the corresponding figures for the previous year, all prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and all certified in an Officer's Certificate to Lessor as being complete and accurate to the best of Tenant's knowledge, subject to normal year end adjustments;
Captive Insurance Company
 
(m) Within one hundred eighty (180) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, for each Captive Insurance Company, a balance sheet and statement of operations as of the close of such Fiscal Year and the related statements of income, cash flows and stockholder's equity for such Fiscal Year, in each case with accompanying notes and schedules, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and audited by a firm of independent certified public accountants of recognized standing selected by Tenant, which accountants shall have issued an audit report thereon;
 
(n) A true, correct and complete copy of any amendment to the organizational documents of any Captive Insurance Company within five (5) Business Days following entry into any such amendment;
 
(o) Within sixty (60) days following the end of each quarter during the Term, reports, as of such quarter-end, (i) indicating the amount of the then current "total loss pick" set for professional negligence and malpractice claims against Tenant and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates and the then current breakdown of such "total loss pick" (x) between claims incurred and reported and claims incurred but not yet reported and (y) among claims incurred, whether or not reported, that are (1) insured by the Captive Insurance Company(ies), (2) insured by insurers other than a Captive Insurance Company, and (3) not insured by a Captive Insurance Company or another insurer, (ii) indicating the amount to be reserved by Tenant at the aforesaid then current "total loss pick" for claims, whether or not reported, that are uninsured or that are insured by the Captive Insurance Company(ies) and a reasonably detailed explanation of how such
 
reserved amount was calculated and determined, (iii) identifying the portion of the reserve amount referenced in subsection (ii) above that will be funded, and the portion of such reserve that will not be funded, to the Captive Insurance Company(ies) by Tenant, and (iv) confirming that the amount to be funded to the Captive Insurance Company(ies) by Tenant is being funded on budget or, if there is a shortfall in the funding of the amount to be funded, detailing Tenant's plan for funding such shortfall to the Captive Insurance Company(ies), and, in addition, in each monthly Officer's Certificate delivered by Tenant pursuant to subsection (a) above, Tenant shall include therein a certification that Tenant is recording general and professional liability costs, on a monthly basis, in a manner consistent with the most recent actuarial valuations;
 
(p) On or prior to the date which is one hundred (100) days following the end of each Fiscal Year, a report that allocates all professional negligence and malpractice liability expenses incurred by Tenant and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates during such preceding Fiscal Year to each Facility under this Lease, to each of the other healthcare facilities under the Master Leases and to all other healthcare-related facilities of Tenant and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates that are not leased by Tenant under the Master Leases and that explains the methodology of such allocation in reasonable detail;
 
(q) Within thirty (30) days following the end of each month during the Term, Medicaid Rate Variance Reports, as of such month-end, prepared by Tenant for the Facilities under this Lease, and the healthcare facilities under all of the Master Leases, that are skilled nursing facilities, which report shall be substantially in the form delivered by Tenant to Lessor on May 14, 2003 or another form reasonably acceptable to Lessor, and, within forty-five (45) days following the end of each month during the Term, the "Dennis Henson Medicaid Rate Report," or a substantially similar report reasonably acceptable to Lessor, each as of such month-end, providing a state by state evaluation and prediction of Medicaid rates;
 
(r) Within forty-five (45) days following the end of each month during the Term, operating reports, as of such month-end, for each Facility under this Lease, and for each healthcare facility under each of the Master Leases, and for all healthcare facilities under each of the Master Leases, and under all of the Master Leases, in the form delivered to Lessor on May 14, 2003 or another form reasonably acceptable to Lessor;
 
(s) Within thirty (30) days following the end of each month during the Term, a "QA Management Activity Report", as of such month-end, prepared by Tenant for each Facility under this Lease, and for each healthcare facility under each of the Master Leases, in the form delivered to Lessor on May 14, 2003 or another form reasonably acceptable to Lessor, and, relative thereto, promptly following Tenant's receipt of a written request therefor from Lessor, true, correct and complete copies of any survey deficiency reports and/or plans of correction relative to any of the aforesaid Facilities designated by Lessor;
 
(t) Within sixty (60) days after the commencement of each Fiscal Year, an annual capital expenditures budget for such Fiscal Year, relating only to the Leased Properties, in the form delivered to Lessor on May 14, 2003 or another form reasonably acceptable to Lessor and, within fifteen (15) days after any material amendment to such annual capital expenditures budget, a true, correct and complete copy of such amendment;
 
(u) Within forty-five (45) days following the end of each month during the Term, a capital expenditures report, as of such month-end, relative to each Facility under this Lease, and each healthcare facility under all of the Master Leases, in the form delivered to Lessor on May 14, 2003 or another form reasonably acceptable to Lessor, and, including with each such report, project level expenditure detail by Facility or healthcare facility, as applicable;
 
(v) Within thirty (30) days after the close of each of the first three fiscal quarters, and within thirty (30) days after the close of each Fiscal Year, a report, in form reasonably acceptable to Lessor, regarding changes in the number of licensed beds and so-called "banked beds", at each Facility, at all Facilities in the aggregate under this Lease and at all healthcare facilities in the aggregate under all of the Master Leases.
 
. Within five (5) days after Tenant receives notice or otherwise obtains knowledge of any of the following occurrences, Tenant shall give written notice thereof in the form of an Officer's Certificate to Lessor and any Facility Mortgagee(s) the name(s) and address(es) of which have been provided to Tenant, which notice shall set forth details of the occurrence referred to therein and shall state what action Tenant has taken, and proposes to take, with respect thereto:
Section 26.2
Furnishing Notice
 
(a) any written notice of termination or suspension of any Facility from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid program; and
 
(b) any written notice of non-renewal of any license or other Authorization affecting any of the Facilities or its operation (including copies thereof).
 
. On a quarterly basis, Tenant shall permit, and upon request by Lessor shall make appropriate arrangements for, Lessor and/or its representatives to discuss the affairs, operations, finances and accounts of Tenant and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates with, and be advised as to the same by, senior officers of Tenant (and such of Tenant's independent accountants and other financial advisors as would be relevant to the topic of the particular meeting), all as Lessor may deem appropriate for the purpose of verifying any report(s) delivered by Tenant to Lessor under this Lease or for otherwise ascertaining compliance with this Lease by Tenant or the business, operational or financial condition of Tenant and/or its Subsidiaries and Affiliates and/or any of their respective Facilities. Without limitation of the foregoing, from time to time promptly following receipt of written notice from Lessor to Tenant (and in any event within ten (10) Business Days of such receipt), Tenant shall permit, and shall make appropriate arrangements for, Lessor and/or its representatives or designees to discuss the business, operational and financial condition of specific Facility(ies) designated by Lessor with, and be advised as to the same by, appropriate personnel of Tenant and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates having operational and accounting responsibilities for the Facility(ies) so specified by Lessor and to review, and make abstracts from and copies of, the books, accounts and records of Tenant and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates relative to any such Facility(ies), in each case provided, and on the condition, that any such discussions or reviews, abstracting or copying shall not materially interfere with Tenant's business operations relative to any affected Facility(ies). Unless otherwise agreed in writing by Lessor and Tenant, all of the discussions, reviews, abstracting and copying referenced in this shall occur during normal business hours. Relative to the foregoing matters, (a)
Section 26.3
Quarterly Meetings; Facility Level Meetings and Reviews
Section 26.3
 
Tenant agrees that those officers and managerial-level employees of Tenant and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates as are reasonably designated by Lessor shall attend the above described quarterly and/or Facility level meetings and reviews, (b) each of the aforesaid quarterly meetings and reviews shall, unless otherwise agreed by Lessor and Tenant, occur on the first Tuesday that is more than fifteen (15) days following the earlier of the date of filing or the filing due date of the Form 10Q or 10K, as applicable, that Tenant is required to file following the close of the quarter-to-be-reviewed, and (c) the aforesaid Facility level meetings and reviews shall, unless otherwise agreed by Lessor and Tenant, occur simultaneously with the aforesaid quarterly meetings and reviews and, in addition, from time to time at other times designated by Lessor upon ten (10) Business Days written notice to Tenant.
 
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this , if and for so long as the lessor under this Lease is not a Ventas Lessor, Tenant (a) shall not be required under this Lease to provide to such non-Ventas Lessor Facility-specific information related to Facilities or Leased Properties which are not included in this Lease, (b) shall exclude from consolidated facility information that is required under of this Lease facility information which relates to Facilities or Leased Properties not included in this Lease, and (c) shall continue to be required to provide information relative to Tenant, as opposed to Leased Properties and Facilities, on the same basis as such information is provided to a Ventas Lessor.
Section 26.4
Non-Ventas Lessors
Article XXVI
Section 26.1
 
.Tenant agrees that Tenant's chief executive officer and chief financial officer shall be made available by Tenant, upon two (2) Business Days (five (5) Business Days, if an in-person meeting is required) prior verbal and electronic notice from Lessor, to hold meetings with, make presentations to and/or answer questions and inquiries by investment advisers, analysts, underwriters, bankers and other lenders, rating agencies and other persons and organizations designated by Lessor in connection with transactions conducted by Lessor from time to time. Tenant shall not be required to incur any out-of-pocket expenses (other than nominal expenses) in connection with any such request by Lessor.
Section 26.5
Additional Tenant Assistance
 
. All reports, statements and other materials delivered by or on behalf of Tenant to Lessor under this shall be delivered to Lessor in electronic format, if available.
Section 26.6
Electronic Format
Article XXVI
 
. If Tenant shall at any time begin to prepare new or additional reports, statements or other materials containing the same or similar information as is contained in any of the reports, statements or other materials that Tenant is required to deliver to Lessor by the terms of the other Sections of this , Tenant shall deliver such new or additional reports, statements or other materials to Lessor, promptly following Tenant's preparation of the same.
Section 26.7
Similar Reports
Article XXVI
 
 
. Tenant shall permit Lessor, any then current or prospective Superior Mortgagee or other lender to Lessor, any then current or prospective investment banker, mortgage broker or other professional engaged by Lessor, any prospective purchaser of any Leased Property or any interest in Lessor or any Affiliate of Lessor and/or, only
Section 27.1
Lessor's Right to Inspect
 
during any permitted exhibition period under below, any prospective lessee, and its and their respective authorized representatives, to enter upon and conduct a physical inspection of any Leased Property during usual business hours and, except in an emergency, upon not less than three (3) business days prior notice, subject to any security, health, safety or confidentiality requirements of any governmental agency or insurance requirement relating to the Leased Properties, or imposed by law or applicable regulations and provided that no such entry or inspection shall materially interfere with Tenant's business operations within the affected Leased Property(ies). Nothing contained in this shall limit or impair Lessor's right to enter upon and inspect the Leased Properties, or any of Lessor's other rights or remedies, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default by Tenant.
Section 40.4
Section 27.1
 
 
. No failure by Lessor or Tenant to insist upon the strict performance of any term hereof or to exercise any right, power or remedy consequent upon a breach thereof, and no acceptance of full or partial payment of Rent during the continuance of any such breach, shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any such term. To the extent permitted by law, no waiver of any breach shall affect or alter this Lease, which shall continue in full force and effect with respect to any other then existing or subsequent breach.
Section 28.1
No Waiver
 
 
 
 
. No surrender to Lessor of this Lease or of any Leased Property or any part of any thereof, or of any interest herein or therein, shall be valid or effective unless agreed to and accepted in writing by Lessor and no act by Lessor or any representative or agent of Lessor, other than such a written acceptance by Lessor, shall constitute an acceptance of any such surrender.
Section 30.1
Acceptance of Surrender
 
 
. There shall be no merger of this Lease or of the leasehold estate created thereby by reason of the fact that the same person, firm, corporation or other entity may acquire, own or hold, directly or indirectly, (a) this Lease or the leasehold estate created hereby or any interest in this Lease or such leasehold estate and (b) the fee estate in any Leased Property.
Section 31.1
No Merger of Title
 
 
. Lessor may, without the consent or approval of Tenant, sell, transfer, assign, convey or otherwise dispose of any or all of the Leased Properties. If Lessor or any successor owner of any Leased Property shall sell, transfer, assign, convey or otherwise dispose of any Leased Property in accordance with the terms hereof other than as security for a debt, and the purchaser, grantee, assignee or transferee of the Leased Property shall expressly assume all obligations of Lessor hereunder with respect to such Leased Property
Section 32.1
Conveyance by Lessor
 
arising or accruing from and after the date of such sale, conveyance, transfer, assignment or other disposition and shall be reasonably capable of performing the obligations of Lessor hereunder, Lessor or such successor owner, as the case may be, shall thereupon be released from all future liabilities and obligations of Lessor under this Lease with respect to such Leased Property arising or accruing from and after the date of such sale, conveyance, transfer, assignment or other disposition as to such Leased Property and all such future liabilities and obligations with respect to such Leased Property shall thereupon be binding upon such purchaser, grantee, assignee or transferee. Lessor agrees to deliver to Tenant and any Leasehold Mortgagee, promptly following the consummation of any such sale, conveyance, transfer, assignment or other disposition (other than as security for a debt), written notice of such sale, conveyance, transfer, assignment or other disposition and, if applicable, a copy of the aforesaid assumption agreement. In the event of any such sale, transfer, assignment, conveyance or other disposition (other than as security for a debt) of less than all of the Leased Properties, the provisions of hereof shall apply.
Section 40.15
 
 
. So long as Tenant shall pay all Rent as the same becomes due and shall fully comply with all of the terms of this Lease and fully perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder, Tenant shall peaceably and quietly have, hold and enjoy each Leased Property for the Term hereof, free of any claim or other action by Lessor or anyone claiming by, through or under Lessor, but subject to all Permitted Encumbrances, including, without limitation, liens and encumbrances of record as of the date hereof or otherwise permitted to be created by Lessor hereunder, liens as to the obligations of Lessor that are either not yet due or which are being contested in good faith and by proper proceedings, and liens hereafter consented to by Tenant. No failure by Lessor to comply with the foregoing covenant shall give Tenant any right to cancel or terminate this Lease or abate, reduce or make a deduction from or offset against the Rent or any other sum payable under this Lease, or to fail to perform any other obligation of Tenant hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant shall have the right, by separate and independent action, to pursue any claim it may have against Lessor as a result of a breach by Lessor of the covenant of quiet enjoyment contained in this Section.
Section 33.1
Quiet Enjoyment
 
 
. All notices, demands, requests, consents, approvals and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and delivered or mailed (by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested or reputable nationally recognized overnight courier service and postage prepaid), addressed to the respective parties, as follows:
Section 34.1
Notices
 
 
Kindred Healthcare, Inc.
Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc.
680 South 4th Avenue
Louisville, Kentucky 40202-2612
Attention: Chief Financial Officer
 
with copies to:
 
Kindred Healthcare, Inc.
Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc.
680 South 4th Avenue
Louisville, Kentucky 40202-2612
Attention: General Counsel
 
and
 
James Ely, III
J.P. Morgan Chase Bank
270 Park Avenue, 4th Floor
New York, New York 10017
 
 
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership
10350 Ormsby Park Place
Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
Attention: Lease Administration
 
with a copy to:
 
Ventas, Inc.
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership
10350 Ormsby Park Place
Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
Attention: General Counsel
 
or to such other address as either party may hereunder designate, and shall be effective upon receipt.
 
 
. In the event that it becomes necessary to determine the Fair Market Rental of the Leased Properties or any thereof or the allocation of Base Rent among the Leased Properties or any thereof, or the Transferred Property Percentages applicable to the Leased Properties or any thereof, to be contained in hereto or the Fair Market Value or Fair Market Value Purchase Price of any property, in each case for any purpose of this Lease, and the parties cannot agree amongst themselves on such values, allocations or percentages, the procedures of this shall apply.
Section 35.1
Appraisals
Exhibit C
Article XXXV
 
. The party required or permitted to request an appraisal or other determination under this shall, within the applicable time period, if any, specified in this Lease, give written notice (an "Appraisal Notice") to the other party, which Appraisal Notice shall state the requesting party's desire for an appraisal or other
Section 35.2
Appointment of Appraisers
Article XXXV
 
determination under this , and identify which matters are to be appraised or determined (e.g., Fair Market Rental of the Leased Properties, and creation of an amended hereto, pursuant to hereof). Within thirty (30) days after receipt of any such Appraisal Notice by the party to which such Appraisal Notice is directed, each party shall, by written notice to the other party, appoint an appraiser meeting the qualifications set forth below selected by such party to act as appraiser on its behalf. If either party fails so to appoint an appraiser within the aforesaid thirty (30) day period, the appraiser selected by the other party shall act as the "Final Appraiser" hereinafter described. If both parties appoint an appraiser as aforesaid in a timely manner, within ten (10) days after such two appraisers are appointed, such two appraisers shall meet and agree upon a third appraiser meeting the qualifications set forth below (herein, the ""). The two appraisers selected by the parties shall, promptly following their agreement upon a Final Appraiser, provide written notice of the identity of the aforesaid Final Appraiser to each of Lessor and Tenant. Such appointment shall be binding on the parties. If the two appraisers selected by the parties are unable to agree upon a Final Appraiser within the aforesaid ten (10) day period, then either party may request that the American Arbitration Association or any successor organization thereto appoint a Final Appraiser meeting the qualifications set forth below within twenty (20) days of such request, and both parties shall be bound by any appointment so made within such twenty (20) day period. If no such Final Appraiser shall have been appointed in such manner within such twenty (20) day period or within ninety (90) days after issuance of the original Appraisal Notice, either Lessor or Tenant may apply to any court having jurisdiction to have such appointment made by such court.
Article XXXV
Exhibit C
Section 3.2
Final Appraiser
 
. Each of the two appraisers selected by the parties, and the Final Appraiser, must (a) be a member of the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers (or any successor organization thereto) and/or a person employed by an accounting firm that, at the time of such appointment, is one of the five (5) largest public accounting firms in the United States and (b) have not less than five (5) years experience, and substantial expertise, in valuing hospitals and nursing centers and/or determining the fair market rental value of hospitals and nursing centers.
Section 35.3
Qualifications of Appraisers
 
. The Final Appraiser appointed in accordance with the foregoing procedures shall complete the appraisals, and make any other determinations, submitted to him or her in accordance with the terms of this Lease within sixty (60) days after his or her appointment and shall notify each of Lessor and Tenant of his or her appraisals and other determinations. In performing such appraisals, and making such other determinations, the Final Appraiser shall make the assumptions, and follow any other directives or instructions, contained in this Lease relative to the subject matter of the Final Appraiser's appointment, and, without limitation of the foregoing, in the case of any appraisal of Fair Market Rental applicable to the Leased Properties or any thereof or any allocation of Base Rent among the Leased Properties or any thereof (and any related amendment of hereto and allocation of Transferred Property Percentages among the Leased Properties or any thereof), the Final Appraiser shall not allocate an amount of Base Rent to any particular Leased Property that would result in this Lease, as it applies to such Leased Property, being treated as a capital lease, rather than an operating lease, under generally accepted accounting principles or under the applicable rules of the Financial Accounting Standards Board and, in making determinations of the amount of Base Rent that will be allocated to particular Leased Properties for purposes of , shall consider the effect of his or her allocation of Base Rent to a particular Leased Property upon
Section 35.4
Appraisal Process
Exhibit C
Exhibit C
 
Tenant's ability to obtain reimbursements at such Facility under third party payor programs, but in all events without increasing or decreasing the aggregate amount of Base Rent payable under this Lease with respect to the Leased Properties as a whole.
 
. The provisions of this , and related provisions of this Lease, providing for determination of certain values, allocations, percentages and other matters by the Final Appraiser shall be specifically enforceable to the extent such remedy is available under applicable law, and any determination hereunder shall be final and binding upon the parties except as otherwise provided by applicable law.
Section 35.5
Binding Nature
Article XXXV
 
. Lessor and Tenant shall each pay the fees and expenses of the appraiser appointed by it, and each shall pay one-half of the fees and expenses of the Final Appraiser, and one-half of all other costs and expenses, incurred in connection with each appraisal, , , that, notwithstanding the foregoing, Lessor, not Tenant, shall pay the fees and expenses of the appraisers appointed by Lessor and Tenant, and of the Final Appraiser, in the case of any appraisal initiated under hereof.
Section 35.6
Costs
provided
however
Section 3.2
 
 
.
Section 36.1
General REIT Provisions
 
Tenant understands that, in order for Ventas, Inc., Lessor's Affiliate, to qualify as a real estate investment trust (""), the following requirements (the "") must be satisfied:
Section 36.1.1
REIT
REIT Requirements
 
(i) Rent allocable for purposes of Section 856 of the Code to Lessor's personal property that is leased to Tenant under a lease at the beginning and end of a calendar year cannot exceed 15% of the total Rent under such lease.
 
(ii) Tenant cannot sublet the property that is leased to it by Lessor, or enter into any similar arrangement, on any basis such that the rental or other amounts paid by the sublessee thereunder would be based, in whole or in part, on either (i) the net income or profits derived by the business activities of the sublessee or (ii) any other formula such that any portion of the rent paid by Tenant to Lessor would fail to qualify as "rents from real property" within the meaning of Section 856(d) of the Code.
 
(iii) Tenant cannot transfer or assign Tenant's rights under the Lease to, or sublease the property leased to it by Lessor to, or enter into any similar arrangement with, any person in which Lessor has provided written notice to Tenant that it owns, directly or indirectly, a 10% or more interest, within the meaning of Section 856(d)(2)(B) of the Code.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Lease to the contrary, Tenant agrees, and agrees to use reasonable efforts to cause its Affiliates, to cooperate in good faith with Lessor to ensure that the REIT Requirements are satisfied, including, but not limited to, providing Lessor with information about the ownership of Tenant, and its Affiliates to the extent that such information is reasonably available. Tenant agrees, and agrees to use reasonable efforts to cause its Affiliates, upon request by Lessor to take reasonable action necessary to
Section 36.1.2
 
ensure compliance with the REIT Requirements. Immediately after becoming aware that the REIT Requirements are not, or will not be, satisfied, Tenant shall notify, or use reasonable efforts to cause its Affiliates to notify, Lessor of such noncompliance.
 
Lessor agrees to reimburse Tenant for the reasonable amount of any out of pocket expenses incurred by Tenant or its Affiliates in satisfying the requirements of this .
Section 36.1.2
 
Intentionally Omitted
Section 36.1.3
 
 
Intentionally Omitted.
Section 37.1
 
. Effective on not less than ninety (90) days prior written notice given at any time within one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the expiration of the Term, but not later than ninety (90) days prior to such expiration, or such shorter notice as shall be appropriate if this Lease is terminated in whole or in part or Tenant is dispossessed of any of the Leased Properties prior to the expiration of the Term, subject to the rights of any Leasehold Mortgagee in respect of Tenant's Personal Property, Lessor or its designee shall have the option to purchase all (but not less than all) of Tenant's Personal Property located at the Leased Property(ies) in question, if any, at any expiration or termination of the Term, for a purchase price equal to the unamortized portion of the original cost based upon the economic useful life, as defined by the American Hospital Guide (or, if such guide ceases to be published by the American Hospital Association, a substitute guide or other economic useful life reference book mutually agreed upon by Lessor and Tenant, each acting reasonably), subject to, and with appropriate price adjustments for, all equipment leases, conditional sale contracts, UCC-1 financing statements (including those financing statements filed in connection with the Leasehold Mortgages) and other encumbrances to which such Personal Property is subject. Promptly following demand by Lessor (but in any event within thirty (30) days following such demand), Tenant shall deliver to Lessor a computation and statement, in form, content and detail reasonably satisfactory to Lessor, of the purchase price described above as of the date of such expiration, termination or dispossession, as the case may be, for all of Tenant's Personal Property located at the Leased Property(ies) in question.
Section 37.2
Lessor's Option to Purchase the Tenant's Personal Property
 
 
. Without the consent of Tenant, Lessor may, subject to the terms and conditions set forth below in this , from time to time, directly or indirectly, create or otherwise cause to exist any lien, encumbrance or title retention agreement ("") upon any Leased Property or any portion thereof or interest therein, whether to secure any borrowing or other means of financing or refinancing. Any lender, which takes an interest in the applicable Leased Property pursuant to this , (a) shall agree to give Tenant the same notice, if any, given to Lessor of any default or acceleration of any obligation underlying any such mortgage or any sale in foreclosure under such mortgage, (b) shall agree to permit Tenant to cure any such default on Lessor's behalf within any applicable cure period, and Tenant shall be reimbursed by Lessor for any and all out-of-pocket costs incurred to effect any such cure (including reasonable attorneys' fees), (c) shall agree to permit
Section 38.1
Lessor May Grant Liens
Section 38.1
Encumbrance
Article XXXVIII
 
Tenant to appear by its representative and to bid at any sale in foreclosure made with respect to any such mortgage and (d) shall agree not to disturb Tenant's possession so long as Tenant is not in default in performing its obligations hereunder.
 
 
. Tenant hereby agrees to hold harmless Lessor, any successors to Lessor's interest in this Lease and in any Leased Property, and Lessor's and such successors' directors, officers, partners, members, employees and agents from and against any losses, claims, damages (including consequential damages), penalties, fines, liabilities (including strict liability), costs (including cleanup and recovery costs), and expenses (including expenses of litigation and reasonable attorneys' fees) incurred by Lessor or any other indemnitee or assessed against the Leased Property by virtue of any claim or lien by any governmental or quasi-governmental unit, body, or agency, or any third party, for cleanup costs or other costs pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, all as amended from time to time, and all state laws and federal and state regulations pursuant to the foregoing (collectively ""). Tenant's indemnity shall survive the expiration or any termination of this Lease. , , Tenant shall have no indemnity obligation with respect to (i) Hazardous Materials first introduced to the Leased Property subsequent to the date that Tenant's occupancy of the applicable Leased Property shall have fully terminated or (ii) Hazardous Materials first introduced to the Leased Property prior to April 30, 1998, except to the extent arising from any deterioration on or after April 30, 1998 in any condition existing prior to the April 30, 1998. "" means any substance the presence of which poses a hazard to the health or safety of persons on or about the Leased Property or which requires removal or remediation under any Environmental Law, including without limitation, any substance which is toxic, explosive, flammable, radioactive, or otherwise hazardous or is included within the meaning of "hazardous substance", "hazardous waste", "toxic substance", or "pollutant" as defined in any Environmental Law. At any time during the Term of this Lease, Lessor may require one or more environmental audits of the Leased Properties, in such form, scope and substance as specified by Lessor, at Tenant's expense. Tenant shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of an invoice from Lessor, reimburse Lessor for all costs and expenses incurred in reviewing any environmental audit, including without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs.
Section 39.1
Environmental Indemnity
Environmental Laws
Provided
however
Hazardous Materials
 
 
. Anything contained in this Lease to the contrary notwithstanding, all claims against, and liabilities of, Tenant or Lessor arising prior to any date of termination or expiration of this Lease shall survive such termination or expiration. If any term or provision of this Lease or any application hereof shall be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Lease and any other application of such term or provision shall not be affected thereby. If any late charges provided for in any provision of this Lease are based upon a rate in excess of the maximum rate permitted by applicable law, the parties agree that such charges shall be fixed at the maximum permissible rate. Neither this Lease nor any provision hereof may be changed, waived, discharged or terminated except by an instrument in writing and in recordable form signed by Lessor and Tenant. All the terms and provisions of this Lease shall be binding
Section 40.1
Miscellaneous
 
upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. The headings in this Lease are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
 
. Tenant specifically agrees to look solely to Lessor's and any successor owner's interest in the Leased Properties for recovery of any judgment from Lessor, it being specifically agreed that neither Lessor, any such successor owner, nor any officer, director, employee, lender, agent or Affiliate of Lessor or any such successor owner shall ever be personally liable for any such judgment or for the payment of any monetary obligation to Tenant. Tenant shall have no recourse against any other property or assets of Lessor or any successor owner, or against any property or assets of any officer, director, shareholder, partner, lender, agent or Affiliate of Lessor or any successor owner. The provision contained in the foregoing sentence is not intended to, and shall not, limit any right that Tenant might otherwise have to obtain injunctive relief against Lessor or Lessor's successors in interest, or any action not involving the personal liability of Lessor (original or successor). Furthermore, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, in no event shall Lessor (original or successor) ever be liable to Tenant for any special, indirect or consequential damages suffered by Tenant from whatever cause.
Section 40.2
Non-Recourse
 
.
Section 40.3
Transition of Operations
 
(a) Upon the expiration or earlier termination of the Term as to any Leased Property, or any dispossession of Tenant as to any Leased Property, Tenant shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, transfer to Lessor or Lessor's designee and/or cooperate in all reasonable respects with Lessor or Lessor's designee to enable Lessor or Lessor's designee to apply for and obtain all licenses, operating permits, provider agreements, provider status, certificates of need, certificates of exemption, approvals, waivers, variances and other governmental, quasi-governmental and private authorizations necessary for the operation of the Leased Property as to which the Term is expired or terminated or as to which Tenant has been dispossessed and the Facilities located thereon, or any of them, for their respective Primary Intended Uses (collectively ""); that the costs and expenses of any such transfer or obtaining of Authorizations shall be paid by Lessor or Lessor's designee unless such termination or dispossession results from an Event of Default, in which event the costs and expenses of any such transfer or obtaining of Authorizations shall be paid by Tenant. It is the express intention of the parties that at the expiration or earlier termination of the Term as to any Leased Property, and upon any dispossession of Tenant in connection with any Event of Default as to any Leased Property, any and all Authorizations needed to operate each Leased Property as to which the Term is expired or terminated, or as to which Tenant has been dispossessed, for its Primary Intended Use shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, remain with such Leased Property and shall be transferred into the name of Lessor or Lessor's designee, regardless of whether such Authorization is in the name of Tenant at any time during the Term. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Tenant shall furnish to Lessor or its designee complete and accurate documents and information in Tenant's possession, custody or control necessary or reasonably requested by Lessor or its designee in connection with any such transfer or the completion and processing of any applications for Authorizations.
Authorizations
provided
 
(b) In anticipation of the expiration of this Lease as to any Leased Property, upon the earlier termination of this Lease as to any Leased Property, and/or upon any dispossession of Tenant in connection with any Event of Default as to any Leased Property, Tenant shall cooperate with Lessor in all reasonable respects to facilitate and effectuate the orderly transfer of operations at the affected Facility(ies) as a going concern; , , that, unless such termination or dispossession results from an Event of Default by Tenant, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this subsection (b), Tenant shall not be required to incur any out-of-pocket operating losses or costs in so cooperating. Such cooperation shall include, without limitation: (i) furnishing to Lessor or any prospective successor operator of a Facility designated by Lessor complete and accurate books, records, files, documents and information in Tenant's possession, custody or control necessary or reasonably requested by Lessor or its designee in connection with the assessment and/or assumption of the operations of such Facility(ies); (ii) facilitating the evaluation and employment by Lessor or its designee of such employees of Tenant as Lessor or its designee may elect to evaluate or employ, including, without limitation, to the extent permitted by law, affording Lessor or its designee access to all relevant personnel files, records, documents and information in Tenant's possession, custody or control; and (iii) assigning to Lessor or its designee such assignable patient, vendor, service provider and other contracts relating to the Facility(ies) in question as Lessor or its designee may request; , , that Tenant's cooperation obligation shall not include undertaking primary responsibility for such transfer of operations.
provided
however
provided
however
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Lease, Tenant shall not, prior to the ninetieth (90th) day preceding the expiration of this Lease as to any Leased Property, commence to wind up and terminate the operations of the Facility operated thereon by relocating the patients or occupants thereof to other health care facilities (a ""). If Lessor has not notified Tenant in writing prior to the ninetieth (90th) day preceding the expiration of this Lease as to a Leased Property and the Facility thereon that Lessor has procured a successor operator for such Facility who has submitted applications for the Authorizations required to assume the operations of such Facility (a ""), then Tenant may commence the Facility Termination and, upon the expiration of this Lease as to such Leased Property and Facility, Tenant shall vacate such Leased Property and surrender possession thereof to Lessor in accordance with all of the applicable requirements of this Lease. If, prior to the ninetieth (90th) day preceding the expiration of this Lease as to a Leased Property and the Facility thereon, Lessor notifies Tenant in writing that Lessor has procured a Qualified Successor for such Facility, Tenant shall not commence the Facility Termination (any notice of the nature referenced in this sentence is herein referred to as a ""). In such event, Tenant shall thereafter operate such Facility in accordance with all of the requirements of this Lease until the earliest to occur of (i) the date (on or after the expiration of this Lease as to such Leased Property and Facility) on which such Qualified Successor will assume the operation of such Facility, as specified in a written notice from Lessor to Tenant given not less than thirty (30) days prior to the date of such assumption, (ii) the date that is ninety (90) days after the expiration of this Lease as to such Leased Property and Facility, and (iii) the date (on or after the expiration of this Lease as to such Leased Property and Facility) which is ninety (90) days after Tenant receives written notice from Lessor that, notwithstanding the foregoing, Tenant may commence the Facility Termination, on which earliest date, Tenant shall vacate the Leased Property in question and surrender possession thereof to Lessor in accordance with all of the applicable requirements of this Lease. In the event Lessor sends Tenant a Section 40.3 Notice
Facility Termination
Qualified Successor
Section 40.3 Notice
 
and, as a result thereof, Tenant operates a Facility beyond the aforesaid expiration date applicable thereto, then, from and after the expiration of this Lease as to such Facility and until the earliest to occur of the dates described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above (the ""), Lessor shall reimburse Tenant for any operating deficits of such Facility that Tenant may be required to fund out-of-pocket on account of operating losses and expenses of such Facility incurred by Tenant with respect to the Reimbursement Period. Any such reimbursement shall be due from Lessor to Tenant within thirty (30) days after written request by Tenant, provided that Tenant shall furnish such documentation of such operating deficits, losses and expenses as Lessor may reasonably request. For purposes of determining the amount of any operating deficits, or operating losses and expenses, so incurred by Tenant with respect to the Reimbursement Period, Lessor and Tenant agree that (1) there shall be included therein, without limitation, (x) Rent, which shall continue to be due and payable or accrue, as the case may be, at the same rates as are in effect prior to the expiration of the Term, and (y) any increase in employee severance, and all costs and liabilities, that may be incurred by Tenant in connection with Tenant's employees' employment by virtue of Tenant's delayed compliance with the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, or any similar State law, due to Tenant's cooperation and other obligations under this subsection (c), and (2) Tenant shall serve upon its employees any notice required under the Worker Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, or any similar State law, as soon as reasonably practicable after it becomes clear when the Reimbursement Period will end, whether due to Tenant's receipt of a written notice under subsection (i) or (iii) above or due to the terms of subsection (ii) above which provides that, in all events, the Reimbursement Period shall end no later than the date referenced in such subsection (ii). In lieu of the aforesaid reimbursement from Lessor, Tenant may instead elect to continue to be responsible for payment of all costs and expenses of continuing to comply with this Lease as to such Facility during the Reimbursement Period, provided and on the condition that Tenant provides written notice to Lessor of such election within fifteen (15) days after Tenant's receipt of Lessor's Section 40.3 Notice. In the event Tenant so elects to forego its aforesaid reimbursement from Lessor, during the Reimbursement Period, Base Rent allocable to such Facility shall be payable in the manner set forth in of this Lease, but with Base Rent allocable to such Facility being reduced to one-half () of the amount thereof that was allocable to such Facility as of the expiration of the Term as to such Facility. In the event Lessor sends Tenant a Section 40.3 Notice and, as a result thereof, Tenant operates a Facility beyond the expiration date applicable thereto, any Facility Default that occurs with respect to such Facility and Leased Property during the Reimbursement Period shall in no event give rise to any right in favor of Lessor to exercise any rights or remedies under hereof with respect to any other Facility or Leased Property.
Reimbursement Period
Section 3.1
Article XVI
 
. Lessor and Lessor's agent shall have the right to enter the applicable Leased Property at all reasonable times for the purpose of exhibiting the Leased Property to others (i) if Tenant has not exercised its right with respect to any applicable Extended Term within the time period set forth in this Lease, or (ii) during the last eighteen (18) months of the Term (if all available options for Extended Terms have previously been exercised).
Section 40.4
Right to Enter
 
. This Lease contains the entire agreement between Lessor and Tenant with respect to the subject matter hereof. No representations, warranties or agreements have been made by Lessor except as set forth in this Lease.
Section 40.5
Integration
 
. If any term or provision of this Lease is held or deemed by Lessor to be invalid or unenforceable, such term or provision shall be modified as slightly as possible so as to render it valid and enforceable; if such term or provision, as modified, shall be held or deemed invalid or unenforceable, such holding shall not affect the remainder of this Lease and same shall remain in full force and effect, unless such holding substantially deprives Tenant of the use of the Leased Property(ies) or Lessor of the rents herein reserved, in which event this Lease shall forthwith terminate as if by expiration of the Term.
Section 40.6
Severability
 
.
Section 40.7
Subject to Law
 
(a) All rights, powers and remedies provided herein may be exercised only to the extent that the exercise thereof, including those which do not require the giving of notice, does not violate any applicable law, and are intended to be limited to the extent necessary so that they will not render this Lease invalid or unenforceable under any applicable law. All waivers, consents, confessions and releases provided for in this Lease are effective only to the extent permitted by applicable law.
 
(b) This Lease was negotiated in the State of New York, which State the parties agree has a substantial relationship to the parties and to the underlying transaction embodied hereby. In all respects, the law of the State of New York shall govern the validity of and enforceability of the obligations of the parties set forth herein, but all provisions hereof relating to the creation of the leasehold estate and remedies set forth in shall be governed by the laws of the State in which each applicable Leased Property that is the subject of dispute is located and the parties hereto will submit to jurisdiction and the laying of venue for any suit on this Lease in the Commonwealth of Kentucky.
Article XVI
 
. No waiver of any condition or covenant herein contained, or of any breach of any such condition or covenant, shall be held or taken to be a waiver of any subsequent breach of such covenant or condition, or to permit or excuse its continuance or any future breach thereof or of any condition or covenant herein construed as a waiver of such default, or of Lessor's right to terminate this Lease or exercise any other remedy granted herein on account of such existing default.
Section 40.8
Waivers
 
. This Lease shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, successors, personal representatives, and permitted assigns of Lessor and Tenant.
Section 40.9
Binding Character
 
. This Lease may be only be modified by a writing signed by both Lessor and Tenant.
Section 40.10
Modification
 
. No delay or omission by either party hereto to exercise any right or power accruing upon any noncompliance or default by the other party with respect to any of the terms hereof shall impair any such right or power or be construed to be a waiver thereof.
Section 40.11
Forbearance
 
. In the event of any sublease of any Leased Property(ies) or any portion thereof to an Affiliate of any Tenant pursuant to the terms of this Lease, regardless of whether Lessor's prior consent is required therefor, such subtenant shall execute and deliver a Lease Guaranty relative to the Leased Property(ies) or portion thereof subleased by it. Tenant
Section 40.12
Lease Guaranty
 
represents and warrants to Lessor that attached hereto and made a part hereof reflects the identities of all Affiliates of any Tenant from whom a Lease Guaranty is required hereunder as of the Effective Date and the respective Leased Properties (or parts thereof) subleased by each of such Affiliates. Tenant agrees, from time to time within fifteen (15) days after receipt of a written request therefor from Lessor, to deliver to Lessor an Officer's Certificate which updates all of the information contained in .
Schedule 40.12
Schedule 40.12
 
Intentionally omitted.
Section 40.13
 
.
Section 40.14
Confidentiality
 
(a) Each of Lessor and Tenant agrees that, except as otherwise explicitly provided in this , all Information (as defined below) provided by Lessor to Tenant and by Tenant to Lessor (the party providing such Information being referred to as "" and the party receiving the Information being referred to as "") will be kept confidential and will not, without Disclosing Party's prior written consent, be disclosed by Recipient, in whole or in part, to any person, in any manner whatsoever.
Section 40.14
Disclosing Party
Recipient
 
(b) Recipient may disclose Information:
 
(i) to those of Recipient's officers, directors and employees who are informed by Recipient of the confidential nature of the Information and who agree, for Disclosing Party's benefit, to act in accordance with the terms and conditions of this ; Recipient will be responsible for any breach of this by such persons.
Section 40.14
Section 40.14
 
(ii) in the case where Lessor is the Recipient
 
(A) to the extent the Information is both (x) of a financial, operating, regulatory, business or similar nature, and (y) has been aggregated to relate to any or all of the Master Leases, a jurisdiction or jurisdictions (such as a state or region), a class or classes of asset (e.g. nursing facilities or hospitals) or any other category, in each case so long as such disclosure is not on a per Leased Property basis; or
 
(B) if Lessor is a Ventas Lessor, to the extent the Information relates to a particular Master Lease Leased Property(ies), and either
 
(w) is provided to Facility Mortgagees, prospective Facility Mortgagees, Superior Lessors, prospective Superior Lessors, purchasers, prospective purchasers, tenants or prospective tenants of such Master Lease Leased Property(ies); provided that any such party listed in this clause (w) who receives such Information is informed by Lessor or the Ventas Lessor(s) of the applicable Master Lease Leased Property(ies) of the confidential nature of the Information and agrees with Lessor or the Ventas Lessor(s) of the applicable Master Lease Leased Property(ies) to keep such Information confidential pursuant to a standard confidentiality agreement; and provided further that such Information may be disclosed to tenants or prospective tenants only if either (i) Tenant has not, at least
 
seventeen (17) months prior to the then current Term applicable to the related Renewal Group, given to the Ventas Lessor of the applicable Master Lease Leased Property written notice of Tenant's intention to renew the applicable lease with respect to the Master Lease Leased Properties within such Renewal Group, or (ii) an Event of Default has occurred under the applicable lease of such Master Lease Leased Property(ies); or
 
(x) is disclosed in connection with or following a sale, closure, material casualty, default or prospective default with respect to such Master Lease Leased Property; or
 
(y) relates to the location or size of, or the number of licensed beds at, such Master Lease Leased Property or the rent for such Master Lease Leased Property; or
 
(z) is of the type customarily disclosed by a public healthcare real estate investment trust; or
 
(C) if Lessor is not a Ventas Lessor, to the extent the Information relates to a particular Leased Property(ies), and either
 
(w) is provided to Facility Mortgagees, prospective Facility Mortgagees, Superior Lessors, prospective Superior Lessors, purchasers, prospective purchasers, tenants or prospective tenants of such Leased Property(ies); provided that any such party listed in this clause (w) who receives such Information is informed by Lessor of the confidential nature of the Information and agrees with Lessor to keep such Information confidential pursuant to a standard confidentiality agreement; and provided further that such Information may be disclosed to tenants or prospective tenants only if either (i) Tenant has not, at least seventeen (17) months prior to the then current Term applicable to the related Renewal Group, given to Lessor written notice of Tenant's intention to renew this Lease with respect to the Leased Properties within such Renewal Group, or (ii) an Event of Default has occurred under the Lease of such Leased Property(ies); or
 
(x) is disclosed in connection with or following a sale, closure, material casualty, default or prospective default with respect to such Leased Property; or
 
(y) relates to the location or size of, or the number of licensed beds at, such Leased Property or the rent for such Leased Property; or
 
(z) is of the type customarily disclosed by a public healthcare real estate investment trust.
 
(iii) to the extent Recipient reasonably determines that disclosure of the Information is required by any Legal Requirement applicable to Recipient or any applicable rule, regulation, or requirement of any securities exchange on which the Recipient's securities are listed or admitted for trading (a "") pursuant to the procedures set forth in below.
Disclosure Law
Section 40.14(h)
 
(iv) in connection with any proceeding in which Recipient is attempting to protect or enforce any rights and/or remedies in connection with this Lease or any of the other Combined Leases, but only to the extent necessary to protect or enforce such rights and/or remedies.
 
(v) to any person in a confidential relationship with the Recipient, including Recipient's auditors, advisors, consultants, lawyers, and others who agree with Recipient to be bound by a standard confidentiality agreement, such as lenders, prospective lenders, purchasers, potential purchasers, tenants and prospective tenants; provided, however, that Recipient shall not be liable to Disclosing Party for any breach by such persons of such confidential relationship or confidentiality arrangements; provided further, however, that Recipient shall assign to Disclosing Party (or enforce on Disclosing Party's behalf and at Disclosing Party's cost) the Recipient's rights under such confidentiality agreement or obligations.
 
(vi) to the extent legally compelled to disclose any of the Information pursuant to a subpoena or other legal process having the force of law. Recipient will provide Disclosing Party with prompt notice so that Disclosing Party or any of its representatives may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy. In the event that such protective order or other remedy is not obtained, Recipient will furnish only that portion of the Information which Recipient has been advised is legally required and Recipient will exercise its reasonable efforts to attempt to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded the Information so to be furnished. In any event, Recipient will cooperate with (and not oppose) any reasonable action by Disclosing Party to obtain an appropriate protective order or other reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded such Information.
 
(vii) in the case where Lessor is the Recipient, to the extent Lessor reasonably determines that the Information is required under Disclosure Law applicable to Recipient to be disclosed in connection with a distribution (a "") by Recipient (or any of its transferees) to Recipient's stockholders of the common stock of Tenant received by VRLP upon consummation of Tenant's bankruptcy case (the "") pursuant to the procedures set forth in below; provided; however, that in connection with a Ventas Stockholder Distribution pursuant to a registration statement prepared by Tenant under the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement by and among Tenant, VRLP and certain other parties thereto (the ""), no such disclosure shall be permitted during either (A) a Shelf Suspension pursuant to Section 3 of the Registration Rights Agreement, or (B) a "black-out period" applicable to "Holders" pursuant to Section 5 of the Registration Rights Agreement.
Ventas Stockholder Distribution
Tenant Shares
Section 40.14(h)
Registration Rights Agreement
 
(viii) in the case where Lessor is the Recipient, pursuant to the procedures set forth in below, to the extent Lessor reasonably determines that the Information is required to be disclosed under Disclosure Law applicable to Recipient in connection with a sale by Recipient of Tenant Shares and notice of such proposed disclosure occurs pursuant to a Disclosure Notice received by Tenant no later than 15 Business Days after (A) the filing by Tenant of a report on Form 8-K, 10-Q or 10-K, (B) the termination of a Shelf Suspension pursuant to Section 3 of the Registration Rights Agreement, (C) the termination of a "black-out period" applicable to "Holders" pursuant to Section 5 of the Registration Rights Agreement, or (D) Tenant shall have provided Ventas, Inc. or VRLP with written notice of any "Accretive Transaction" as defined in and in accordance with the requirements of Article Twelfth of Tenant's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 40.14(h)
 
(c) Information means (i) all and any data, reports, including any survey deficiency reports or summaries thereof, forecasts, records, agreements and other information (whether written, magnetic, digital or in any other form) furnished after April 20, 2001 by Disclosing Party or by any of its representatives or advisors to Recipient that is both (x) material and proprietary, and (y) in the case where Tenant is the Disclosing Party, that is required to be furnished pursuant to ; ; (but only to the extent furnished on a per Master Lease Leased Property basis (if Lessor is a Ventas Lessor) or on a per Leased Property basis (if Lessor is not a Ventas Lessor)); ; ; , , or ; ; and , and (ii) EBITDAR, profitability, census and regulatory deficiency data for each Master Lease Leased Property (if Lessor is a Ventas Lessor) or for each Leased Property (if Lessor is not a Ventas Lessor). For purposes of this , information and other materials will be deemed furnished or prepared by, or furnished to, a person if furnished or prepared by, or if furnished to, such person or an affiliate of such person, or any employee, agent, partner, representative or advisor of such person. As used in this , person means any natural person and any corporation, partnership, association, firm or other entity or organization of any kind whatsoever, and all references to Recipient in this shall include its affiliates, and an affiliate of a designated person means a second person which (directly or indirectly) controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, such designated person; provided, however, that Lessor and Tenant shall not be deemed to be affiliates.
Section 8.1
8.2
26.1(b)(ii)
26.1(c)
26.1(d)
26.1(e)(iii)
(iv)
(v)
(vii)
26.1(h)
26.1(i)
Section 40.14
Section 40.14
Section 40.14
 
(d) The obligations under will not apply to any Information which (i) was known to Recipient prior to Disclosing Party's disclosure of such Information to Recipient (unless Recipient's knowledge was obtained confidentially or from a source which to Recipient's knowledge was not permitted to disclose such Information to Recipient) or (ii) becomes available to Recipient on a nonconfidential basis from a source (other than Disclosing Party or any of its employees, agents, representatives or advisors) who to the knowledge of the Recipient is not prohibited from disclosing such Information to Recipient by any legal, contractual or fiduciary obligation.
Section 40.14(a)
 
(e) Recipient acknowledges that remedies at law may be inadequate to protect against breach of the provisions of this , and Recipient hereby in advance agrees that Disclosing Party shall not be obligated to establish actual damages or the inadequacy of monetary damages in seeking an injunction. Such injunctive relief will not be deemed to be the
Section 40.14
 
exclusive remedy for a breach by Recipient of the provisions of this Section, but will be in addition to all other remedies available at law or equity to Disclosing Party.
 
(f) Lessor shall have the right to temporarily suspend Tenant's obligation to provide it with Information pursuant to the terms of this Lease or otherwise for a specified period of time or for a period of time terminating upon the occurrence of a specified event, including notice from Lessor (the ""). During the Suspension Period, Tenant shall, if requested by Lessor, deliver such Information to a third party in a confidential relationship with Lessor. Upon expiration or termination of the Suspension Period, Tenant will deliver to Lessor within three Business Days all Information that Tenant otherwise would have been required to deliver during the Suspension Period and shall immediately, once again, be subject to all of the information delivery requirements set forth in this Lease.
Suspension Period
 
(g) Recipient acknowledges that no failure or delay in exercising any right under this shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor will any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right hereunder.
Section 40.14
 
(h) In connection with any proposed disclosure pursuant to , or , the Recipient shall provide the Disclosing Party with advance written notice of the proposed disclosure shall set forth the Information to be disclosed, the proposed date of disclosure (the ""), the basis for such disclosure as well as the manner of such disclosure (the ""). The Disclosure Notice shall be delivered to the Disclosing Party no later than the Disclosure Notification Date (as defined below). The Recipient and the Disclosing Party shall cooperate with one another and negotiate in good faith to seek a mutually satisfactory resolution with respect to such proposed disclosure. In the event the Disclosing Party has not, prior to the Disclosure Date, either (A) consented to the proposed disclosure (or such modified disclosure as the Recipient and Disclosing Party may mutually agree) or (B) itself made disclosure of the Information contained in such Disclosure Notice (or such modified disclosure as the Recipient and Disclosing Party may mutually agree) the Recipient may disclose such Information to the extent and in the manner set forth in such Disclosure Notice.
Section 40.14(b)(iii)
(vii)
(viii)
Disclosure Date
Disclosure Notice
 
(i) Disclosure Notification Date shall mean the latest of the dates set forth below:
 
(A) five (5) Business Days prior to the Disclosure Date;
 
(B) in the case of , such shorter period of time prior to the Disclosure Date which is reasonable (in light of the nature of the Information to be disclosed and the Disclosure Law applicable thereto);
Section 40.14(b)(iii)
 
(C) in the case of , two Business Days preceding any previously publicly announced date for the Ventas Stockholder Distribution; and
Section 40.14(b)(vii)
 
(D) in the case of , three (3) Business Days in advance of the date Ventas, Inc. or VRLP is obligated to accept or reject Tenant's offer to purchase securities in connection with the Accretive Transaction.
Section 40.14(b)(viii)(D)
 
. Lessor shall have the right, at any time and from time to time during the Term for a legitimate business purpose, by written notice to Tenant, to require Tenant to execute an amendment to this Lease whereby one or more Leased Properties (individually, a "" or collectively, "") is separated and removed from this Lease, and to simultaneously execute a substitute lease with respect to such Transferred Property(ies), in which case:
Section 40.15
New Lease
Transferred Property
Transferred Properties
 
(a) Lessor and Tenant shall execute a new lease (the "") for such Transferred Property(ies), effective as of the date specified in subsection (c) below (the ""), in the same form and substance as this Lease, but with the following changes and terms incorporated therein:
New Lease
Property Transfer Date
 
(i) The initial Base Rent for such Transferred Property(ies) shall be an amount equal to the product of (x) the percentage(s) set forth opposite the Transferred Property(ies) on , attached hereto and made a part hereof (the ""), and (y) aggregate Base Rent in effect under this Lease on the Property Transfer Date;
Exhibit C
Transferred Property Percentage(s)
 
(ii) Intentionally omitted;
 
(iii) Intentionally omitted;
 
(iv) Any rental escalations required under the New Lease to be made on the May 1 immediately following the Property Transfer Date shall be made under the New Lease on such May 1, in the full amount required as if such Transferred Property(ies) had been under the New Lease for a full year, notwithstanding that the period from the Property Transfer Date to such succeeding May 1 may be less than one full year;
 
(v) "Base Patient Revenues" as defined in of the New Lease shall mean the Base Patient Revenues from the Transferred Property(ies) for the calendar year ending on December 31, 1999 as set forth on ;
Section 2.1
Schedule 2.1A
 
(vi) Intentionally omitted;
 
(vii) Intentionally omitted;
 
(viii) Without limitation of subsection (xiv) below, under of the New Lease, the Reset Fee under such New Lease shall be an amount equal to the product of (x) the Transferred Property Percentage(s), and (y) the Reset Fee applicable to this Lease on the Property Transfer Date;
Section 3.2
 
(ix) to such New Lease shall include (A) rent only for the Transferred Property(ies) covered by such New Lease; and (B) a Transferred Property Percentage for each such Transferred Property, equal to the percentage that the rent for such Transferred Property comprises of the aggregate rents for all Transferred Properties under such New Lease (and the aggregate of all Transferred Property Percentages under such New Lease shall equal 100%);
Exhibit C
 
(x) Subject to hereof and without limitation and subject to the provisions of , , and of this Lease and all other leases demising any of the Master Lease Leased Properties, the New Lease shall provide that the tenant thereunder shall be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of all duties, obligations and liabilities arising under this Lease, insofar as they relate to the Transferred Property(ies) subject to the New Lease, that were not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to the effective date of the New Lease (and Tenant, in its capacity as the tenant under this Lease, shall also be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of the aforesaid duties, obligations and liabilities not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to the effective date of such New Lease), and shall further provide that the tenant thereunder, in its capacity as the tenant under such New Lease, shall not be responsible for the payment, performance or satisfaction of any duties, obligations and liabilities of Tenant, in its capacity as the tenant under this Lease, arising after the Property Transfer Date (except that, because the tenant under such New Lease shall be the same as Tenant under this Lease, such New Lease will clarify that the tenant under such New Lease, as a legal entity, is responsible for such duties, obligations and liabilities under this Lease);
Section 22.7(g)
Sections 16.10
19.1
25.1.11
40.18
 
(xi) If the New Lease relates to a single Leased Property, the New Lease shall provide that (1) because, for example, such New Lease may thereafter be amended by agreement of Lessor and Tenant to include one or more other leased properties or such New Lease may thereafter be combined with a Second Lease pursuant to of such New Lease, with such New Lease as the Section 40.18 Lease, Lessor and Tenant under such New Lease have, in creating such New Lease as a "New Lease" under of one of the other Combined Leases, nevertheless retained in such New Lease references to multiple Leased Properties and provisions and terms that apply to multiple Leased Properties and (2) without limitation of and subject to , , and of such New Lease and all other leases demising any of the Master Lease Leased Properties, for so long as such New Lease relates to a single Leased Property, the aforesaid references to multiple Leased Properties, and the aforesaid provisions and terms applicable to multiple Leased Properties, shall, if the context so requires in light of such New Lease relating to only a single Leased Property, be treated as references to a single Leased Property or as provisions and terms applicable to a single Leased Property;
Section 40.18
Section 40.15
Sections 16.10
19.1
25.1.11
40.18
 
(xii) The New Lease shall not include any cross-default provisions that would make Tenant's default under this Lease or under any other New Lease entered into in accordance with this Lease or under any of the Master Leases or under any New Lease entered into in accordance with any of such Master Leases an event of default under such New Lease; , , the foregoing portion of this clause (xii) is without limitation of and subject to the provisions of , , and of this Lease and all other leases demising any of the Master Lease Leased Properties;
provided
however
Sections 16.10
19.1
25.1.11
40.18
 
(xiii) At the election of Lessor, any one or more of the provisions of the New Lease pertaining to Ventas, Inc.'s REIT status shall be deleted, including, without limitation, and hereof; and
Section 25.3
Article XXXVI
 
(xiv) The New Lease shall include within thereof a new subsection (g) thereof providing that (1) the lessor under the Original Master Lease shall have the sole and exclusive power and authority to exercise the rights of the lessor under of each lease relating to one or more Master Lease Leased Properties (including the rights of the lessor under of such New Lease), and to bind such lessor with respect thereto and (2) the rights of such lessor under of such New Lease, acting through the lessor under the Original Master Lease as provided in subsection (1) above, must be exercised consistently and simultaneously with the exercise of such rights by the lessor under the Original Master Lease (for example, if a Reset Proposal Notice is to be sent, or the Reset Option is to be exercised, or determinations by appraisal are to be requested, the same must be done at the same time for all of the Master Lease Leased Properties (including the Transferred Properties subject to such New Lease)) and, if the Reset Option is to be exercised, the Reset Fees applicable to such New Lease and all other leases demising any of the Master Lease Leased Properties, must be paid to Tenant in connection with, and as a condition of, any such exercise.
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
Section 3.2
 
(b) Upon execution of such New Lease, and effective as of the Property Transfer Date, this Lease shall be deemed to be modified and amended as follows:
 
(i) The Transferred Property(ies) shall be excluded from the Leased Properties hereunder;
 
(ii) Base Rent hereunder shall be reduced by the amount set forth in above;
Section 40.15(a)(i)
 
(iii) Intentionally omitted;
 
(iv) Intentionally omitted;
 
(v) "Base Patient Revenues", as defined in Section 2.1 hereof, shall be deemed to be reduced by the amount set forth in above;
Section 40.15(a)(v)
 
(vi) Intentionally omitted;
 
(vii) Under of this Lease, the Reset Fee applicable to this Lease shall be reduced by the amount described in above; and
Section 3.2
Section 40.15(a)(viii)
 
(viii) shall be modified so as to remove the allocation of rents and the Transferred Property Percentage(s) for the Transferred Property(ies), and the Transferred Property Percentages of the Leased Properties remaining under this Lease shall be recalculated so that each such Leased Property shall have a Transferred Property Percentage equal to the percentage that the rent for such Leased Property comprises of the aggregate rents for all Leased Properties remaining under this Lease, and so that the aggregate of all Transferred Property Percentages for Leased Properties remaining under this Lease equals 100%.
Exhibit C
 
(c) In the case of any New Lease that is entered into in accordance with hereof, such New Lease shall be effective as of the date of termination of this Lease
Section 22.7
 
with respect to the applicable Leased Property(ies). In the case of any New Lease that is entered into in accordance with hereof, such New Lease shall be effective as of the effective date therefor specified in such . In the case of all other New Leases, such New Lease shall be effective on the date which is the earlier of (i) the date the New Lease is fully executed and delivered by the parties thereto and (ii) the date specified in the written notice from Lessor to Tenant requiring a New Lease as described above, which date shall be no sooner than ten (10) days, nor later than sixty (60) days, after the date such notice is issued.
Section 19.4
Section 19.4
 
(d) Tenant shall take such actions and execute and deliver such documents, including without limitation the New Lease and new or amended Memorandum(s) of Lease and, if requested by Lessor, an amendment to this Lease, as are reasonably necessary and appropriate to fully effectuate the provisions and intent of this and Lessor shall execute and deliver such new or amended Memorandum(s) of Lease as are reasonably necessary and appropriate to fully effectuate the provisions and intent of this and an amendment of this Lease in accordance with above.
Section 40.15
Section 40.15
Section 40.15(b)
 
(e) Each Leasehold Mortgagee, Superior Lessor and Superior Mortgagee hereby consents to the provisions of this and agrees, upon request of Lessor, to execute an instrument consenting to the execution and delivery of the New Lease and of an amendment to this Lease, consistent with the foregoing provisions.
Section 40.15
 
(f) Each party shall bear its own costs and expenses in connection with any New Lease entered into in accordance with hereof. In all other cases, the party requesting a New Lease under this (and, for such purpose, Tenant shall be deemed to be the requesting party in the case of any New Lease entered into in accordance with hereof) shall, promptly following receipt of a written demand therefor and reasonable supporting documentation, reimburse the other party hereto for its out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with such New Lease, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and any recording fees incurred by such other party in connection with the recording of new or amended Memorandum(s) of Lease.
Section 19.4
Section 40.15
Section 22.7
 
. In the event this Lease expires or terminates as to one or more, but less than all, of the Leased Properties (herein, the ""), but no Separate Lease pursuant to or New Lease in accordance with the terms of (e.g. pursuant to the terms of or ), is entered into on account thereof, effective as of the date of such expiration or termination (the ""), the following provisions shall be applicable:
Section 40.16
Partial Expiration/Termination
Expired/Terminated Properties
Section 22.7
Section 40.15
Section 19.4
Section 40.15
Partial Expiration/Termination Date
 
(a) The Expired/Terminated Properties shall be excluded from the Leased Properties hereunder (but without limitation and subject to the provisions of , , and of this Lease and all other leases demising any of the Master Lease Leased Properties);
Sections 16.10
19.1
25.1.11
40.18
 
(b) All Base Rent attributable to the Expired/Terminated Properties (determined based upon the aggregate of the Transferred Property Percentages applicable to the Expired/Terminated Properties), and all Additional Charges attributable to the
 
Expired/Terminated Properties, shall be due and payable as of the Partial Expiration/ Termination Date. The amount of Base Rent attributable to the Leased Properties other than the Expired/Termination Properties as of the Partial Expiration/Termination Date shall equal the amount thereof immediately prior to such Partial Expiration/Termination Date less the amount thereof allocated to the Expired/Terminated Properties as aforesaid;
 
(c) "Base Patient Revenues", as defined in hereof, shall have excluded therefrom all Base Patient Revenues attributable to the Expired/Terminated Properties, as set forth on ;
Section 2.1
Schedule 2.1A
 
(d) "Patient Revenues", as defined in hereof, shall have excluded therefrom all Patient Revenues attributable to the Expired/Terminated Properties;
Section 2.1
 
(e) Intentionally omitted;
 
(f) Under of this Lease, the Reset Fee applicable to this Lease shall be reduced by an amount equal to the product of (i) the aggregate of the Transferred Property Percentages applicable to the Expired/Terminated Properties and (ii) the Reset Fee applicable to this Lease as of the Partial Expiration/Termination Date;
Section 3.2
 
(g) shall be modified so as to remove the allocation of rents to the Expired/Terminated Properties, and the Transferred Property Percentages of the Leased Properties remaining under this Lease shall be recalculated so that each such Leased Property shall have a Transferred Property Percentage equal to the percentage that the rent for such Leased Property comprises of the aggregate rents for all Leased Properties remaining under this Lease, and so that the aggregate of all Transferred Property Percentages for the Leased Properties remaining under this Lease equals 100%;
Exhibit C
 
(h) Nothing in this shall be deemed to limit or impair any of Lessor's or Tenant's rights and remedies at law, in equity, under this Lease or otherwise relative to the Expired/Terminated Properties or the Leased Properties that remain subject to this Lease;
Section 40.16
 
(i) Tenant shall take such actions and execute and deliver such documents, including, without limitation, if requested by Lessor, an amendment to this Lease, as are reasonably necessary and appropriate to fully effectuate the provisions and intent of this .
Section 40.16
 
(j) Each Leasehold Mortgagee, Superior Lessor and Superior Mortgagee hereby consents to the provisions of this and agrees, upon request of Lessor, to execute an instrument consenting to the execution and delivery of an amendment to this Lease, consistent with the foregoing provisions.
Section 40.16
 
Intentionally omitted.
Section 40.17
 
. If Lessor is the lessor under both this Lease and another lease demising a Master Lease Leased Property(ies) (the ""), Lessor shall have the right, at any time during the Term, by written notice to Tenant, to require that this Lease and the Second Lease be combined and to require Tenant to execute an amendment to this Lease
Section 40.18
Combination of Leases
Second Lease
 
whereby (a) if this Lease is the Section 40.18 Lease (as hereinafter defined), the Master Lease Leased Properties covered by the Second Lease are added as Leased Properties under this Lease and otherwise merged into this Lease or (b) if the Second Lease is the Section 40.18 Lease, the Leased Properties covered by this Lease are added as Leased Properties under the Second Lease and otherwise merged into the Second Lease, in each case subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
(i) References in this Lease to the "" shall mean and refer to whichever of this Lease or the Second Lease is chosen by Lessor to be the Section 40.18 Lease.
Section 40.18 Lease
 
(ii) If this Lease is the Section 40.18 Lease, effective as of the date specified in subsection (iv) below (the ""), this Lease shall be deemed to be modified and amended as follows:
Section 40.18 Date
 
(1) The Master Lease Leased Properties included in the Second Lease shall be included as the Leased Properties under this Lease;
 
(2) Base Rent under this Lease shall be the combination of the respective amounts of the Base Rent under this Lease and the Second Lease;
 
(3) Intentionally omitted;
 
(4) Intentionally omitted.
 
(5) Any rental escalations that would otherwise have been required to be made under the Second Lease on the May 1 immediately following the Section 40.18 Date shall be made under this Lease on such May 1, in the full amount required as if the Master Lease Leased Properties referenced in subsection (1) above had been under this Lease for a full year, notwithstanding that the period from the Section 40.18 Date to such succeeding May 1 may be less than one full year;
 
(6) "Base Patient Revenues", as defined in of this Lease, shall be increased by the amount of the Base Patient Revenues from the Master Lease Leased Properties included in the Second Lease for the calendar year ending on December 31, 1999 as set forth in of the Second Lease, and of this Lease shall be deemed modified and amended accordingly;
Section 2.1
Schedule 2.1A
Schedule 2.1A
 
(7) Intentionally omitted.
 
(8) Under of this Lease, the Reset Fee applicable to this Lease shall be the combination of the respective amounts of the Reset Fee applicable to this Lease and the Second Lease;
Section 3.2
 
(9) to this Lease shall be modified and amended so as to add thereto the allocations of rents relative to the Master Lease Leased Properties included in the Second Lease that were previously included in to the Second Lease, and the Transferred Properties Percentages of the Leased Properties included in this Lease (including,
Exhibit C
Exhibit C
 
without limitation, the additional Master Lease Leased Properties referenced in subsection (1) above) shall be recalculated so that each such Leased Property shall have a Transferred Property Percentage equal to the percentage that the rent for such Leased Property comprises of the aggregate rents for all Leased Properties included in this Lease and so that the aggregate of all Transferred Property Percentages for Leased Properties included in this Lease equals 100%;
 
(10) Tenant under this Lease shall be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of all duties, obligations and liabilities arising under the Second Lease, insofar as they relate to the Master Lease Leased Properties subject to the Second Lease, that were not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to the Section 40.18 Date, and, without limitation of the foregoing, (x) any Event of Default that had occurred, arisen or accrued under the Second Lease prior to the Section 40.18 Date shall be, and shall be deemed to be, an Event of Default under this Lease, as to which the rights and remedies and other provisions of this Lease shall be applicable, (y) any breach or default that had occurred, arisen or accrued under the Second Lease prior to the Section 40.18 Date but had not yet become an Event of Default under the Second Lease as of the Section 40.18 Date shall be, and be deemed to be, a breach or default under this Lease, as to which the cure periods, rights and remedies and other provisions of this Lease shall be applicable, and (z) with respect to any breach or default described in subsection (y) above, although the cure periods, rights and remedies and other provisions of this Lease shall be applicable, the portion of any cure period under the Second Lease that had elapsed as of the Section 40.18 Date shall be counted in determining whether and when the applicable cure period under this Lease has expired; and
 
(11) The Master Lease Leased Properties referenced in subsection (1) above shall otherwise be incorporated into this Lease as Leased Properties included under this Lease the same as if this Lease, from the inception of the Second Lease, had included the aforesaid Master Lease Leased Properties as Leased Properties hereunder on the rent, lease terms and other economic terms described in the Second Lease.
 
(iii) If this Lease is not the Section 40.18 Lease, effective as of the Section 40.18 Date, this Lease shall be modified and amended as necessary (x) to incorporate into the Second Lease as Leased Properties thereunder the Leased Properties covered by this Lease the same as if the Leased Properties covered by this Lease had, from the inception of this Lease, been included in the Second Lease as Leased Properties thereunder on the rent, lease terms and other economic terms described in this Lease and (y) otherwise to comply with the requirements of of the Second Lease, as the Section 40.18 Lease thereunder. Tenant acknowledges and agrees that, without limitation of above, the modification and amendment referenced in this subsection (iii) shall not result in Tenant being released from any duties, liabilities or obligations that had accrued under this Lease through the Section 40.18 Date.
Section 40.18
Section 40.18(ii)(10)
 
(iv) In the case of any combination of leases pursuant to this , such combination shall be effective on the date which is the earlier of (x) the date the required modifications and amendments to the Lease and Second Lease are fully executed and delivered by the parties thereto and (y) the date specified in the written notice from Lessor to Tenant requiring a combination of this Lease and the Second Lease
Section 40.18
 
as described above, which date shall be no sooner than ten (10) days, nor later than sixty (60) days, after the date such notice is issued.
 
(v) Each of Lessor and Tenant shall take such actions and execute and deliver such documents, including, without limitation, required modifications and amendments to this Lease and the Second Lease and new or amended Memorandum(s) of Lease, as are reasonably necessary and appropriate to effectuate fully the provisions and intent of this .
Section 40.18
 
(vi) Each Leasehold Mortgagee, Superior Lessor and Superior Mortgagee hereby consents to the provisions of this and agrees, upon request of Lessor, to execute an instrument consenting to the execution and delivery of the required modifications and amendments to this Lease and the Second Lease, consistent with the foregoing provisions.
Section 40.18
 
(vii) Lessor shall, promptly following receipt of a written demand therefor and reasonable supporting documentation, reimburse Tenant for its out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred in connection with the required modifications and amendments to this Lease and the Second Lease, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys' fees and any recording fees incurred by Tenant in connection with the recording of new or amended Memorandum(s) of Lease.
 
. It is acknowledged and agreed that, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the inclusion of each of the Leased Properties on a continuing basis in the leasing transaction provided for herein is an essential element of such transaction for Lessor, and that, except as otherwise expressly provided herein, Lessor shall not be obligated and may not be required to lease less than all of the Leased Properties to Tenant pursuant to this Lease. It is further acknowledged and agreed that this Lease is not a residential lease within the meaning of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, as amended, and that this Lease is an operating lease, and not a capital lease, for all accounting, tax and legal purposes.
Section 40.19
Unified Commercial Operating Lease
 
Intentionally omitted.
Section 40.20
 
. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this Lease or otherwise, except as otherwise expressly provided in the Bankruptcy Plan relative to the Tax Refund Escrow Agreement, Lessor shall not be required to pay, make or give to Tenant, and Tenant shall not be entitled to, any credits, offsets, prorations or payments of any kind or nature whatsoever on account of any payment, nonpayment or other event occurring prior to April 20, 2001.
Section 40.21
No Credits
 
 
. Lessor and Tenant shall, promptly upon the request of either, enter into short form memorandums of this Lease, in form suitable for recording under the laws of the State in which each Leased Property is located, in which reference to this Lease, and all extension options contained herein, shall be made. Relative to the foregoing and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Lease, any such Memorandums of Lease shall not reference the existence of any option to purchase in favor of
Section 41.1
Memorandums of Lease
 
Tenant under of this Lease unless and until the number of Leased Properties covered by this Lease equals forty (40) or less, at which time, upon the request of Tenant, any existing Memorandums of Lease shall be amended by Lessor and Tenant, or new Memorandums of Lease shall be entered into by Lessor and Tenant (for example in the circumstance where this Lease (a) constitutes a New Lease as to which no previous Memorandums of Lease have been entered into and (b) covers forty (40) or less Leased Properties), referencing that, in limited circumstances following the occurrence of certain limited types of Events of Default by Tenant, Tenant may have an option to purchase in certain circumstances one (1) Leased Property, and in other circumstances two (2) Leased Properties, covered by this Lease as to which the aforesaid types of Events of Default have occurred and are continuing. Thereafter, when and if any such option(s) to purchase under of this Lease have ceased to be available to and exercisable by Tenant for any reason (e.g. due to Tenant's exercise of all of its available options to purchase under or on account of this Lease being involved in a lease combination transaction where the resulting Section 40.18 Lease covers in excess of forty (40) Leased Properties or otherwise provides to Tenant no available and exercisable option(s) to purchase under ), upon the request of Lessor, any existing Memorandum(s) of Lease that reference any option to purchase in favor of Tenant shall be amended to delete any such reference. Without limitation of Lessor's obligations under and except as otherwise provided in and , Tenant shall pay all costs and expenses of recording any such Memorandums of Lease or amendments thereto and for releasing any such Memorandums of Lease that relate to a particular Leased Property(ies) upon any expiration or termination of this Lease as it relates to any such Leased Property(ies).
Section 16.12
Section 16.12
Section 16.12
Section 40.18
Section 16.12
Section 40.15(f)
Section 40.18(vii)
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Lease to be executed and their respective corporate seals to be hereunto affixed and attested by their respective officers hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
The undersigned, VENTAS, INC., a Delaware corporation, hereby joins in the foregoing Master Lease Agreement solely for the purposes of (i) confirming to the Tenant under the aforesaid Lease that, to the best of its knowledge, except as described in subsection (ii) below, title to the Leased Properties is held in the name of the Lessor under the aforesaid Lease, rather than in the name of the respective entities that were the lessor under the "Original Master Lease" referenced in the aforesaid Lease, and that, if it is determined that title has not properly been transferred to such Lessor, Ventas, Inc. shall cause the conveyance of such title to Lessor, effective as of April 20, 2001, (ii) confirming to the aforesaid Tenant that, to the best of its knowledge, title to the Leased Property commonly known as Kindred Hospital  Pittsburgh (Facility No. 4619) is held in the name of Ventas, Inc., and (iii) subject to of the aforesaid Lease, joining with Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, on a joint and several basis, as Lessor under the aforesaid Lease with respect to, and only with respect to, the aforesaid Kindred Hospital Pittsburgh Leased Property, and for no other purposes. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the aforesaid Lease, the aforesaid Tenant acknowledges and agrees, by the acceptance of this Joinder, that, except as provided in subsection (i) above, Ventas, Inc. shall have no liability or obligations under the aforesaid Lease, as lessor or otherwise, with respect to any Leased Property other than the aforesaid Kindred Hospital Pittsburgh Leased Property.
Section 40.2
 
 
 
 
On September 7, 2004 before me, a notary public, personally appeared Douglas L. Curnutte,
 
 
 
Witness my hand and official seal.
 
 
 
 
On September 7, 2004 before me, a notary public, personally appeared Douglas L. Curnutte,
 
 
 
Witness my hand and official seal.
 
 
IMPRESS NOTARY SEAL:
 
 
 
On , 2004 before me, a notary public, personally appeared T. Richard Riney,
                    
    
 
personally known to me-OR-
 
proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
 
Witness my hand and official seal.
 
 
 
 
On , 2004 before me, a notary public, personally appeared T. Richard Riney,
                    
    
 
personally known to me-OR-
 
proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person(s) whose name(s) is/are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she/they executed the same in his/her/their authorized capacity(ies), and that by his/her/their signature(s) on the instrument the person(s), or the entity upon behalf of which the person(s) acted, executed the instrument.
 
Witness my hand and official seal.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
THIS LEASE SEVERANCE AND AMENDMENT AGREEMENT (hereinafter this "") is dated as of the 8
Agreement
th
day of September, 2004, and is by and among , a Delaware limited partnership (together with its successors and assigns, "") having an office at 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223, and , a Delaware corporation (f/k/a Vencor, Inc.) (""), and ., a Delaware corporation (f/k/a Vencor Operating, Inc.) (""; Operator, jointly and severally with Kindred and permitted successors and assignees of Operator and Kindred, ""), both having an office at 680 South 4
VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP
Lessor
KINDRED HEALTHCARE, INC.
Kindred
KINDRED HEALTHCARE OPERATING, INC
Operator
Tenant
th
Avenue, Louisville, Kentucky 40202.
 
 
A. Lessor and Tenant have entered into a certain Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 1 dated as of April 20, 2001 (as the same may have been or may hereafter be amended, amended and restated, supplemented, modified, renewed, extended or replaced, the "") demising to Tenant (i) the real property described on attached hereto and made a part hereof, together with the improvements thereon (the ""), and (ii) multiple other properties (the "").
Lease
Exhibit A
Severed Properties
Remaining Properties
 
B. Pursuant to of the Lease, Lessor desires to sever the Lease into two (2) leases, one (1) relating to the Severed Properties and one (1) relating to the Remaining Properties, on the terms set forth in this Agreement.
Section 40.15
 
C. Lessor and Tenant further desire to amend the Lease as it will continue to apply to the Remaining Properties after the aforesaid severance in certain other respects, on the terms set forth in this Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and other good and valuable consideration, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1. All capitalized terms used herein and not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Lease.
 
2. The Lease is hereby severed into two (2) leases as follows: (a) contemporaneously herewith, Lessor and Tenant shall enter into that certain Master Lease Agreement No. 1A (the "") dated as of the date hereof relating to the Severed Properties and (b) the Lease shall continue in full force and effect with respect to the Remaining Properties, and the Severed Properties shall be severed from the Lease, in accordance with and the other provisions of of the Lease (as amended by this Agreement), and accordingly, Lessor and Tenant acknowledge and agree that, with respect to the Lease:
Severed Properties Lease
Section 40.15(b)
Section 40.15
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. The Severed Properties Lease shall constitute a New Lease (as defined in the Lease) created pursuant to of the Lease (as amended by this Agreement). Subject to of the Lease and without limitation of and subject to the provisions of , , and of the Severed Properties Lease and the Lease, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in of the Severed Properties Lease:
Section 40.15
Section 22.7(g)
Sections 16.10
19.1
25.1.11
40.18
Section 1.3
 
(a) Tenant under the Severed Properties Lease shall be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of all duties, obligations and liabilities arising under the Severed Properties Lease, insofar as they relate to the Severed Properties subject to the Severed Properties Lease, that were not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to the Effective Date (as defined in the Severed Properties Lease) (and Tenant, in its capacity as the tenant under the Lease, shall also be responsible for the payment, performance and satisfaction of the aforesaid duties, obligations and liabilities not paid, performed and satisfied in full prior to such Effective Date); and
 
(b) The tenant under the Severed Properties Lease, in its capacity as the tenant under the Severed Properties Lease, shall not be responsible for the payment, performance or satisfaction of any duties, obligations and liabilities of the tenant under the Lease, in its capacity as the tenant under the Lease, arising after such Effective Date (Tenant acknowledges, however, that, because Tenant is both the tenant under the Lease and under the Severed Properties Lease as of the Effective Date, Tenant, as a legal entity, is responsible for such duties, obligations and liabilities under the Lease).
 
4. The text of the Joinder to the Lease that was executed by Ventas, Inc. is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"The undersigned, VENTAS, INC., a Delaware corporation, hereby joins in the foregoing Amended and Restated Master Lease Agreement No. 1 solely for the purpose of confirming to the Tenant under the aforesaid Lease that, to the best of its knowledge, title to the Leased Properties is held in the name of the Lessor under the aforesaid Lease, rather than in the name of the respective entities that were the lessor under the "Original Master Lease" referenced in the aforesaid Lease, and that, if it is determined that title has not properly been transferred to such Lessor, Ventas, Inc. shall cause the conveyance of such title to Lessor, effective as of the Effective Date referenced in the aforesaid Lease. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the aforesaid Lease, the aforesaid Tenant acknowledges and agrees, by the acceptance of this Joinder, that, except as provided in this Joinder, Ventas, Inc. shall have no liability or obligations under the aforesaid Lease, as lessor or otherwise."
 
5. Section 34.1(b) of the Lease is hereby deleted and replaced with the following:
 
 
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership
10350 Ormsby Park Place
Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
Attention: Lease Administration
 
with a copy to:
 
Ventas, Inc.
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership
10350 Ormsby Park Place
Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
Attention: General Counsel
 
6. Except as provided in this Agreement, the Lease remains in full force and effect without modification.
 
7. This Agreement and any amendment to this Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto were upon the same instrument.
 
 
the parties hereto have executed these presents the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
The undersigned, VENTAS, INC., a Delaware corporation, hereby joins in the foregoing Lease Severance and Amendment Agreement solely for the purposes of (i) confirming to the Tenant under the aforesaid Agreement that, to the best of its knowledge, except as described in subsection (ii) below, title to the Severed Properties is held in the name of the Lessor, and that, if it is determined that title has not properly been transferred to such Lessor, Ventas, Inc. shall cause the conveyance of such title to Lessor, effective as of April 20, 2001, (ii) confirming to the aforesaid Tenant that, to the best of its knowledge, title to the Severed Property commonly known as Vencor Hospital  Pittsburgh (Facility No. 4619) is held in the name of Ventas, Inc., and (iii) subject to of the Severed Properties Lease, joining with Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, on a joint and several basis, as Lessor under the aforesaid Severed Properties Lease with respect to, and only with respect to, the aforesaid Vencor Hospital Pittsburgh Severed Property, and for no other purposes. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the aforesaid Severed Properties Lease, the aforesaid Tenant acknowledges and agrees, by the acceptance of this Joinder, that, except as provided in subsection (i) above, Ventas, Inc. shall have no liability or obligations under the aforesaid Severed Properties Lease, as lessor or otherwise, with respect to any Severed Property other than the aforesaid Vencor Hospital Pittsburgh Severed Property.
Section 40.2
 
 
 
 
This 7
th
day of September, 2004, personally came before me Maria Colville, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, Douglas L. Curnutte, who being by me duly sworn, says that he is the VP of Facilities & Real Estate of KINDRED HEALTHCARE, INC., a Delaware corporation, and that the seal affixed to the foregoing instrument in writing is the corporate seal of said corporation, and that said writing was signed and sealed by him on behalf of such corporation by its authority duly given. And the said Douglas L. Curnutte acknowledged the said writing to be the act and deed of said corporation.
 
WITNESS my hand and notarial stamp/seal this 7
th
day of September, 2004.
 
 
 
 
This 7
th
day of September, 2004, personally came before me Maria Colville, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, Douglas L. Curnutte, who being by me duly sworn, says that he is the VP of Facilities & Real Estate of KINDRED HEALTHCARE OPERATING, INC., a Delaware corporation, and that the seal affixed to the foregoing instrument in writing is the corporate seal of said corporation, and that said writing was signed and sealed by him on behalf of such corporation by its authority duly given. And the said Douglas L. Curnutte acknowledged the said writing to be the act and deed of said corporation.
 
WITNESS my hand and notarial stamp/seal this 7
th
day of September, 2004.
 
 
 
 
This day of , 2004, personally came before me Giuseppina Maria Fricano, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, T. Richard Riney, who being by me duly sworn, says that he is the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of VENTAS, INC., a Delaware corporation, in its capacity as the general partner of VENTAS REALTY, LIMITED PARTNERSHIP, a Delaware limited partnership, and that the seal affixed to the foregoing instrument in writing is the corporate seal of said corporation, and that said writing was signed and sealed by him on behalf of such corporation by its authority duly given, in its aforesaid general partner capacity on behalf of the aforesaid limited partnership. And the said Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary acknowledged the said writing to be the act and deed of said corporation.
        
                    
 
WITNESS my hand and notarial stamp/seal this day of , 2004.
        
                    
 
 
 
 
This day of , 2004, personally came before me Giuseppina Maria Fricano, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, T. Richard Riney, who being by me duly sworn, says that he is the Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of VENTAS, INC., a Delaware corporation, and that the seal affixed to the foregoing instrument in writing is the corporate seal of said corporation, and that said writing was signed and sealed by him on behalf of such corporation by its authority duly given. And the said Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary acknowledged the said writing to be the act and deed of said corporation.
        
                    
 
WITNESS my hand and notarial stamp/seal this day of , 2004.
        
                    
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Ventas, Inc. 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Ste 300 Louisville, Kentucky 40223 (502) 357
9000 (502) 357
9001 Fax
 
 
 
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE:VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") said today that it has appointed Christopher T. Hannon, senior vice president and chief financial officer of Province Healthcare Company (NYSE:PRV), to its Board of Directors, effective immediately.
LOUISVILLE, KY (September 9, 2004)
 
"As a senior executive with one of the nation's largest non-urban hospital companies, Chris brings to our Board deep experience and credibility in the hospital sector and in healthcare finance," Ventas Chairman, CEO and President Debra A. Cafaro said. "He will be an important asset to Ventas, particularly as we continue our growth and diversification efforts.
 
"With the appointment of Chris, six of our seven Board members are independent Directors. This underscores our commitment to best practices in corporate governance, which we believe is an important component for building shareholder value," Cafaro added.
 
Since 2002, Hannon, who is 42, has been senior vice president and chief financial officer of Province, which he joined in 1997. (Province has recently announced that it has agreed to be acquired by LifePoint Hospitals, Inc. (Nasdaq:LPNT).) Prior to 1997, Hannon was a vice president with SunTrust Banks, Inc. where he was a senior healthcare lender.
 
Hannon will serve on the Company's Audit and Compliance Committee. He will replace Jay M. Gellert, who will continue to chair Ventas's Executive Committee and sit on its Nominating and Governance Committee.
 
Ventas was assisted in its search by Heidrick & Struggles.
 
Ventas, Inc. is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust that owns healthcare and senior housing assets in 39 states. Its properties include hospitals, nursing facilities and assisted and independent living facilities. More information about Ventas can be found on its website at www.ventasreit.com.
 
Ventas Appoints Christopher T. Hannon to Board
Page 2
September 9, 2004
 
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding Ventas, Inc.'s ("Ventas" or the "Company") and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements.
 
Actual future results and trends for the Company may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"). Factors that may affect the plans or results of the Company include, without limitation, (a) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred") and certain of its affiliates to continue to meet and/or perform their obligations under their contractual arrangements with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, including without limitation the lease agreements and various agreements entered into by the Company and Kindred at the time of the Company's spin off of Kindred on May 1, 1998 (the "1998 Spin Off"), as such agreements may have been amended and restated in connection with Kindred's emergence from bankruptcy on April 20, 2001, (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred to continue to meet and/or perform its obligation to indemnify and defend the Company for all litigation and other claims relating to the healthcare operations and other assets and liabilities transferred to Kindred in the 1998 Spin Off, (c) the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators, tenants and borrowers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and duties under the leases and other agreements with the Company, and their existing credit agreements, (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, (e) the nature and extent of future competition, (f) the extent of future healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates, (g) increases in the cost of borrowing for the Company, (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients, (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company, (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, (k) the ability of the Company to pay down, refinance, restructure, and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due, (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of and the accounting for the Company's interest rate swap agreement, (m) the ability and willingness of the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations, (n) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ending December 31, 2004, (o) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants, and (p) the impact on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of Kindred and the Company's other operators resulting from increased operating costs and uninsured liabilities for professional liability claims, and the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to accurately estimate the magnitude of such liabilities. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Ventas, Inc. 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Ste 300 Louisville, Kentucky 40223 (502) 357
9000 (502) 357
9001 Fax
 
 
 
 
 Ventas, Inc. (NYSE:VTR) ("Ventas" or the "Company") said today that its subsidiary, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, closed its new $300 million secured revolving credit facility initially priced at 125 basis points over LIBOR. The new credit facility replaces the Company's previous revolving credit facility and term loan that were priced at 250 basis points over LIBOR.
LOUISVILLE, KY (September 9, 2004)
 
"The significant improvement in the pricing of our credit facility reflects upgrades in our credit ratings and the success of our diversification program, increased cash flows and profits, and lower leverage. We are delighted that these accomplishments are being recognized through this extremely attractive credit facility," Ventas Chairman, President and CEO Debra A. Cafaro said. "With a lower cost of capital, we can continue to execute our business strategy of diversifying our asset base and revenue sources within the healthcare and senior housing sector."
 
The Company's new credit facility matures in three years and gives the Company a one-year extension option to September 2008. It includes a $150 million "accordion feature" that permits the Company to expand its borrowing capacity to a total of $450 million. The Company's LIBOR margin under the credit agreement will adjust as the Company's leverage changes. Finally, the Company reduced the number of properties pledged as collateral under its new credit facility.
 
Ventas said the initial amount drawn under the new credit facility was $149 million and the proceeds were used to repay all outstanding indebtedness under the Company's existing credit agreement. It expects to record an expense of $1.4 million in the third quarter representing the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees related to its prior credit facility, which expense is excluded from the Company's previously announced 2004 normalized FFO guidance.
 
Banc of America Securities, LLC was the sole lead arranger for the credit facility. Bank of America, N.A., Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith Incorporated, UBS Securities LLC, Calyon New York Branch, JPMorgan Chase Bank and Citicorp North America, Inc. participated in the facility in various agent capacities.
 
Ventas Closes New Credit Facility
Page 2
September 9, 2004
 
VENTAS DECLARES REGULAR QUARTERLY DIVIDEND
 
Ventas also said that its Board of Directors declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.325 per share, payable in cash on September 30, 2004, to stockholders of record on September 20, 2004. The dividend is the third quarterly installment of the Company's 2004 annual dividend. The Company has approximately 84.2 million shares of common stock outstanding.
 
Ventas, Inc. is a leading healthcare real estate investment trust that owns healthcare and senior housing assets in 39 states. Its properties include hospitals, nursing facilities and assisted and independent living facilities. More information about Ventas can be found on its website at www.ventasreit.com.
 
This press release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. All statements regarding Ventas, Inc.'s ("Ventas" or the "Company") and its subsidiaries' expected future financial position, results of operations, cash flows, funds from operations, dividends and dividend plans, financing plans, business strategy, budgets, projected costs, capital expenditures, competitive positions, growth opportunities, expected lease income, continued qualification as a real estate investment trust ("REIT"), plans and objectives of management for future operations and statements that include words such as "anticipate," "if," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," "may," "could," "should," "will" and other similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are inherently uncertain, and security holders must recognize that actual results may differ from the Company's expectations. The Company does not undertake a duty to update such forward-looking statements.
 
Actual future results and trends for the Company may differ materially depending on a variety of factors discussed in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"). Factors that may affect the plans or results of the Company include, without limitation, (a) the ability and willingness of Kindred Healthcare, Inc. ("Kindred") and certain of its affiliates to continue to meet and/or perform their obligations under their contractual arrangements with the Company and the Company's subsidiaries, including without limitation the lease agreements and various agreements entered into by the Company and Kindred at the time of the Company's spin off of Kindred on May 1, 1998 (the "1998 Spin Off"), as such agreements may have been amended and restated in connection with Kindred's emergence from bankruptcy on April 20, 2001, (b) the ability and willingness of Kindred to continue to meet and/or perform its obligation to indemnify and defend the Company for all litigation and other claims relating to the healthcare operations and other assets and liabilities transferred to Kindred in the 1998 Spin Off, (c) the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators, tenants and borrowers to maintain the financial strength and liquidity necessary to satisfy their respective obligations and duties under the leases and other agreements with the Company, and their existing credit agreements, (d) the Company's success in implementing its business strategy and the Company's ability to identify, consummate and integrate diversifying acquisitions or investments, (e) the nature and extent of future competition, (f) the extent of future healthcare reform and regulation, including cost containment measures and changes in reimbursement policies, procedures and rates, (g) increases in the cost of borrowing for the Company, (h) the ability of the Company's operators to deliver high quality care and to attract patients, (i) the results of litigation affecting the Company, (j) changes in general economic conditions and/or economic conditions in the markets in which the Company may, from time to time, compete, (k) the ability of the Company to pay down, refinance, restructure, and/or extend its indebtedness as it becomes due, (l) the movement of interest rates and the resulting impact on the value of and the accounting for the Company's interest rate swap agreement, (m) the ability and willingness of the Company to maintain its qualification as a REIT due to economic, market, legal, tax or other considerations, (n) final determination of the Company's taxable net income for the year ending December 31, 2004, (o) the ability and willingness of the Company's tenants to renew their leases with the Company upon expiration of the leases and the Company's ability to relet its properties on the same or better terms in the event such leases expire and are not renewed by the existing tenants, and (p) the impact on the liquidity, financial condition and results of operations of Kindred and the Company's other operators resulting from increased operating costs and uninsured liabilities for professional liability claims, and the ability of Kindred and the Company's other operators to accurately estimate the magnitude of such liabilities. Many of such factors are beyond the control of the Company and its management.
 


