FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20041015173003.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
The disclosure contained in "Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement" and Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are incorporated in this Item 1.01 by reference.
 
 
6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2014
 
On October 15, 2004, Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership ("Ventas Realty") and Ventas Capital Corporation ("Ventas Capital," and together with Ventas Realty, the "Issuers"), wholly owned subsidiaries of Ventas, Inc. (the "Company"), issued and sold $125.0 million aggregate principal amount of 6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Notes") of the Issuers through a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A and in offshore transactions pursuant to Regulation S, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). The Notes were sold pursuant to a Purchase Agreement, dated October 8, 2004, by and among the Issuers, the Company and Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company ("Ventas LLC" and, together with the Issuers and the Company, the "Ventas Entities"), and Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers"), a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference. The Notes bear interest at a rate of 6 5/8%, payable semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 2005. The Notes mature on October 15, 2014. The Notes are unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally, on a senior unsecured basis by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries until certain conditions are met.
 
The Notes are general unsecured obligations of the Issuers, the Company and the other guarantors, ranking equal in right of payment with such entities' existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness and ranking senior in right of payment to all of such entities' existing and future subordinated indebtedness. The Notes will be effectively subordinated to all borrowings and other obligations under the Credit Agreement (defined below) with respect to the assets securing those obligations. The Notes will also be structurally subordinated to the indebtedness and other obligations of the Company's subsidiaries that are not guarantors with respect to the assets of those entities.
 
The Issuers intend to use the net proceeds from the sale of the Notes to repay a portion of their outstanding indebtedness under the Company's Third Amended and Restated Credit, Security and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2004 (the "Credit Agreement"), among the Company, as guarantor, Ventas Realty, as borrower, and the lenders identified therein. As
 
lenders under the Credit Agreement, affiliates of each of the Initial Purchasers will receive bank fees and repayments in respect of loans outstanding under the Credit Agreement to be funded with the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes. Banc of America, N.A., an affiliate of Banc of America Securities LLC, is the administrative agent, issuing bank and cash collateral bank under the Credit Agreement. In addition, affiliates of each of the other Initial Purchasers serve in various agent capacities under the Credit Agreement.
 
The terms of the Notes, summarized below, are governed by the Indenture, dated as of October 15, 2004, among the Issuers, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries, as guarantors, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Indenture"). The Indenture contains certain covenants that limit the Issuers' ability and the ability of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries, as defined therein, to, among other things, incur debt; incur secured debt; make certain dividend payments, distributions and investments; enter into certain transactions, including transactions with affiliates; restrict dividends or other payments from subsidiaries; merge, consolidate or transfer all or substantially all of their respective assets; and sell assets. Upon the occurrence of certain types of changes of control, the Indenture requires the Issuers to make an offer to repurchase the Notes at 101% of the principal amount thereof, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date, unless certain conditions are met.
 
The Indenture allows the Issuers to redeem the Notes, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, (i) at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof plus a make-whole premium if the redemption occurs before October 15, 2009 and (ii) at redemption prices of 103.313%, 102.208% and 101.104% of the principal amount thereof if the redemption occurs during the respective 12-month periods beginning on October 15 of the years 2009, 2010 and 2011 and at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount thereof on and after October 15, 2012, in each case, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date. In addition, the Issuers may redeem up to 35% of the Notes before October 15, 2007 with net cash proceeds from certain equity offerings at a redemption price of 106.625% of the principal amount of the Notes to be so redeemed, plus any accrued and unpaid interest to the redemption date.
 
The Indenture contains customary events of default including, without limitation, failure to make required payments, failure to comply with certain agreements or covenants, cross-defaults to certain other indebtedness in excess of specified amounts, certain events of bankruptcy and insolvency, and failure to pay certain judgments. An event of default under the Indenture will allow either the Trustee or the holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes to accelerate, or in certain cases, will automatically cause the acceleration of the amounts due under the Notes.
 
U.S. Bank National Association, the trustee under the Indenture, is also the trustee under each of the indentures relating to the Issuers' 8 3/4% Senior Notes due 2009 and 9% Senior Notes due 2012.
 
The foregoing description of the Notes and the Indenture is qualified by reference in its entirety to the Indenture, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, or applicable state securities laws, and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration under the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws or applicable exemptions from these registration requirements.
 
Registration Rights Agreement
 
On October 15, 2004, the Ventas Entities and the Initial Purchasers entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement"), pursuant to which the Ventas Entities agreed to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement (the "Exchange Offer Registration Statement") under the Securities Act relating to the registration of a new series of 6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Exchange Notes"), with terms substantially similar to the Notes, on or prior to December 14, 2004. Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Ventas Entities are required to offer to the holders of the Notes pursuant to an exchange offer (the "Exchange Offer") who are able to make certain representations the opportunity to exchange their Notes for Exchange Notes. The Ventas Entities are required to use their commercially reasonable efforts to have the Exchange Offer Registration Statement declared effective by the Commission on or prior to 180 days after October 15, 2004. Unless the Exchange Offer would not be permitted by applicable law or Commission policy, the Ventas Entities must commence the Exchange Offer and use their best efforts to issue within 30 business days, or longer if required by the federal securities laws, after the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission, Exchange Notes in exchange for all Notes tendered prior thereto in the Exchange Offer. If the Exchange Offer is prohibited by applicable law or Commission policy, or is otherwise not consummated within 30 business days after the 180
th
day following October 15, 2004, the Ventas Entities are required to file with the Commission a shelf registration statement ("Shelf Registration Statement") to cover resales of the Notes by the holders of the Notes who satisfy certain conditions relating to the provision of information in connection with such Shelf Registration Statement. If so obligated, the Ventas Entities are required to use their best efforts to file the a Shelf Registration Statement with the Commission on or prior to 45 days after such filing obligation arises and to cause such shelf registration to be declared effective by the Commission on or prior to 180 days after such obligation arises.
 
If the Ventas Entities fail to satisfy any of the obligations described above on a timely basis, the Ventas Entities are required to pay liquidated damages in the form of additional interest on the notes to the holders of the Notes under certain circumstances. The Ventas Entities must pay liquidated damages on the Notes if: (i) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the Commission on or prior to December 14, 2004, (ii) the Commission does not declare the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective on or prior to the 180
th
day following October 15, 2004, or (iii) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 30
th
business day following the date of effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
 
The foregoing description of the Registration Rights Agreement is qualified by reference in its entirety to the Registration Rights Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 4.2 and incorporated in this Item 2.03 by reference.
 
 
(a)
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
Not applicable.
 
(b)
Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
Not applicable.
 
(c)
Exhibits:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N.A. means not applicable.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE dated as of October 15, 2004 among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, a Delaware corporation (collectively, the ""), the Guarantors (as defined) and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "").
Issuers
Trustee
 
The Issuers, the Guarantors and the Trustee agree as follows for the benefit of each other and for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders (as defined) of the 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "") and the 6
Series A Notes
 5
/
8
% Series B Notes due 2014 (the "" and, together with the Series A Notes, the ""), to be issued in exchange for the Series A Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement (as defined herein):
Series B Notes
Notes
 
 
 
Section 1.01 Definitions.
 
"" means Debt of a Person () existing at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary or () assumed in connection with the acquisition of assets from such Person, in each case, other than Debt incurred in connection with, or in contemplation of, such Person becoming a Subsidiary or such acquisition. Acquired Debt is deemed to be incurred on the date of the related acquisition of assets from any Person or the date the acquired Person becomes a Subsidiary.
Acquired Debt
1
2
 
"" means Notes (other than the Initial Notes) issued under this Indenture in accordance with Sections 2.02 and 4.09 hereof.
Additional Notes
 
"" means, as of any date () with respect to any () Real Estate Asset that was owned as of April 17, 2002 and continued to be owned as of such date of determination by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and () Reacquired Qualified CMBS Real Estate Assets, in each case, () the Real Estate Revenues specified for such Real Estate Asset on Schedule I attached hereto, divided by 0.0925, plus () any annualized incremental rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Asset as a result of, arising out of or in connection with the Kindred Reset Right of the Partnership with respect to such Real Estate Asset (whether by agreement or exercise of such right or otherwise), divided by 0.0925, () with respect to any Real Estate Assets acquired after April 17, 2002 that are owned by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries as of such date of determination (other than Reacquired Qualified CMBS Real Estate Assets), the cost (original cost plus capital improvements, before depreciation and amortization) of such Real Estate Asset and () with respect to all other assets as of any date of determination, the book value of such asset as of such date, in each case on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP. For the purpose of clause (2) of this definition, "annualized incremental rental revenue" in respect of a Real Estate Asset shall mean the increase in daily rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Asset as a result of, arising out of or in connection with the Kindred Reset Right (whether by agreement or exercise of such right or otherwise) over the daily rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Asset immediately prior to the effective date of such increase, annualizing by multiplying such daily increase by 365.
Adjusted Book Value
a
i
ii
1
2
b
c
"" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For purposes of this definition, "control," as used with respect to any Person, means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of such Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by agreement or otherwise. For purposes of this definition, the terms "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" have correlative meanings. No Person (other than Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) in whom a Special Purpose Entity makes an Investment in connection with a Qualified CMBS Transaction will be deemed to be an Affiliate of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries solely by reason of such Investment.
Affiliate
 
"" means any Registrar, co-registrar, Paying Agent or additional paying agent.
Agent
 
"" as of any date means the amount which was expensed in the four consecutive fiscal quarters ending on the most recent Measurement Date for interest on Debt of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries excluding () amortization of debt discount and deferred financing cost, () all gains and losses associated with the unwinding or break-funding of interest rate swap agreements, () the impact of that certain interest rate cap agreement between the Partnership and Bank of America, N.A., dated December 11, 2001, () the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, () prepayment fees, premiums and penalties and () non-cash swap ineffectiveness charges.
Annual Debt Service
1
2
3
4
5
6
 
"" means, with respect to any transfer or exchange of or for beneficial interests in any Global Note, the rules and procedures of the Depositary, Euroclear and Clearstream that apply to such transfer or exchange.
Applicable Procedures
 
"" means:
Asset Sale
 
(1) the sale, lease, conveyance or other disposition by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of any assets, other than leases of Real Estates Assets and sales of products and services, in each case, in the ordinary course of business consistent with past practices; , that the sale, conveyance or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole will be governed by Section 4.14 and/or Article 5 and not by Section 4.11; and
provided
however
 
(2) the issuance of Equity Interests by any of Ventas, Inc.'s Restricted Subsidiaries or the sale of Equity Interests in any of Ventas, Inc.'s Restricted Subsidiaries;
 
Notwithstanding the preceding, the following items will not be deemed to be Asset Sales:
 
(1) any single transaction or series of related transactions that involves assets having a Fair Market Value of less than $10.0 million;
 
(2) a transfer of assets between or among Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than any Permitted Joint Ventures);
 
(3) an issuance of Equity Interests by a Restricted Subsidiary to Ventas, Inc. or to another Restricted Subsidiary;
 
(4) the sale, lease or other disposition of equipment, inventory, accounts receivable or other assets in the ordinary course of business;
 
(5) the sale or other disposition of cash or Cash Equivalents;
 
(6) a Restricted Payment that is permitted by Section 4.07 hereof or any Permitted Investment;
 
(7) any Asset Swap;
 
(8) any issuance of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) by the Partnership in order to acquire assets that are used or useful in a Permitted Business; and
 
(9) any sale, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of assets of the type specified in the definition of "Qualified CMBS Transaction" to an Unrestricted Subsidiary for the Fair Market Value thereof, including cash received at the time of such sale, transfer, conveyance or disposition in an amount at least equal to 65% of the Adjusted Book Value thereof as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
"" means an exchange by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of property or assets for property or assets of another Person; , that () Ventas, Inc. or the applicable Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, receives consideration at the time of such exchange at least equal to the Fair Market Value of the assets or other property sold, issued or otherwise disposed of (as evidenced by a resolution of Ventas, Inc.'s or such Restricted Subsidiaries' Board of Directors set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee), and () at least 75% of the consideration for such exchange constitutes assets or other property of a kind usable by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in a Permitted Business; , that any consideration not constituting assets or property of a kind usable by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in a Permitted Business received by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in connection with any exchange permitted to be consummated pursuant to Section 4.11 hereof shall constitute Net Proceeds subject to the provisions of Section 4.11 hereof.
Asset Swap
provided
however,
i
ii
provided
however
 
"" means Title 11, U.S. Code or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors.
Bankruptcy Law
 
"" means:
Board of Directors
 
(1) with respect to a corporation, the Board of Directors of the corporation;
 
(2) with respect to a partnership, the Board of Directors of the general partner of the partnership; and
 
(3) with respect to any other Person, the board or committee of such Person serving a similar function.
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Broker-Dealer
 
"" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in The City of New York are required or authorized to close.
Business Day
 
"" means, with respect to any entity, any capital stock (including preferred stock), shares, interests, participation or other ownership interests (however designated) of such entity and any rights (other than debt securities convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock), warrants or options to purchase any thereof; , , that leases of real property that provide for contingent rent based on the financial performance of the tenant shall not be deemed to be Capital Stock.
Capital Stock
provided
however
 
"" means, at the time any determination is to be made, the amount of the liability in respect of a capital lease that would at that time be required to be capitalized on a balance sheet in accordance with GAAP.
Capitalized Lease Obligation
 
"" means demand deposits, certificates of deposit or repurchase agreements with banks or financial institutions, marketable obligations of the United States of America or any of its agencies or instrumentalities, or any commercial paper or other obligation rated, at time of purchase, "P-2" or better by Moody's or "A-2" or better by S&P and repurchase obligations with a term of not more than 10 days for underlying securities supported by the full faith and credit of the United States of America, and money market funds substantially all of whose investments constitute Cash Equivalents.
Cash Equivalents
 
"" means Clearstream Banking, S.A.
Clearstream
 
"" means () such time as any "person" or "group" (as such terms are defined in Sections 13(d) and 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "")) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of more than 50% of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of Ventas, Inc. on a fully diluted basis; , that a person shall not
Change of Control
i
Exchange Act
provided
however,
 
be deemed to be the beneficial owner of securities subject to a merger, stock purchase, subscription or other agreement, if the acquisition of such securities is subject to conditions outside of such person's control, until such acquisition actually occurs; () the first day on which the Partnership ceases to be a Restricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. or () the first day on which the Partnership fails to own 100% of the issued and outstanding Equity Interests of Ventas Capital Corporation.
ii
iii
 
"" means that certain commercial mortgage backed securities transaction sponsored by Ventas, Inc. and evidenced by the CMBS Transaction Documents.
CMBS Transaction
 
"" means, collectively, (a) that certain Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of December 12, 2001, between Ventas Finance I, LLC, as borrower, and Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc., as lender, and (b) all agreements, certificates and other instruments executed in connection therewith, each as may be supplemented and amended from time to time.
CMBS Transaction Documents
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
"" for any period means Earnings from Operations of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries plus amounts which have been deducted, and minus amounts which have been added, for the following (without duplication): () total interest expense of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, including interest or distributions on Debt of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries, () provision for taxes based on income or profits or the Tax Amount of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, to the extent that such provision for taxes or Tax Amount was included in computing such Consolidated Income Available for Debt Service, () amortization of debt discount and deferred financing costs, () provisions for gains and losses on properties, () depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of prepaid cash expenses that were paid in a prior period), () the effect of any non-cash charge resulting from a change in accounting principles in determining Earnings from Operations for such period, () amortization of deferred charges, and () the aggregate amount of all non-cash expenses (excluding any such non-cash expenses to the extent that it represents an accrual of or reserve for cash expenses in any future period or amortization of a prepaid cash expense that was paid in a prior period), determined on a consolidated basis, to the extent such items increased or decreased Earnings from Operations for such period.
Consolidated Income Available for Debt Service
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
 
"" means, as of any date, all tangible assets of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP and classified as such on the consolidated balance sheet of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Net Tangible Assets
 
"" will be at the address of the Trustee specified in Section 12.02 hereof or such other address as to which the Trustee may give notice to the Issuers.
Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee
 
"" means that certain Third Amended and Restated Credit, Security and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of September 8, 2004, by and among the Partnership, Ventas, Inc., Bank of America, N.A., as Administrative Agent and Issuing Bank, Merrill Lynch & Co., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC, as Co-Syndication Agents, and Calyon New York Branch, JP Morgan Chase Bank and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Co-Documentation Agents, and the lenders party thereto providing for up to $300.0 million of revolving credit borrowings, including any related notes, guarantees, collateral documents, instruments and agreements executed in connection therewith, and in each case as amended, modified, renewed, extended, increased, refunded, replaced or refinanced from time to time (whether or not with the original agents or lenders and whether or not contemplated under the original agreement relating thereto).
Credit Agreement
 
"" means, one or more debt facilities (including, without limitation, the Credit Agreement) or commercial paper facilities, in each case with banks or other institutional lenders providing for revolving credit loans, term loans, receivables financing (including through the sale of receivables to such lenders or to special purpose entities formed to borrow from such lenders against such receivables) or letters of credit, in each case, as amended, restated, modified, renewed, extended, increased, refunded, replaced or refinanced in whole or in part from time to time (whether or not with the original agents or lenders and whether or not contemplated under the original agreement relating thereto).
Credit Facilities
 
"" means the Trustee, as custodian with respect to the Notes in global form, or any successor entity thereto.
Custodian
 
"" of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries means, without duplication, any indebtedness of Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary, whether or not contingent, in respect of:
Debt
 
(1) borrowed money or evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures or similar instruments;
 
(2) indebtedness for borrowed money secured by any encumbrance existing on property owned by Ventas, Inc. or its Restricted Subsidiaries, to the extent of the lesser of () the amount of indebtedness so secured or () the Fair Market Value of the property subject to such encumbrance;
x
y
 
(3) the reimbursement obligations in connection with any letters of credit actually drawn or amounts representing the balance deferred and unpaid of
 
the purchase price of any property or services, except any such balance that constitutes an accrued expense, trade payable, conditional sale obligations or obligations under any title retention agreement;
 
(4) the principal amount of all obligations of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries with respect to redemption, repayment or other repurchase of any Disqualified Stock;
 
(5) any lease of property by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries as lessee which is reflected on Ventas, Inc.'s or such Restricted Subsidiaries' consolidated balance sheet as a Capitalized Lease Obligation,
 
to the extent, in the case of items of indebtedness under clauses (1) through (5) above, that any such items would appear as a liability on Ventas, Inc.'s or such Restricted Subsidiaries' consolidated balance sheet in accordance with GAAP; or
 
(6) the liquidation preference of any Disqualified Stock of Ventas, Inc. or of any shares of preferred stock of any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
Debt also includes, to the extent not otherwise included, any obligation by Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries to be liable for, or to pay, as obligor, guarantor or otherwise (other than for purposes of collection in the ordinary course of business), Debt of another Person (other than Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries); it being understood that Debt shall be deemed to be incurred by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries whenever Ventas, Inc. or such Restricted Subsidiary shall create, assume, guarantee or otherwise become liable in respect thereof; , that a Person shall not be deemed to have incurred Debt (or be liable with respect to such Debt) by virtue of Standard Securitization Undertakings.
provided
however
 
Debt shall not include () Debt arising from agreements of Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary providing for indemnification, adjustment or holdback of purchase price or similar obligations, in each case, incurred or assumed in connection with the acquisition or disposition of any business, assets or a Subsidiary, other than guarantees of Debt incurred by any Person acquiring all or any portion of such business, assets or Subsidiary for the purpose of financing such acquisition or () contingent obligations under performance bonds, performance guarantees, surety bonds, appeal bonds or similar obligations incurred in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices. In the case of Debt as of any date issued with original issue discount, the amount of such Debt shall be the accreted value thereof as of such date.
a
b
 
"" means any event that is, or with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both would be, an Event of Default.
Default
 
"" means a certificated Note registered in the name of the Holder thereof and issued in accordance with Section 2.06 hereof, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto except that such Note shall not bear the Global Note Legend and shall not have the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto.
Definitive Note
 
"" means, with respect to the Notes issuable or issued in whole or in part in global form, the Person specified in Section 2.03 hereof as the Depositary with respect to the Notes, and any and all successors thereto appointed as depositary hereunder and having become such pursuant to the applicable provision of this Indenture.
Depositary
 
"" means, with respect to any entity, any Capital Stock of such entity which by the terms of such Capital Stock (or by the terms of any security into which it is convertible or for which it is exchangeable or exercisable), upon the happening of any event or otherwise (other than pursuant to a change of control provision not materially more favorable to the holder thereof than as set forth in Section 4.14 hereof), () matures or is mandatorily redeemable, pursuant to a sinking fund obligation or otherwise (other than Capital Stock which is redeemable solely in exchange for Capital Stock which is not Disqualified Stock or for Subordinated Debt), () is convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Debt, other than Subordinated Debt or Disqualified Stock, or () is redeemable at the option of the holder thereof, in whole or in part (other than Capital Stock which is redeemable solely in exchange for Capital Stock which is not Disqualified Stock or for Subordinated Debt), in each case on or prior to the stated maturity of the Notes.
Disqualified Stock
1
2
3
 
"" for any period means the consolidated net income of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries without reduction for any minority interests, excluding gains and losses on sales of investments, extraordinary items (including, in any event, losses on extinguishment of debt), distributions on equity securities, property valuation losses, and the net income of any Person, other than a Restricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. (except to the extent of cash dividends or distributions paid to Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary) as reflected in the financial statements of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries for such period, on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP, and excluding the cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles.
Earnings from Operations
 
"" means Capital Stock and all warrants, options or other rights to acquire Capital Stock (but excluding any debt security that is convertible into, or exchangeable for, Capital Stock).
Equity Interests
 
"" means any underwritten public offering of Capital Stock of Ventas, Inc., the proceeds of which, in an amount equal to or exceeding the amount of any Equity Claw-back Redemption, are contributed to the Partnership as a capital contribution.
Equity Offering
 
"" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V., as operator of the Euroclear system.
Euroclear
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means the Series B Notes to be issued to holders in exchange for Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Notes
 
"" means the registration by the Issuers and the Guarantors under the Securities Act of the Exchange Notes pursuant to a Registration Statement pursuant to which the Issuers and the Guarantors offer the Holders of all outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities the opportunity to exchange all such outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities held by such Holders for Exchange Notes and Guarantees thereof in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Transfer Restricted Securities tendered in such exchange offer by such Holders.
Exchange Offer
 
"" means the Registration Statement relating to the Exchange Offer, including the related Prospectus.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 
"" means any Permitted Joint Venture created or acquired after April 17, 2002; , that the only Investments made by Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries in such Permitted Joint Venture are made pursuant to clauses (10) or (11) of the definition of Permitted Investments or are Restricted Payments permitted by Section 4.07 hereof.
Excluded Joint Venture
provided
however,
 
"" means Debt of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than Debt under the Credit Agreement) in existence on the date of the Indenture, until such amounts are repaid.
Existing Debt
 
"" means, with respect to any asset, the price (after taking into account any liabilities relating to such assets) which could be negotiated in an arm's-length free market transaction between a willing seller and a willing buyer, neither of which is under pressure or compulsion to complete the transaction. Fair Market Value shall be determined by the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. in good faith.
Fair Market Value
 
"" for any period means Earnings from Operations for such period plus amounts that have been deducted, and minus amounts that have been added, for the following (without duplication): () provision for taxes of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries based on income, () amortization of debt discount and deferred financing costs, () provisions for gains and losses on properties and property depreciation and amortization, () the effect of any non-cash charge resulting from a change in accounting principles in determining Earnings from Operations for such period, () amortization of deferred charges, () gains (and losses) associated with the
Funds from Operations
1
2
3
4
5
6
 
termination, in whole or in part, of any interest rate swap agreement, () the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees and () prepayment fees, premiums and penalties.
7
8
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles set forth in the opinions and pronouncements of the Accounting Principles Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and statements and pronouncements of the Financial Accounting Standards Board or in such other statements by such other entity as have been approved by a significant segment of the accounting profession, which are in effect on the date of determination.
GAAP
 
"" means, individually and collectively, each of the Restricted Global Notes and the Unrestricted Global Notes, substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto issued in accordance with Section 2.01, 2.06(b)(3), 2.06(b)(4), 2.06(d)(2) or 2.06(f) hereof.
Global Notes
 
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(2), which is required to be placed on all Global Notes issued under this Indenture.
Global Note Legend
 
"" means a guarantee other than by endorsement of negotiable instruments for collection in the ordinary course of business, direct or indirect, in any manner including, without limitation, by way of a pledge of assets or through letters of credit or reimbursement agreements in respect thereof, of all or any part of any Debt.
Guarantee
 
"" means each of:
Guarantors
 
(1) Ventas, Inc.; and
 
(2) any other Restricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. (other than an Excluded Joint Venture) that executes a Note Guarantee of the Notes in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture;
 
and their respective successors and assigns; , that any Person constituting a Guarantor as described above shall cease to constitute a Guarantor when its Guarantee of the Notes is released in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
provided
however
 
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, the obligations of such Person under:
Hedging Obligations
 
(1) interest rate swap agreements, interest rate cap agreements and interest rate collar agreements; and
 
(2) other agreements or arrangements designed to protect such Person against fluctuations in interest rates or foreign exchange rates.
 
"" means a Person in whose name a Note is registered.
Holder
 
"" means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee that will be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold to Institutional Accredited Investors.
IAI Global Note
 
"" means issue, create, assume, guarantee, incur or otherwise become liable for; , that any Debt or Capital Stock of a Person existing at the time such Person becomes a Restricted Subsidiary (whether by merger, consolidation, acquisition or otherwise) shall be deemed to be incurred by such Subsidiary at the time it becomes a Restricted Subsidiary. Neither the accrual of interest nor the accretion of original issue discount shall be deemed to be an incurrence of Debt. The term "incurrence" when used as a noun shall have a correlative meaning.
incur
provided
however,
 
"" means this Indenture, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Indenture
 
"" means a Person who holds a beneficial interest in a Global Note through a Participant.
Indirect Participant
 
"" means the first $125,000,000 aggregate principal amount of Series A Notes issued under this Indenture on the date hereof.
Initial Notes
 
"" means Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and UBS Securities LLC.
Initial Purchasers
 
"" means an institution that is an "accredited investor" as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (), () or () under the Securities Act, that is not also a QIB.
Institutional Accredited Investor
2
3
7
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Notes.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, all direct or indirect investments by such Person in other Persons (including Affiliates) in the forms of loans (including Guarantees or other obligations), advances or capital contributions (excluding commission, travel and similar advances to directors, officers and employees made in the ordinary course of business), purchases or other acquisitions for consideration of Debt, Equity Interests or other securities, together with all items that are or would be classified as investments on a balance sheet prepared in accordance with GAAP. If Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary sells or otherwise disposes of any Equity Interests of any direct or indirect Restricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. or such Restricted Subsidiary such that, after giving effect to any such sale or disposition, such Person is no longer a Restricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc., Ventas, Inc. or such Restricted Subsidiary will be deemed to have made an Investment on the date of any such sale or disposition equal to the Fair
Investments
 
Market Value of the Equity Interests of such Subsidiary not sold or disposed. The acquisition by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries of a Person that holds an Investment in a third Person will be deemed to be an Investment by Ventas, Inc. or such Restricted Subsidiary in such third Person in an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of the Investment held by the acquired Person in such third Person. "Investments" shall exclude extensions of trade credit on commercially reasonable terms in accordance with normal trade practices.
 
"" means Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, and any and all successors thereto.
Issuers
 
"" means, with respect to any Real Estate Asset, the one-time right of the Partnership to reset the rents with respect to such Real Estate Asset under any of the four amended and restated master lease agreements dated April 20, 2001 between the Partnership and Kindred Healthcare, Inc., as amended from time to time, exercisable by notice given on or after January 20, 2006 and on or before July 19, 2007, to a then fair market rental rate.
Kindred Reset Right
 
"" means the letter of transmittal to be prepared by the Issuers and sent to all Holders of the Notes for use by such Holders in connection with the Exchange Offer.
Letter of Transmittal
 
"" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and, except in connection with any Qualified CMBS Transaction, any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction.
Lien
 
"" means all liquidated damages then owing pursuant to Section 4 of the Registration Rights Agreement.
Liquidated Damages
 
"" means, in connection with any optional redemption of the Notes, the excess, if any, of:
Make-Whole Amount
 
(1) the aggregate present value as of the date of such redemption of each dollar of principal being redeemed or paid and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption or accelerated payment) that would have been payable in respect of each such dollar if such redemption or accelerated payment had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semi-annual basis, such principal and interest at the Reinvestment Rate (determined on the third Business Day preceding the date a notice of redemption is given or declaration of acceleration is made) from the respective dates on which such
 
principal and interest would have been payable if such redemption or payment had not been made, over
 
(2) the aggregate principal amount of the Notes being redeemed or paid.
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
Moody's
 
"" means the aggregate cash proceeds and Cash Equivalents received by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of any Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction (including, without limitation, any cash received upon the sale or other disposition of any non-cash consideration received in any Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction), net of the () amount required to be distributed to the stockholders by Ventas, Inc. as a result of such Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction in order to maintain its status as REIT under the Code and () direct costs relating to such Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction, including, without limitation, legal, accounting and investment banking fees, and sales commissions, and any relocation expenses incurred as a result of the Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction, taxes paid or payable as a result of the Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction and, without duplication, all distributions to equity holders in respect of taxes, in each case, after taking into account any available tax credits or deductions and any tax sharing arrangements, amounts required to be applied to the repayment of Debt, other than Debt under a Credit Facility and Debt that is with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in the Indenture, and appropriate amounts to be provided by Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, as a reserve required in accordance with GAAP against any liabilities associated with such Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction and retained by Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, after such Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction, including, without limitation, pension and other post-employment benefit liabilities, liabilities related to environmental matters and liabilities under any indemnification obligations associated with such Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction; , , that any amounts remaining after adjustments, revaluations or liquidations of such reserves shall constitute Net Proceeds.
Net Proceeds
i
ii
pari passu
provided
however
 
"" means Debt:
Non-Recourse Debt
 
(1) as to which neither Ventas, Inc. nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries () provides credit support of any kind (including any undertaking, agreement or instrument that would constitute Debt), other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings, () is directly or indirectly liable as a guarantor or otherwise, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings, or () constitutes the lender;
a
b
c
 
(2) no default with respect to which (including any rights that the holders of the Debt may have to take enforcement action against an Unrestricted Subsidiary) would permit upon notice, lapse of time or both any holder of any other Debt (other than the Notes) of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to declare a default on such other Debt or cause the payment of the Debt to be accelerated or payable prior to its stated maturity; and
 
(3) as to which the lenders have been notified in writing that they will not have any recourse to the stock or assets of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings.
 
"" means a Person who is not a U.S. Person.
Non-U.S. Person
 
"" means the Guarantee by each Guarantor of the Issuers' payment obligations under this Indenture and on the Notes, executed pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture.
Note Guarantee
 
"" has the meaning assigned to it in the preamble to this Indenture. The Initial Notes, the Exchange Notes and the Additional Notes shall be treated as a single class for all purposes under this Indenture, and unless the context otherwise requires, all references to the Notes shall include the Initial Notes, the Exchange Notes and any Additional Notes.
Notes
 
"" means any principal, interest, penalties, fees, indemnifications, reimbursements, damages and other liabilities payable under the documentation governing any Debt.
Obligations
 
"" means the Offering Memorandum, dated October 8, 2004, of the Issuers in connection with the issuance and sale of the Notes.
Offering Memorandum
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Investment Officer, the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Vice-President of such Person.
Officer
 
"" means a certificate signed on behalf of the Issuers by two Officers of the Issuers, one of whom must be the principal executive officer, the principal financial officer, the principal investment officer, the treasurer or the principal accounting officer of the Issuers or a general partner of an Issuer, that meets the requirements of Section 12.05 hereof.
Officers' Certificate
 
"" means a Global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto bearing the Global Note Legend and the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of, and registered in the name of, the Depositary or its nominee that will
144A Global Note
 
be issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes sold in reliance on Rule 144A.
 
"" means an opinion from legal counsel who is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, that meets the requirements of Section 12.05 hereof. The counsel may be an employee of or counsel to the Issuers, any Subsidiary of the Issuers or the Trustee.
Opinion of Counsel
 
"" means, with respect to the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, a Person who has an account with the Depositary, Euroclear or Clearstream, respectively (and, with respect to DTC, shall include Euroclear and Clearstream).
Participant
 
"" means Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership.
Partnership
 
"" means any business activity (including Permitted Mortgage Investments) related to properties constituting or used as skilled nursing home centers, hospitals, personal healthcare facilities, assisted living facilities, independent living facilities, medical office buildings, continuum of care facilities, life care facilities, sheltered care facilities, senior housing, senior living facilities or other properties customarily constituting assets of a REIT, any other business that Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries are engaged in on the date of the Indenture and such business activities as are complementary, incidental, ancillary or related to, or are reasonable extensions of, the foregoing.
Permitted Business
plus
 
"" means:
Permitted Debt
 
(1) Permitted Refinancing Debt;
 
(2) Debt under Credit Facilities in an aggregate principal amount (including all Permitted Refinancing Debt incurred with respect thereto) not to exceed at any one time outstanding an amount equal to $450.0 million the aggregate amount of Net Proceeds of Asset Sales that have been applied since the date of the Indenture to repay Debt under Credit Facilities or Permitted Refinancing Debt incurred with respect thereto pursuant to clause (1) of the second paragraph of Section 4.11 hereof. Debt outstanding under Credit Facilities on the date of the Indenture will be deemed to have been incurred pursuant to clause (2) of this definition; and
less
 
(3) other Debt in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $100.0 million at any time outstanding.
 
"" means:
Permitted Investments
 
(1) any Investment in Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
 
(2) any Investment in Permitted Mortgage Investments in the ordinary course of business or in Cash Equivalents;
 
(3) any Investment by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries in a Person, if as a result of such Investment:
 
(a) such Person becomes a Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. or such Restricted Subsidiary and a Guarantor; or
 
(b) such Person is merged, consolidated or amalgamated with or into, or transfers or conveys substantially all of its assets to, or is liquidated into, Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries that is a Guarantor;
 
(4) any Investment made as a result of the receipt of non-cash consideration from an Asset Sale that was made pursuant to and in compliance with Section 4.11 hereof;
 
(5) any acquisition of assets to the extent made in exchange for the issuance of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of Ventas, Inc. or the Partnership;
 
(6) any Investments received in compromise of obligations of such Persons incurred in the ordinary course of trade creditors or customers that were incurred in the ordinary course of business, including pursuant to any plan of reorganization or similar arrangement upon the bankruptcy or insolvency of any trade creditor or customer;
 
(7) Hedging Obligations;
 
(8) intercompany Debt and Guarantees, in either case, to the extent permitted by Section 4.09 hereof;
 
(9) any Investment by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries acquired as a result of a transfer of assets to an Unrestricted Subsidiary in connection with a Qualified CMBS Transaction permitted by clause (9) of the definition of "Asset Sale";
 
(10) any Investment in Permitted Joint Ventures when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (10) since the date of the Indenture does not to exceed the greater of () $100.0 million or () 10% of Ventas, Inc.'s Consolidated Net Tangible Assets; and
i
ii
 
(11) other Investments in any Person having an aggregate Fair Market Value (measured on the date each such Investment was made and without giving
 
effect to subsequent changes in value), when taken together with all other Investments made pursuant to this clause (11) since the date of the Indenture does not to exceed $100.0 million.
 
"" means any entity owned 50% or more by Ventas, Inc. and/or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, if such entity () is engaged in a Permitted Business, () is designated as a Restricted Subsidiary (if more than 50% owned) and () Ventas has the right to appoint at least half of the Board of Directors or similar governing body of such entity.
Permitted Joint Venture
a
b
c
 
"" means any investment in a secured note, mortgage, deed of trust, collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial mortgage-backed securities, other secured debt securities, secured debt derivative or other debt instruments, so long as such investment relates directly or indirectly to real property that constitutes or is used as a skilled nursing home center, hospital, personal healthcare facility, assisted living facility, independent living facility, medical office building, continuum of care facility, life care facility, sheltered care facility, senior housing, senior living facility or other property customarily constituting an asset of a real estate investment trust specializing in healthcare or senior housing property.
Permitted Mortgage Investment
 
"" means any Debt of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries issued in exchange for, or the net proceeds of which are used to extend, refinance, renew, replace, defease or refund other Debt of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than intercompany Debt); , that:
Permitted Refinancing Debt
provided
however
 
(1) the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of such Permitted Refinancing Debt does not exceed the principal amount (or accreted value, if applicable) of the Debt extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded (plus all accrued interest on the Debt and the amount of all expenses and premiums incurred in connection therewith);
 
(2) such Permitted Refinancing Debt has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and has a Weighted Average Life to Maturity equal to or greater than the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of, the Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded;
 
(3) if the Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded is subordinated in right of payment to the Notes, such Permitted Refinancing Debt has a final maturity date later than the final maturity date of, and is subordinated in right of payment to, the Notes on terms at least as favorable to the holders of Notes as those contained in the documentation governing the Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded; and
 
(4) such Debt is incurred either by Ventas, Inc. or by the Restricted Subsidiary who is the obligor on the Debt being extended, refinanced, renewed, replaced, defeased or refunded.
 
"" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, limited liability company or government or other entity.
Person
 
"" means the legend set forth in Section 2.06(g)(1) to be placed on all Notes issued under this Indenture except where otherwise permitted by the provisions of this Indenture.
Private Placement Legend
 
"" means the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement and by all other amendments thereto, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference into such Prospectus.
Prospectus
 
"" means a "qualified institutional buyer" as defined in Rule 144A.
QIB
 
"" means () the CMBS Transaction and () any other transaction or series of transactions entered into by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries pursuant to which Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries sells, conveys or otherwise transfers to an Unrestricted Subsidiary, or grants a security interest in, any Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables (whether now existing or arising in the future) of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, and any assets related thereto including, without limitation, all collateral securing such Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables, all contracts and all guarantees or other obligations in respect of such Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables, proceeds of such Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables and other assets which are customarily transferred or in respect of which security interests are customarily granted in connection with asset securitization transactions involving Real Estate Assets or mortgage receivables.
Qualified CMBS Transaction
i
ii
 
"" means, as of any date of determination, Real Estate Assets that were owned by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries on or prior to April 17, 2002 and that are () reacquired by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries from an Unrestricted Subsidiary in connection with an unwinding of a Qualified CMBS Transaction and () owned by Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary as of such date of determination.
Reacquired Qualified CMBS Real Estate Assets
i
ii
 
"" means, as of any date, the real estate assets of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries on such date, on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP.
Real Estate Assets
 
"" means, with respect to () any Real Estate Asset owned as of April 17, 2002 and which continues to be owned as of the relevant date of determination by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and (ii) Reacquired Qualified CMBS Real Estate Assets, in each case, the rental revenues generated by such Real Estate Asset during the quarter ending September 30, 2004, annualized by multiplying such revenues by four, all as set forth on Schedule I attached hereto.
Real Estate Revenues
i
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2004, among the Issuers, the Guarantors party thereto and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof, as such agreement may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time and, with respect to any Additional Notes, one or more registration rights agreements among the Issuers, the Guarantors party thereto and the other parties thereto, as such agreement(s) may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, relating to rights given by the Issuers to the purchasers of Additional Notes to register such Additional Notes under the Securities Act.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
"" means any registration statement of the Issuers relating to () an offering of Exchange Notes pursuant to an Exchange Offer or () the registration for resale of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, which is filed pursuant to the provisions of the Registration Rights Agreement, in each case, including the Prospectus included therein, all amendments and supplements thereto (including post-effective amendments) and all exhibits and material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
a
b
 
"" means Regulation S promulgated under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
 
"" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend and deposited with or on behalf of the Depositary and registered in the name of the Depositary or its nominee, issued in a denomination equal to the outstanding principal amount of the Notes initially sold in reliance on Rule 903 of Regulation S.
Regulation S Global Note
 
"" means 0.50% plus the arithmetic mean of the yields under the respective heading Week Ending published in the most recent Statistical Release under Treasury Constant Maturities for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the date of the principal being redeemed or paid. If no maturity exactly corresponds to such maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to such maturity shall be calculated pursuant to the immediately preceding sentence and the Reinvestment Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated from such yields on a straight-line basis, rounding in each of such relevant periods to the nearest month. For the purpose of calculating the Reinvestment Rate, the most recent Statistical Release published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount shall be used.
Reinvestment Rate
 
"" mean properties or assets (other than current assets) that are used or useful in a Permitted Business.
Replacement Assets
 
"" when used with respect to the Trustee, means any officer within the Corporate Trust Administration of the Trustee (or any successor group of the Trustee) or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject.
Responsible Officer,
 
"" means a Definitive Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Definitive Note
 
"" means a Global Note bearing the Private Placement Legend.
Restricted Global Note
 
"" means an Investment other than a Permitted Investment.
Restricted Investment
 
"" means the 40-day distribution compliance period as defined in Regulation S.
Restricted Period
 
"" of a Person means any Subsidiary of the referenced Person that is not an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
Restricted Subsidiary
 
"" means Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144
 
"" means Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
 
"" means Rule 903 promulgated under the Securities Act.
Rule 903
 
"" means Rule 904 promulgated the Securities Act.
Rule 904
 
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. or any successor to the rating agency business thereof.
S&P
 
"" means, for any Person, Debt secured by a mortgage, lien, charge, pledge or security interest or other encumbrance on the property of such Person or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
Secured Debt
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" means any Restricted Subsidiary that would be a "significant subsidiary" as defined in Article 1, Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X, promulgated pursuant to the Securities Act, as such Regulation is in effect on the date of this Indenture.
Significant Subsidiary
 
"" means representations, warranties, covenants and indemnities entered into by Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary which are reasonably customary in Qualified CMBS Transactions by the parent or sponsoring entity.
Standard Securitization Undertakings
 
"" means that statistical release designated H.15(519) or any successor publication that is published weekly by the Federal Reserve System and that establishes annual yields on actively traded United States government securities adjusted to constant maturities, or, if such statistical release is not published at the time of any determination under the Indenture, then such other reasonably comparable index we designate.
Statistical Release
 
"" means Debt which by the terms of such Debt is subordinated in right of payment to the principal of and interest and premium, if any, on the Notes or any Guarantee thereof.
Subordinated Debt
 
"" means, for any Person, any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the Voting Stock is owned, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more other Subsidiaries of such Person.
Subsidiary
 
"" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the combined federal, state and local income taxes that would be paid by such Person if it were a Delaware corporation filing separate tax returns with respect to its Taxable Income for such Period; , , that in determining the Tax Amount, the effect thereon of any net operating loss carryforwards or other carryforwards or tax attributes, such as alternative minimum tax carryforwards, that would have arisen if such Person were a Delaware corporation shall be taken into account. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Tax Amount shall not include taxes resulting from such Person's reorganization as or change in the status to a corporation.
Tax Amount
provided
however
 
"" means, with respect to any Person for any period, the taxable income or loss of such Person for such period for federal income tax purposes; , that () all items of income, gain, loss or deduction required to be stated separately pursuant to Section 703(a)(1) of the Code shall be included in taxable income or loss, () any basis adjustment made in connection with an election under Section 754 of the Code shall be disregarded and () such taxable income shall be increased or such taxable loss shall be decreased by the amount of any interest expense incurred by such Person that is not treated as deductible for federal income tax purposes by a partner or member of such Person.
Taxable Income
provided
however
i
ii
iii
 
"" means any Person who beneficial owns 10% or more of the total voting power of the Voting Stock of Ventas, Inc.
10% Stockholder
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (15 U.S.C.  77aaa-77bbbb), as amended, as in effect on the date on which this Indenture is qualified under the TIA.
TIA
 
"" means, for any Person as of any date, the sum of () in the case of each of () Real Estate Assets that were owned as of April 17, 2002 and that continue to be owned as of such date of determination and (ii) Reacquired Qualified CMBS Real Estate Assets, () the Real Estate Revenues specified for such Real Estate Assets on Schedule I attached hereto, divided by 0.0925, plus () any annualized incremental rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Assets as a result of, arising out of or in connection with the Kindred Reset Right of the Partnership with respect to such Real Estate Assets (whether by agreement or exercise of such right or otherwise), divided by 0.0925, () the cost (original cost plus capital improvements before depreciation and amortization) of all Real Estate Assets acquired after April 17, 2002 that are owned by Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiaries as of such date of determination (other than Reacquired Qualified CMBS Real Estate Assets) and () the book value of all assets (excluding Real Estate Assets and intangibles) of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries as of such date of determination on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP. For the purpose of clause (2) of this definition, "annualized incremental rental revenue" in respect of a Real Estate Asset shall mean the increase in daily rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Asset as a result of, arising out of or in connection with the Kindred Reset Right (whether by agreement or exercise of such right or otherwise) over the daily rental revenue generated by such Real Estate Asset immediately prior to the effective date of such increase, annualizing by multiplying such daily increase by 365.
Total Assets
a
i
1
2
b
c
 
"" means, for any Person as of any date, the Total Assets of such Person and its Restricted Subsidiaries as of such date, that do not secure any portion of Secured Debt, on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP.
Total Unencumbered Assets
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Transfer Restricted Securities
 
"" means the party named as such in the preamble to this Indenture until a successor replaces it in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture and thereafter means the successor serving hereunder.
Trustee
 
"" means a permanent global Note substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto that bears the Global Note Legend and that has the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto, and that is deposited with or on behalf of and registered in the name of the Depositary, representing a series of Notes that does not bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Global Note
 
"" means one or more Definitive Notes that do not bear and are not required to bear the Private Placement Legend.
Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
"" means () Ventas Specialty I, Inc., Ventas Finance I, Inc., Ventas Specialty I, LLC, Ventas Finance I, LLC, Ventas Kansas City I, LLC,
Unrestricted Subsidiary
i
 
Ventas Farmington Hills, LLC, Ventas Belleville, LLC, Ventas Springfield/Findlay, LLC, Ventas Regency Medical Park I, LLC, ET Heritage Andover Finance, Inc., ET Sub-Cabot Park, L.L.C., ET Sub-Vernon Court, L.L.C., ET Sub-Cleveland Circle, L.L.C., ET Sub-Heritage Andover, L.L.C., ET DCMH Finance, Inc., ET POBI Finance, Inc., ET Belvedere Finance, Inc., ET DCMH Finance, L.L.C., ET POBI Finance, L.L.C., ET Belvedere Finance, L.L.C., ET Sub-DCMH Limited Partnership, L.L.P., ET Sub-POB I Limited Partnership, L.L.P. ET Sub-Belvedere Limited Partnership, L.L.P. and () any Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. or any successor to any of them, other than the Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, that is designated by the Board of Directors as an Unrestricted Subsidiary pursuant to a board resolution, but only to the extent that such Subsidiary:
ii
 
(1) has no Debt other than Non-Recourse Debt;
 
(2) is not party to any agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding with Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries unless the terms of any such agreement, contract, arrangement or understanding are no less favorable to Ventas, Inc. or such Restricted Subsidiary than those that might be obtained at the time from Persons who are not Affiliates of Ventas, Inc.;
 
(3) is a Person with respect to which neither Ventas, Inc. nor any of its Restricted Subsidiaries has any direct or indirect obligation () to subscribe for additional Equity Interests or () to maintain or preserve such Person's financial condition or to cause such Person to achieve any specified levels of operating results;
a
b
 
(4) has not guaranteed or otherwise directly or indirectly provided credit support for any Debt of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, other than pursuant to Standard Securitization Undertakings; and
 
(5) has at least one director on its Board of Directors that is not a director or executive officer of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries and has at least one executive officer that is not a director or executive officer of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
Any designation of a Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. as an Unrestricted Subsidiary will be evidenced to the Trustee by filing with the Trustee a certified copy of the board resolution giving effect to such designation and an Officers' Certificate certifying that such designation complied with the preceding conditions and was permitted by Section 4.07 hereof. If, at any time, any Unrestricted Subsidiary would fail to meet the preceding requirements as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, it will thereafter cease to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary for purposes of the Indenture and any Debt of such Subsidiary will be deemed to be incurred by a Restricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc., as of such date and, if such Debt
 
is not permitted to be incurred as of such date by Section 4.09 hereof, Ventas, Inc. will be in default of such section.
 
"" means, for any Person, any Debt of such Person or its Restricted Subsidiaries which is not Secured Debt.
Unsecured Debt
 
"" means a U.S. Person as defined in Rule 902(k) under the Securities Act.
U.S. Person
 
"" of any Person as of any date means the Capital Stock of such Person that is at the time entitled to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of such Person.
Voting Stock
 
"" means, when applied to any Debt at any date, the number of years obtained by dividing:
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
 
(1) the sum of the products obtained by multiplying () the amount of each then remaining installment, sinking fund, serial maturity or other required payments of principal, including payment at final maturity, in respect of the Debt, by () the number of years (calculated to the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between such date and the making of such payment; by
a
b
 
(2) the then outstanding principal amount of such Debt.
 
Section 1.02 Other Definitions.
 
 
 
Section 1.03 Incorporation by Reference of Trust Indenture Act.
 
Whenever this Indenture refers to a provision of the TIA, the provision is incorporated by reference in and made a part of this Indenture.
 
The following TIA terms used in this Indenture have the following meanings:
 
"" means the Notes;
indenture securities
 
"" means a Holder of a Note;
indenture security holder
 
"" means this Indenture;
indenture to be qualified
 
"" or "" means the Trustee; and
indenture trustee
institutional trustee
 
"" on the Notes and the Note Guarantees means the Issuers and the Guarantors, respectively, and any successor obligor upon the Notes and the Note Guarantees, respectively.
obligor
 
All other terms used in this Indenture that are defined by the TIA, defined by TIA reference to another statute or defined by Commission rule under the TIA have the meanings so assigned to them.
 
Section 1.04 Rules of Construction.
 
Unless the context otherwise requires:
 
(1) a term has the meaning assigned to it;
 
(2) an accounting term not otherwise defined has the meaning assigned to it in accordance with GAAP;
 
(3) "or" is not exclusive;
 
(4) words in the singular include the plural, and in the plural include the singular;
 
(5) "will" shall be interpreted to express a command;
 
(6) provisions apply to successive events and transactions; and
 
(7) references to sections of or rules under the Securities Act will be deemed to include substitute, replacement of successor sections or rules adopted by the Commission from time to time.
 
 
 
Section 2.01 Form and Dating.
 
(a) The Notes and the Trustee's certificate of authentication will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A hereto. The Notes may have notations, legends or endorsements required by law, stock exchange rule or usage. Each Note will be dated the date of its authentication. The Notes shall be in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof.
General.
 
The terms and provisions contained in the Notes will constitute, and are hereby expressly made, a part of this Indenture and the Issuers, the Guarantors and the Trustee, by their execution and delivery of this Indenture, expressly agree to such terms and provisions and to be bound thereby. However, to the extent any provision of any Note conflicts with the express provisions of this Indenture, the provisions of this Indenture shall govern and be controlling.
 
(b) Notes issued in global form will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (including the Global Note Legend thereon and the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). Notes issued in definitive form will be substantially in the form of Exhibit A attached hereto (but without the Global Note Legend thereon and without the "Schedule of Exchanges of Interests in the Global Note" attached thereto). Each Global Note will represent such of the outstanding Notes as will be specified therein and each shall provide that it represents the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby may from time to time be reduced or increased, as appropriate, to reflect exchanges and redemptions. Any endorsement of a Global Note to reflect the amount of any increase or decrease in the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes represented thereby will be made by the Trustee or the Custodian, at the direction of the Trustee, in accordance with instructions given by the Holder thereof as required by Section 2.06 hereof.
Global Notes.
 
Section 2.02 Execution and Authentication.
 
Two Officers must sign the Notes for each of the Issuers by manual or facsimile signature.
 
If an Officer whose signature is on a Note no longer holds that office at the time a Note is authenticated, the Note will nevertheless be valid.
 
A Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee. The signature will be conclusive evidence that the Note has been authenticated under this Indenture.
 
The Trustee will, upon receipt of a written order of the Issuers signed by two Officers (an ""), authenticate Notes for original issue up to the aggregate principal amount set forth in such Authentication Order. The aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding at any time may not exceed the aggregate amount of Notes authenticated for original issue pursuant to all Authentication Orders issued by the Issuers, except as provided in Section 2.07 hereof.
Authentication Order
 
The Trustee may appoint an authenticating agent acceptable to the Issuers to authenticate Notes. An authenticating agent may authenticate Notes whenever the Trustee may do so. Each reference in this Indenture to authentication by the Trustee includes authentication by such agent. An authenticating agent has the same rights as an Agent to deal with Holders or an Affiliate of the Issuers.
 
Section 2.03 Registrar and Paying Agent.
 
The Issuers will maintain an office or agency where Notes may be presented for registration of transfer or for exchange ("") and an office or agency where Notes may be presented for payment (""). The Registrar will keep a register of the Notes and of their transfer and exchange. The Issuers may appoint one or more co-registrars and one or more additional paying agents. The term "Registrar" includes any co-registrar and the term "Paying Agent" includes any additional paying agent. The Issuers may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Issuers will notify the Trustee in writing of the name and address of any Agent not a party to this Indenture. If the Issuers fail to appoint or maintain another entity as Registrar or Paying Agent, the Trustee shall act as such. The Issuers or any of their Subsidiaries may act as Paying Agent or Registrar.
Registrar
Paying Agent
 
The Issuers initially appoint The Depository Trust Company ("") to act as Depositary with respect to the Global Notes.
DTC
 
The Issuers initially appoint the Trustee to act as the Registrar and Paying Agent and to act as Custodian with respect to the Global Notes.
 
Section 2.04 Paying Agent to Hold Money in Trust.
 
The Issuers will require each Paying Agent other than the Trustee to agree in writing that the Paying Agent will hold in trust for the benefit of Holders or the Trustee all money held by the Paying Agent for the payment of principal, premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest on the Notes, and will notify the Trustee of any default by the Issuers in making any such payment. While any such default continues, the Trustee may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. The Issuers at any time may require a Paying Agent to pay all money held by it to the Trustee. Upon payment over to the Trustee, the Paying Agent (if other than an Issuer or a Subsidiary of any Issuer) will have no further liability for the money. If an Issuer or a Subsidiary of an Issuer acts as Paying Agent, it will segregate and hold in a separate trust fund for the benefit of the Holders all money held by it as Paying Agent. Upon any bankruptcy or reorganization proceedings relating to the Issuers, the Trustee will serve as Paying Agent for the Notes.
 
Section 2.05 Holder Lists.
 
The Trustee will preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of all Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Issuers will furnish to the Trustee at least seven Business Days before each interest payment date and at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, a list in such form and as of such date as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Notes and the Issuers shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a).
 
Section 2.06 Transfer and Exchange.
 
(a) Transfer and Exchange of Global Notes. A Global Note may not be transferred as a whole except by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or to another nominee of the Depositary, or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary. All Global Notes will be exchanged by the Issuers for Definitive Notes if:
 
(1) the Issuers deliver to the Trustee notice from the Depositary that it is unwilling or unable to continue to act as Depositary or that it is no longer a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and, in either case, a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Issuers within 120 days after the date of such notice from the Depositary; or
 
(2) the Issuers in their sole discretion determine that the Global Notes (in whole but not in part) should be exchanged for Definitive Notes and delivers a written notice to such effect to the Trustee.
 
Upon the occurrence of either of the preceding events in subparagraph (1) or (2) above, Definitive Notes shall be issued in such names as the Depositary shall instruct the Trustee. Global Notes also may be exchanged or replaced, in whole or in part, as provided in Sections 2.07 and 2.10 hereof. Every Note authenticated and delivered in exchange for, or in lieu of, a Global Note or any portion thereof, pursuant to this Section 2.06 or Section 2.07 or 2.10 hereof, shall be authenticated and delivered in the form of, and shall be, a Global Note. A Global Note may not be exchanged for another Note other than as provided in this Section 2.06(a), however, beneficial interests in a Global Note may be transferred and exchanged as provided in Section 2.06(b), (c) or (f) hereof.
 
(b) The transfer and exchange of beneficial interests in the Global Notes will be effected through the Depositary, in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture and the Applicable Procedures. Beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes will be subject to restrictions on transfer comparable to those set forth herein to the extent required by the Securities Act. Transfers of beneficial interests in the Global Notes also will require compliance with either subparagraph (1) or (2) below, as applicable, as well as one or more of the other following subparagraphs, as applicable:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in the Global Notes.
 
(1) Beneficial interests in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the same Restricted Global Note in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the Private Placement Legend; , that prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, transfers of beneficial interests in the Regulation S Global Note may not be made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than the Initial Purchasers). Beneficial interests in any Unrestricted Global Note may be transferred to Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note. No written orders or instructions shall be required to be delivered to the Registrar to effect the transfers described in this Section 2.06(b)(1).
Transfer of Beneficial Interests in the Same Global Note.
provided
however
 
(2) In connection with all transfers and exchanges of beneficial interests that are not subject to Section 2.06(b)(1) above, the transferor of such beneficial interest must deliver to the Registrar either:
All Other Transfers and Exchanges of Beneficial Interests in Global Notes.
 
(A) both:
 
(i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to credit or cause to be credited a beneficial interest in another Global Note in an
 
amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
(ii) instructions given in accordance with the Applicable Procedures containing information regarding the Participant account to be credited with such increase; or
 
(B) both:
 
(i) a written order from a Participant or an Indirect Participant given to the Depositary in accordance with the Applicable Procedures directing the Depositary to cause to be issued a Definitive Note in an amount equal to the beneficial interest to be transferred or exchanged; and
 
(ii) instructions given by the Depositary to the Registrar containing information regarding the Person in whose name such Definitive Note shall be registered to effect the transfer or exchange referred to in (1) above. Upon consummation of an Exchange Offer by the Issuers in accordance with Section 2.06(f) hereof, the requirements of this Section 2.06(b)(2) shall be deemed to have been satisfied upon receipt by the Registrar of the instructions contained in the Letter of Transmittal delivered by the Holder of such beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes. Upon satisfaction of all of the requirements for transfer or exchange of beneficial interests in Global Notes contained in this Indenture and the Notes or otherwise applicable under the Securities Act, the Trustee shall adjust the principal amount of the relevant Global Note(s) pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof.
 
(3) A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Restricted Global Note if the transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(2) above and the Registrar receives the following:
Transfer of Beneficial Interests to Another Restricted Global Note.
 
(A) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(B) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note, then the transferor
 
must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
 
(C) if the transferee will take delivery in the form of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Note, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable.
 
(4) A beneficial interest in any Restricted Global Note may be exchanged by any holder thereof for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transferred to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note if the exchange or transfer complies with the requirements of Section 2.06(b)(2) above and:
Transfer and Exchange of Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note.
 
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of the beneficial interest to be transferred, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not () a Broker-Dealer, () a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or () a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Issuers;
i
ii
iii
 
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(a) thereof; or
 
(ii) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate
 
from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Issuers to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
If any such transfer is effected pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Issuers shall issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee shall authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of beneficial interests transferred pursuant to subparagraph (B) or (D) above.
 
(c)
Transfer or Exchange of Beneficial Interests for Definitive Notes.
 
(1) If any holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
 
(A) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Restricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(a) thereof;
 
(B) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(C) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
(D) if such beneficial interest is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in
 
accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
(E) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable; or
 
(F) if such beneficial interest is being transferred to the Issuers or any of their Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof,
 
the Trustee shall cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Issuers shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Restricted Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(1) shall be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest shall instruct the Registrar through instructions from the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee shall deliver such Restricted Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are so registered. Any Restricted Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(1) shall bear the Private Placement Legend and shall be subject to all restrictions on transfer contained therein.
 
(2) A holder of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note may exchange such beneficial interest for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or may transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note only if:
Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the holder of such beneficial interest, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not () a Broker-Dealer, () a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or () a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Issuers;
i
ii
iii
 
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(b) thereof; or
 
(ii) if the holder of such beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note proposes to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note that does not bear the Private Placement Legend, a certificate from such holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Issuers to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
(3) If any holder of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note proposes to exchange such beneficial interest for a Definitive Note or to transfer such beneficial interest to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a Definitive Note, then, upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 2.06(b)(2) hereof, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Global Note to be reduced accordingly pursuant to Section 2.06(h) hereof, and the Issuers will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Person designated in the instructions a Definitive Note in the appropriate principal amount. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(3) will be registered in such name or names and in such authorized denomination or denominations as the holder of such beneficial interest requests through instructions to the Registrar from or through the Depositary and the Participant or Indirect Participant. The Trustee will deliver such Definitive Notes to the Persons in whose names such Notes are
Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
so registered. Any Definitive Note issued in exchange for a beneficial interest pursuant to this Section 2.06(c)(3) will not bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
(d)
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Beneficial Interests.
 
(1) . If any Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note or to transfer such Restricted Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, then, upon receipt by the Registrar of the following documentation:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
 
(A) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Note proposes to exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (2)(b) thereof;
 
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof;
 
(D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
(E) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (B) through (D) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3) thereof, if applicable;
 
(F) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Issuers or any of their Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof; or
 
(G) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, a
 
certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(c) thereof, the Trustee will cancel the Restricted Definitive Note, increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of, in the case of clause (A) above, the appropriate Restricted Global Note, in the case of clause (B) above, the 144A Global Note, in the case of clause (C) above, the Regulation S Global Note, and in all other cases, the IAI Global Note.
 
(2) A Holder of a Restricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Restricted Definitive Note to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note only if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
 
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not () a Broker-Dealer, () a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or () a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Issuers;
i
ii
iii
 
(B) such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C) such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i) if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(c) thereof; or
 
(ii) if the Holder of such Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in the Unrestricted Global Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests or if the Applicable Procedures so require, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Issuers to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
Upon satisfaction of the conditions of any of the subparagraphs in this Section 2.06(d)(2), the Trustee will cancel the Definitive Notes and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of the Unrestricted Global Note.
 
(3) A Holder of an Unrestricted Definitive Note may exchange such Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or transfer such Definitive Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note at any time. Upon receipt of a request for such an exchange or transfer, the Trustee will cancel the applicable Unrestricted Definitive Note and increase or cause to be increased the aggregate principal amount of one of the Unrestricted Global Notes.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Beneficial Interests in Unrestricted Global Notes.
 
If any such exchange or transfer from a Definitive Note to a beneficial interest is effected pursuant to subparagraphs (2)(B), (2)(D) or (3) above at a time when an Unrestricted Global Note has not yet been issued, the Issuers will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee will authenticate one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of Definitive Notes so transferred.
 
(e) Upon request by a Holder of Definitive Notes and such Holder's compliance with the provisions of this Section 2.06(e), the Registrar will register the transfer or exchange of Definitive Notes. Prior to such registration of transfer or exchange, the requesting Holder must present or surrender to the Registrar the Definitive Notes duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instruction of transfer in form satisfactory to the Registrar duly executed by such Holder or by its attorney, duly authorized in writing. In addition, the requesting Holder must provide any additional certifications, documents and information, as applicable, required pursuant to the following provisions of this Section 2.06(e).
Transfer and Exchange of Definitive Notes for Definitive Notes.
 
(1) Any Restricted Definitive Note may be transferred to and registered in the name of Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of a Restricted Definitive Note if the Registrar receives the following:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Restricted Definitive Notes.
 
(A) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a QIB in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (1) thereof;
 
(B) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to a Non-U.S. Person in an offshore transaction in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904, then the transferor must deliver a certificate in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (2) thereof; and
 
(C) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act in accordance with Rule 144, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(a) thereof;
 
(D) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to an Institutional Accredited Investor in reliance on an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than those listed in subparagraphs (A) through (C) above, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications, certificates and Opinion of Counsel required by item (3)(d) thereof, if applicable; or
 
(E) if such Restricted Definitive Note is being transferred to the Issuers or any of their Subsidiaries, a certificate to the effect set forth in Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (3)(b) thereof.
 
(2) Any Restricted Definitive Note may be exchanged by the Holder thereof for an Unrestricted Definitive Note or transferred to a Person or Persons who take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note if:
Restricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
(A) such exchange or transfer is effected pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement and the Holder, in the case of an exchange, or the transferee, in the case of a transfer, certifies in the applicable Letter of Transmittal that it is not () a Broker-Dealer, () a Person participating in the distribution of the Exchange Notes or () a Person who is an affiliate (as defined in Rule 144) of the Issuers;
i
ii
iii
 
(B) any such transfer is effected pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement;
 
(C) any such transfer is effected by a Broker-Dealer pursuant to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement; or
 
(D) the Registrar receives the following:
 
(i) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to exchange such Notes for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit C hereto, including the certifications in item (1)(d) thereof; or
 
(ii) if the Holder of such Restricted Definitive Notes proposes to transfer such Notes to a Person who shall take delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note, a certificate from such Holder in the form of Exhibit B hereto, including the certifications in item (4) thereof;
 
and, in each such case set forth in this subparagraph (D), if the Registrar so requests, an Opinion of Counsel in form reasonably acceptable to the Registrar and the Issuers to the effect that such exchange or transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act and that the restrictions on transfer contained herein and in the Private Placement Legend are no longer required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act.
 
(3) A Holder of Unrestricted Definitive Notes may transfer such Notes to a Person who takes delivery thereof in the form of an Unrestricted Definitive Note. Upon receipt of a request to register such a transfer, the Registrar shall register the Unrestricted Definitive Notes pursuant to the instructions from the Holder thereof.
Unrestricted Definitive Notes to Unrestricted Definitive Notes.
 
(f) Upon the occurrence of the Exchange Offer in accordance with the Registration Rights Agreement, the Issuers will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 hereof, the Trustee will authenticate:
Exchange Offer.
 
(1) one or more Unrestricted Global Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interests in the Restricted Global Notes tendered into the Exchange Offer by Persons that certify in the applicable Letters of Transmittal that () they are not Broker-Dealers, () they are not participating in a distribution of the Exchange Notes and () they are not affiliates (as defined in Rule 144) of the Issuers; and
A
B
C
 
(2) Unrestricted Definitive Notes in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Restricted Definitive Notes accepted for exchange in the Exchange Offer.
 
Concurrently with the issuance of such Notes, the Trustee will cause the aggregate principal amount of the applicable Restricted Global Notes to be reduced accordingly, and the Issuers will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver to the Persons designated by the Holders of Definitive Notes so accepted Unrestricted Definitive Notes in the appropriate principal amount.
 
(g) The following legends will appear on the face of all Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued under this Indenture unless specifically stated otherwise in the applicable provisions of this Indenture.
Legends.
 
(1)
Private Placement Legend.
 
(A) Except as permitted by subparagraph (B) below, each Global Note and each Definitive Note (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) shall bear the legend in substantially the following form:
 
"THE NOTES EVIDENCED HEREBY HAVE NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "") OR ANY STATE SECURITIES LAWS AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT ()() TO A PERSON WHO THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OF FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, () IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION COMPLYING WITH RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, () TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FOR THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT PURSUANT TO RULE 144 THEREUNDER (IF AVAILABLE) OR () PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT IN THE CASE OF EACH OF (1) THROUGH (4) ABOVE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ALL APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF THE STATES OF THE UNITED STATES AND () THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THE NOTE FROM IT OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS REFERRED TO IN (A) ABOVE."
SECURITIES ACT
A
1
2
3
4
B
 
(B) Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Global Note or Definitive Note issued pursuant to subparagraphs (b)(4), (c)(2), (c)(3),
 
(d)(2), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(3) or (f) of this Section 2.06 (and all Notes issued in exchange therefor or substitution thereof) will not bear the Private Placement Legend.
 
(2) Each Global Note will bear a legend in substantially the following form:
Global Note Legend.
 
"THIS GLOBAL NOTE IS HELD BY THE DEPOSITARY (AS DEFINED IN THE INDENTURE GOVERNING THIS NOTE) OR ITS NOMINEE IN CUSTODY FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE BENEFICIAL OWNERS HEREOF, AND IS NOT TRANSFERABLE TO ANY PERSON UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES EXCEPT THAT () THE TRUSTEE MAY MAKE SUCH NOTATIONS HEREON AS MAY BE REQUIRED PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06 OF THE INDENTURE, () THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE EXCHANGED IN WHOLE BUT NOT IN PART PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.06(a) OF THE INDENTURE, () THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE DELIVERED TO THE TRUSTEE FOR CANCELLATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 2.11 OF THE INDENTURE AND () THIS GLOBAL NOTE MAY BE TRANSFERRED TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY WITH THE PRIOR WRITTEN CONSENT OF THE ISSUERS.
1
2
3
4
 
UNLESS AND UNTIL IT IS EXCHANGED IN WHOLE OR IN PART FOR NOTES IN DEFINITIVE FORM, THIS NOTE MAY NOT BE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT AS A WHOLE BY THE DEPOSITARY TO A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY A NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY TO THE DEPOSITARY OR ANOTHER NOMINEE OF THE DEPOSITARY OR BY THE DEPOSITARY OR ANY SUCH NOMINEE TO A SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY OR A NOMINEE OF SUCH SUCCESSOR DEPOSITARY. UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) (""), TO THE ISSUERS OR THEIR AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC (AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER ENTITY AS MAY BE REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL INASMUCH AS THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN."
DTC
 
(h) At such time as all beneficial interests in a particular Global Note have been exchanged for Definitive Notes or a particular Global Note has been redeemed, repurchased or canceled in whole and not in part, each such Global Note will be returned to or retained and canceled by the Trustee in accordance with Section 2.11 hereof. At any time prior to such cancellation, if any
Cancellation and/or Adjustment of Global Notes.
 
beneficial interest in a Global Note is exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note or for Definitive Notes, the principal amount of Notes represented by such Global Note will be reduced accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such reduction; and if the beneficial interest is being exchanged for or transferred to a Person who will take delivery thereof in the form of a beneficial interest in another Global Note, such other Global Note will be increased accordingly and an endorsement will be made on such Global Note by the Trustee or by the Depositary at the direction of the Trustee to reflect such increase.
 
(i)
General Provisions Relating to Transfers and Exchanges.
 
(1) To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Issuers will execute and the Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes upon receipt of an Authentication Order in accordance with Section 2.02 or at the Registrar's request.
 
(2) No service charge will be made to a Holder of a Global Note or to a Holder of a Definitive Note for any registration of transfer or exchange, but the Issuers may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith (other than any such transfer taxes or similar governmental charge payable upon exchange or transfer pursuant to Sections 2.10, 3.06, 3.09, 4.11, 4.14 and 9.05 hereof). The Registrar will not be required to register the transfer of or exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part.
 
(3) All Global Notes and Definitive Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Global Notes or Definitive Notes will be the valid obligations of the Issuers, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Global Notes or Definitive Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
(4) The Issuers will not be required:
 
(A) to issue, to register the transfer of or to exchange any Notes during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of any selection of Notes for redemption under Section 3.02 hereof and ending at the close of business on the day of selection;
 
(B) to register the transfer of or to exchange any Note selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part; or
 
(C) to register the transfer of or to exchange a Note between a record date and the next succeeding interest payment date.
 
(5) Prior to due presentment for the registration of a transfer of any Note, the Trustee, any Agent and the Issuers may deem and treat the Person in whose name any Note is registered as the absolute owner of such Note for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and interest on such Notes and for all other purposes, and none of the Trustee, any Agent or the Issuers shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
(6) The Trustee will authenticate Global Notes and Definitive Notes in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.02 hereof.
 
(7) All certifications, certificates and Opinions of Counsel required to be submitted to the Registrar or the Issuers pursuant to this Section 2.06 to effect a registration of transfer or exchange may be submitted by facsimile.
 
Section 2.07 Replacement Notes.
 
If any mutilated Note is surrendered to the Trustee or the Issuers and the Trustee receives evidence to its satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Note, the Issuers will issue and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, will authenticate a replacement Note if the Trustee's requirements are met. If required by the Trustee or the Issuers, an indemnity bond must be supplied by the Holder that is sufficient in the judgment of the Trustee and the Issuers to protect the Issuers, the Trustee, any Agent and any authenticating agent from any loss that any of them may suffer if a Note is replaced. The Issuers may charge for their expenses in replacing a Note.
 
Every replacement Note is an additional obligation of the Issuers and will be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with all other Notes duly issued hereunder.
 
Section 2.08 Outstanding Notes.
 
The Notes outstanding at any time are all the Notes authenticated by the Trustee except for those canceled by it, those delivered to it for cancellation, those reductions in the interest in a Global Note effected by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions hereof, and those described in this Section as not outstanding. Except as set forth in Section 2.09 hereof, a Note does not cease to be outstanding because the Issuers or an Affiliate of the Issuers hold the Note.
 
If a Note is replaced pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding unless the Trustee receives proof satisfactory to it that the replaced Note is held by a bona fide purchaser.
 
If the principal amount of any Note is considered paid under Section 4.01 or 11.01 hereof, it ceases to be outstanding and interest on it ceases to accrue.
 
If the Paying Agent (other than the Issuers, a Subsidiary or an Affiliate of any thereof) holds, on a redemption date or maturity date, money sufficient to pay Notes payable on that date, then on and after that date such Notes will be deemed to be no longer outstanding and will cease to accrue interest.
 
Section 2.09 Treasury Notes.
 
In determining whether the Holders of the required principal amount of Notes have concurred in any direction, waiver or consent, Notes owned by the Issuers, or by any Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Issuers, will be considered as though not outstanding, except that for the purposes of determining whether the Trustee will be protected in relying on any such direction, waiver or consent, only Notes that the Trustee knows are so owned will be so disregarded.
 
Section 2.10 Temporary Notes.
 
Until certificates representing Notes are ready for delivery, the Issuers may prepare and the Trustee, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, will authenticate temporary Notes. Temporary Notes will be substantially in the form of certificated Notes but may have variations that the Issuers consider appropriate for temporary Notes and as may be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. Without unreasonable delay, the Issuers will prepare and the Trustee will authenticate definitive Notes in exchange for temporary Notes.
 
Holders of temporary Notes will be entitled to all of the benefits of this Indenture.
 
Section 2.11 Cancellation.
 
The Issuers at any time may deliver Notes to the Trustee for cancellation. The Registrar and Paying Agent will forward to the Trustee any Notes surrendered to them for registration of transfer, exchange or payment. The Trustee and no one else will cancel all Notes surrendered for registration of transfer, exchange, payment, replacement or cancellation and will dispose of canceled Notes (subject to the record retention requirement of the Exchange Act). The Issuers may not issue new Notes to replace Notes that they have paid or that have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, except for replacement Notes for mutilated Notes pursuant to Section 2.07 hereof.
 
Section 2.12 Defaulted Interest.
 
If the Issuers default in a payment of interest on the Notes, they will pay the defaulted interest in any lawful manner plus, to the extent lawful, interest payable on the defaulted interest, to the Persons who are Holders on a subsequent special record date, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof. The Issuers will notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of defaulted interest proposed to be paid on each Note and the date of the proposed payment. The Issuers will fix or cause to be fixed each such special record date and payment date, that no such special record date may be less than 10 days prior to the related payment date for such defaulted interest. At least 15 days before the special record date, the Issuers (or, upon the written request of the Issuers, the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Issuers) will mail or cause to be mailed to Holders a notice that states the special record date, the related payment date and the amount of such interest to be paid.
provided
 
 
 
Section 3.01 Notices to Trustee.
 
If the Issuers elect to redeem Notes pursuant to the optional redemption provisions of Section 3.07 hereof, they must furnish to the Trustee, at least 45 days (or such shorter period as is satisfactory to the Trustee) before a redemption date, an Officers' Certificate setting forth:
 
(1) the clause of this Indenture pursuant to which the redemption shall occur;
 
(2) the redemption date;
 
(3) the principal amount of Notes to be redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date; and
 
(4) the redemption price, including the Make-Whole Amount, if applicable.
 
Section 3.02 Selection of Notes to Be Redeemed.
 
If less than all of the Notes are to be redeemed or purchased in an offer to purchase at any time, the Trustee will select Notes for redemption or purchase as follows:
 
(1) if the Notes are listed on any national securities exchange, in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange on which the Notes are listed; or
 
(2) if the Notes are not listed on any national securities exchange, on a basis, by lot or by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate.
pro rata
 
In the event of partial redemption by lot, the particular Notes to be redeemed will be selected, unless otherwise provided herein, not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date by the Trustee from the outstanding Notes not previously called for redemption.
 
The Trustee will promptly notify the Issuers in writing of the Notes selected for redemption or purchase and, in the case of any Note selected for partial redemption or purchase, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed or purchased. Notes and portions of Notes selected will be in amounts of $1,000 or whole multiples of $1,000; except that if all of the Notes of a Holder are to be redeemed or purchased, the entire outstanding amount of Notes held by such Holder, even if not a multiple of $1,000, shall be redeemed or purchased. Except as provided in the preceding sentence, provisions of this Indenture that apply to Notes called for redemption or purchase also apply to portions of Notes called for redemption or purchase.
 
Section 3.03 Notice of Redemption.
 
At least 30 days but not more than 60 days before a redemption date, the Issuers will mail or cause to be mailed, by first class mail, a notice of redemption to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address, except that redemption notices may be mailed more than 60 days prior to a redemption date if the notice is issued in connection with a defeasance of the Notes or a satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture pursuant to Article 8 or 11 of this Indenture.
 
The notice will identify the Notes to be redeemed and will state:
 
(1) the redemption date;
 
(2) the redemption price, including the accrued interest to the redemption date and the Make-Whole Amount, if applicable;
 
(3) if any Note is being redeemed in part, the portion of the principal amount of such Note to be redeemed and that, after the redemption date upon surrender of such Note, a new Note or Notes in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion will be issued upon cancellation of the original Note;
 
(4) the name and address of the Paying Agent;
 
(5) that Notes called for redemption must be surrendered to the Paying Agent to collect the redemption price;
 
(6) that, unless the Issuers default in making such redemption payment, interest on Notes called for redemption ceases to accrue on and after the redemption date;
 
(7) the paragraph of the Notes and/or Section of this Indenture pursuant to which the Notes called for redemption are being redeemed; and
 
(8) that no representation is made as to the correctness or accuracy of the CUSIP number, if any, listed in such notice or printed on the Notes.
 
At the Issuers' request, the Trustee will give the notice of redemption in the Issuers' name and at their expense; , , that the Issuers have delivered to the Trustee, at least 45 days (or such shorter period of time as is satisfactory to the Trustee) prior to the redemption date, an Officers' Certificate requesting that the Trustee give such notice and setting forth the information to be stated in such notice as provided in the preceding paragraph.
provided
however
 
Section 3.04 Effect of Notice of Redemption.
 
Once notice of redemption is mailed in accordance with Section 3.03 hereof, Notes called for redemption become irrevocably due and payable on the redemption date at the redemption price. A notice of redemption may not be conditional.
 
Section 3.05 Deposit of Redemption or Purchase Price.
 
On the redemption or purchase date, the Issuers will deposit with the Trustee or with the Paying Agent money sufficient to pay the redemption or purchase price of and accrued interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on all Notes to be redeemed or purchased on that date. The Trustee or the Paying Agent will promptly return to the Issuers any money deposited with the Trustee or the Paying Agent by the Issuers in excess of the amounts necessary to pay the redemption or purchase price of, and accrued interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on, all Notes to be redeemed or purchased.
 
If the Issuers comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, on and after the redemption or purchase date, interest will cease to accrue on the Notes or the portions of Notes called for redemption or purchase. If a Note is redeemed or purchased on or after an interest record date but on or prior to the related interest payment date, then any accrued and unpaid interest shall be paid to the Person in whose name such Note was registered at the close of business on such record date. If any Note called for redemption or purchase is not so paid upon surrender for redemption or purchase because of the failure of the Issuers to comply with the preceding paragraph, interest shall be paid on the unpaid principal, from the redemption or purchase date until such principal is paid, and to the extent lawful on any interest not paid on such unpaid principal, in each case at the rate provided in the Notes and in Section 4.01 hereof.
 
Section 3.06 Notes Redeemed or Purchased in Part.
 
Upon surrender of a Note that is redeemed or purchased in part, the Issuers will issue and, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, the Trustee will authenticate for the Holder at the expense of the Issuers a new Note equal in principal amount to the unredeemed or unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered.
 
Section 3.07 Optional Redemption.
 
(a) The Issuers may redeem the Notes at any time prior to October 15, 2009, at their option, in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the sum of () the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed, () accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date and () the Make-Whole Amount, if any, with respect to the Notes.
i
ii
iii
 
The Issuers may also redeem the Notes at any time on or after October 15, 2009, at their option, in whole or from time to time in part, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount thereof) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the redemption date, if redeemed during the 12-month period beginning on October 15 of each of the years indicated below:
 
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (a) of this Section 3.07, at any time prior to October 15, 2007, the Issuers may redeem, at their option, on any one or more occasions (each, an ""), with all or a portion of the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings, up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes originally issued under this Indenture at a redemption price equal to 106.625% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the redemption date, :
Equity Claw-back Redemption
provided that
 
(1) at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes originally issued under this Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of each such redemption; and
 
(2) the redemption occurs within 60 days of the consummation of any such Equity Offering.
 
(c) Any redemption pursuant to this Section 3.07 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 through 3.06 hereof.
 
Section 3.08 Mandatory Redemption.
 
The Issuers are not required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes.
 
Section 3.09 Offer to Purchase by Application of Excess Proceeds.
 
In the event that, pursuant to Section 4.11 hereof, the Issuers are required to commence an offer to all Holders to purchase Notes (an "" or "," as the case may be), they will follow the procedures specified below.
Asset Sale Offer
Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer
 
The Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, shall be made to all Holders and all holders of other Debt that is with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales and assets. The Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, will remain open for a period of at least 20 Business Days following its commencement and not more than 30 Business Days, except to the extent that a longer period is required by applicable law (the ""). No later than three Business Days after the termination of the Offer Period (the ""), the Issuers will apply all Excess Proceeds (the "") to the purchase of Notes and such other Debt (on a basis, if applicable) or, if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes and other Debt tendered in response to the Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be. Payment for any Notes so purchased will be made in the same manner as interest payments are made.
pari passu
Offer Period
Purchase Date
Offer Amount
pari passu
pro rata
 
If the Purchase Date is on or after an interest record date and on or before the related interest payment date, any accrued and unpaid interest, and Liquidated Damages, if any, will be paid to the Person in whose name a Note is registered at the close of business on such record date, and no additional interest will be payable to Holders who tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer or the Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be.
 
Upon the commencement of an Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, the Issuers will send, by first class mail, a notice to the Trustee and each of the Holders, with a copy to the Trustee. The notice will contain all instructions and materials necessary to enable such Holders to tender Notes pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be. The notice, which will govern the terms of the Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, will state:
 
(1) that the Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, is being made pursuant to this Section 3.09 and Section 4.11 hereof and the length of time such offer will remain open;
 
(2) the Offer Amount, the purchase price and the Purchase Date;
 
(3) that any Note not tendered or accepted for payment will continue to accrue interest;
 
(4) that, unless the Issuers default in making such payment, any Note accepted for payment pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, will cease to accrue interest after the Purchase Date;
 
(5) that Holders electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, may elect to have Notes purchased in integral multiples of $1,000 only;
 
(6) that Holders electing to have a Note purchased pursuant to any Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, will be required to surrender the Note, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Note completed, or transfer by book-entry transfer, to the Issuers, a Depositary, if appointed by the Issuers, or a Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice at least three days before the Purchase Date;
 
(7) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Issuers, the Depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, receives, not later than the expiration of the Offer Period, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of the Note the Holder delivered for purchase and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have such Note purchased;
 
(8) that, if the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other Debt surrendered by Holders exceeds the Offer Amount, the Issuers will select the Notes and other Debt to be purchased on a basis based on the principal amount of Notes and such other Debt surrendered (with such adjustments as may be deemed appropriate by the Issuers so that only Notes in denominations of $1,000, or integral multiples thereof, will be purchased); and
pari passu
pari passu
pro rata
pari passu
 
(9) that Holders whose Notes were purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered (or transferred by book-entry transfer).
 
On or before the Purchase Date, the Issuers will, to the extent lawful, accept for payment, on a basis to the extent necessary, the Offer Amount of Notes or portions thereof tendered pursuant to the Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, or if less than the Offer Amount has been tendered, all Notes tendered, and will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that such Notes or portions thereof were accepted for payment by the Issuers in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.09. The Issuers, the Depositary or the Paying Agent, as the case may be, will promptly (but in any case not later than five days after the Purchase Date) mail or deliver to each tendering Holder an amount equal to the purchase price of the Notes tendered by such Holder and accepted by the Issuers for purchase, and the Issuers will promptly issue a new Note, and the Trustee, upon written request from the Issuers will authenticate and mail or deliver such new Note to such Holder, in a principal amount equal to any unpurchased portion of the Note surrendered. Any Note not so accepted shall be promptly mailed or delivered by the Issuers to the Holder thereof. The Issuers will publicly announce the results of the Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, on the Purchase Date.
pro rata
 
Other than as specifically provided in this Section 3.09, any purchase pursuant to this Section 3.09 shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Sections 3.02, 3.05 and 3.06 hereof.
 
 
 
Section 4.01 Payment of Notes.
 
The Issuers will pay or cause to be paid the principal of, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes on the dates and in the manner provided in the Notes. Principal, premium, if any, and interest and Liquidated Damages, if any will be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agent, if other than Ventas, Inc. or a Subsidiary thereof, holds as of 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on the due date money deposited by the Issuers in immediately available funds and designated for and sufficient to pay all principal, premium, if any, and interest then due. The Issuers will pay all Liquidated Damages, if any, in the same manner on the dates and in the amounts set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
The Issuers will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal at the rate equal to 1% per annum in excess of the then applicable interest rate on the Notes to the extent lawful; the Issuers will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages (without regard to any applicable grace period) at the same rate to the extent lawful.
 
Section 4.02 Maintenance of Office or Agency.
 
The Issuers will maintain in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, an office or agency (which may be an office of the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee, Registrar or co-registrar) where Notes may be surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Issuers in respect of the Notes and this Indenture may be served. The Issuers will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Issuers fail to maintain any such required office or agency or fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee.
 
The Issuers may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Notes may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; , , that no such designation or rescission will in any manner relieve the Issuers of their obligation to maintain an office or agency in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York for such purposes. The Issuers will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
provided
however
 
The Issuers hereby designate the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as one such office or agency of the Issuers in accordance with Section 2.03 hereof.
 
Section 4.03 Reports.
 
(a) Whether or not required by the Commission, so long as any Notes are outstanding, Ventas, Inc. shall furnish to the Holders of Notes, within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and regulations:
 
(1) all quarterly and annual financial information that would be required to be contained in a filing with the Commission on Forms 10-Q and 10-K if Ventas, Inc. were required to file such Forms, including a "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and, with respect to the annual information only, a report on the annual financial statements by Ventas, Inc.'s certified independent accountants; and
 
(2) all current reports that would be required to be filed with the Commission on Form 8-K if Ventas, Inc. were required to file such reports.
 
For so long as any Notes remain outstanding, Ventas, Inc. shall furnish to the Holders and to securities analysts and prospective investors, upon their request, the information required to be delivered pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act.
 
The availability of the materials required to be furnished pursuant to Section 4.03(a) on the Commission's website or on Ventas, Inc.'s website shall be deemed to satisfy the delivery obligations set forth in this Section 4.03(a).
 
(b) Whether or not required by the Commission, Ventas, Inc. shall file a copy of all of the information and reports referred to in clauses (a)(1) and (2) above with the Commission for public availability within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and regulations (unless the Commission will not accept such a filing) and make such information available to securities analysts and prospective investors upon request.
 
If Ventas, Inc. has designated any of its Subsidiaries as Unrestricted Subsidiaries, then the quarterly and annual financial information required by Section 4.03(b) will include a reasonably detailed presentation, either on the face of the financial statements or in the footnotes thereto, and in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of the financial condition and results of operations of Ventas, Inc., as applicable, and its Restricted Subsidiaries separate from the financial condition and results of operations of the Unrestricted Subsidiaries of Ventas, Inc.
 
Section 4.04 Compliance Certificate.
 
(a) Ventas, Inc. and each Guarantor (to the extent that such Guarantor is so required under the TIA) shall deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year, an Officers' Certificate stating that a review of the activities of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries during the preceding fiscal year has been made under the supervision of the signing Officers with a view to determining whether Ventas, Inc. has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled its obligations under this Indenture, and further stating, as to each such Officer signing such certificate, that to the best of his or her knowledge Ventas, Inc. has kept, observed, performed and fulfilled each and every covenant contained in this Indenture and is not in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture (or, if a Default or Event of Default has occurred, describing all such Defaults or Events of Default of which he or she may have knowledge and what action Ventas, Inc. is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto) and that to the best of his or her knowledge no event has occurred and remains in existence by reason of which payments on account of the principal of or interest, if any, on the Notes is prohibited or if such event has occurred, a description of the event and what action Ventas, Inc. is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
(b) So long as not contrary to the then current recommendations of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the year-end financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 4.03(a) above shall be accompanied by a written statement of Ventas, Inc.'s independent public accountants (who shall be a firm of established national reputation) that in completing their audit of such financial statements, nothing has come to their attention that would lead them to believe that Ventas, Inc. has violated
 
any provisions of Article 4 or Section 5.01(4) (assuming compliance with Sections 5.01(1), (2) and (3)) hereof, insofar as it relates to accounting matters or, if any such violation has occurred, specifying the nature and period of existence thereof, it being understood that such accountants shall not be liable directly or indirectly to any Person for any failure to obtain knowledge of any such violation.
 
(c) So long as any of the Notes are outstanding, Ventas, Inc. will deliver to the Trustee, forthwith upon any Officer becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, an Officers' Certificate specifying such Default or Event of Default and what action the Issuers is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto.
 
Section 4.05 Taxes.
 
Ventas, Inc. will pay, and will cause each of its Subsidiaries to pay, prior to delinquency, all material taxes, assessments, and governmental levies except such as are contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings or where the failure to effect such payment is not adverse in any material respect to the Holders of the Notes.
 
Section 4.06 Stay, Extension and Usury Laws.
 
The Issuers and each of the Guarantors covenants (to the extent that they may lawfully do so) that they will not at any time insist upon, plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay, extension or usury law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, that may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Issuers and each of the Guarantors (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waive all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that they will not, by resort to any such law, hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law has been enacted.
 
Section 4.07 Restricted Payments.
 
(a) Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, directly or indirectly:
 
(1) declare or pay any dividend or make any other payment or distribution on account of Ventas, Inc.'s or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries' Equity Interests (including, without limitation, any payment in connection with any merger or consolidation involving Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries) or to the direct or indirect holders of Ventas, Inc.'s or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries' Equity Interests in their capacity as such (other than dividends or distributions payable () in Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) of Ventas, Inc. or () to Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries);
A
B
 
(2) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire or retire for value (including, without limitation, in connection with any merger or consolidation involving the Partnership) any Equity Interests of () the Partnership or any direct or indirect parent of the Partnership or () any Restricted Subsidiary, including a Permitted Joint Venture (in either case other than Equity Interests owned by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries);
A
B
 
(3) make any payment on or with respect to, or purchase, redeem, defease or otherwise acquire or retire for value any Subordinated Debt, except a payment of interest or principal at the stated maturity thereof; or
 
(4) make any Restricted Investment (all such payments and other actions set forth in these clauses (1) through (4) above being collectively referred to as ""),
Restricted Payments
 
unless, at the time of and after giving effect to such Restricted Payment:
 
(1) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing;
 
(2) Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries could incur at least $1.00 of Debt (other than Permitted Debt) under the terms of the Indenture; and
 
(3) the aggregate sum of all Restricted Payments made after the date hereof, excluding Restricted Payments made pursuant to the following paragraph, shall not exceed the sum of:
 
(A) 95% of our aggregate cumulative Funds from Operations accrued on a cumulative basis from April 1, 2002;
 
(B) the aggregate proceeds or values received after April 17, 2002 from the issuance or sale of Ventas, Inc.'s or the Partnership's Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock and Equity Interests sold to a Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc.), net of underwriting discounts, commissions, legal fees and similar offering expenses;
 
(C) any dividends or other distributions received by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries after April 17, 2002 from an Unrestricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc., to the extent that such dividends were not otherwise included in Earnings From Operations of Ventas, Inc. for such period; and
 
(D) to the extent that any Unrestricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. is or was redesignated as a Restricted Subsidiary after April 17, 2002, the lesser of () the Fair Market Value of Ventas, Inc.'s Investment in such
i
 
Subsidiary as of the date of such redesignation or () such Fair Market Value as of the date on which such Subsidiary was originally designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary.
ii
 
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the limitations on Restricted Payments described in Section 4.07(a) shall not apply to the following:
 
(1) any distribution or other action which is necessary to maintain Ventas Inc.'s status as a REIT under the Code, if the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Debt of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP is less than 60% of Adjusted Total Assets;
 
(2) any distribution payable in Ventas, Inc.'s Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock);
 
(3) so long as the Partnership is a partnership and no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing under the Indenture, distributions to partners of the Partnership in an amount, with respect to any period after April 1, 2002, not to exceed the Tax Amount for such period;
 
(4) the redemption, repurchase or other acquisition or retirement of any Equity Interests in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of a substantially concurrent issue and sale of, Capital Stock to any Person (other than to a Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc.); , , that such net cash proceeds are excluded from Section 4.07(a)(3)(B);
provided
however
 
(5) any redemption, repurchase or other acquisition or retirement of Subordinated Debt in exchange for, or out of the net cash proceeds of () a substantially concurrent issue and sale of, Capital Stock to any Person (other than to a Restricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc.); , , that any such net cash proceeds are excluded from Section 4.07(a)(3)(B) and are not used under Section 4.07(b)(4) or () Permitted Refinancing Debt;
a
provided
however
b
 
(6) repurchases of Capital Stock deemed to occur upon the exercise of stock options if such Capital Stock represents a portion of the exercise price thereof and repurchases of Capital Stock deemed to occur upon the withholding of a portion of the Capital Stock granted or awarded to an employee to pay for the taxes payable by such employee upon such grant or award;
 
(7) dividends and other distributions on the Capital Stock of any Restricted Subsidiary by such Restricted Subsidiary to a Person other than Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
pro rata
 
(8) the redemption, repurchase or other acquisition or retirement of any Capital Stock of Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary from any director, officer or employee of Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary, or from such person's estate, () pursuant to any agreement with such director, officer or employee or () upon the death or termination of directorship or employment of such person, in an aggregate amount under this clause (8) not to exceed $1.5 million in any twelve-month period;
a
b
 
(9) the forgiveness of loans to current or former officers or directors of Ventas, Inc. in an aggregate principal amount since the date of the Indenture of up to $10.0 million; and
 
(10) other Restricted Payments in an aggregate amount not to exceed $75.0 million since the date of the Indenture.
 
Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries shall not be prohibited from making the payment of any distribution within 60 days of the declaration thereof if at the date of declaration such payment would have complied with the provisions of the immediately preceding paragraph.
 
Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries shall deliver to the Trustee, within the time period for filing its quarterly report on Form 10-Q as set forth in Section 4.03(a) hereof, an Officers' Certificate stating that such Restricted Payment is permitted and setting forth the basis upon which the calculations required by this Section 4.07 were computed, together with a copy of any fairness opinion or appraisal required by this Indenture.
 
Section 4.08 Dividend and Other Payment Restrictions Affecting Subsidiaries.
 
(a) Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, create or permit to exist or become effective any consensual encumbrance or restriction on the ability of any Restricted Subsidiary (other than the Partnership or any Excluded Joint Venture) to:
 
(1) pay dividends or make any other distributions on their Capital Stock to Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries, or with respect to any other interest or participation in, or measured by, their profits, or pay any indebtedness owed to Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries;
 
(2) make loans or advances to Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; or
 
(3) transfer any of their properties or assets to Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
(b) The restrictions in Section 4.08(a) will not apply to encumbrances or restrictions existing under or by reason of:
 
(1) agreements governing Existing Debt and Credit Facilities as in effect on the date of the Indenture and any amendments, modifications, restatements, extensions, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacements or refinancings of those agreements, , that the amendments, modifications, restatements, extensions, renewals, increases, supplements, refundings, replacement or refinancings are no more restrictive, taken as a whole, with respect to such dividend and other payment restrictions than those contained in those agreements on the date of the Indenture;
provided
however
 
(2) the Indenture, the Notes and the Note Guarantees;
 
(3) applicable law;
 
(4) any instrument governing Debt or Capital Stock of a Person acquired by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries as in effect at the time of such acquisition (except to the extent such Debt or Capital Stock was incurred in connection with or in contemplation of such acquisition), which encumbrance or restriction is not applicable to any Person, or the properties or assets of any Person, other than the Person, or the property or assets of the Person; so acquired, , , that, in the case of Debt, such Debt was permitted by Section 4.09 hereof;
provided
however
 
(5) customary non-assignment provisions in leases entered into in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practices;
 
(6) purchase money obligations for property acquired in the ordinary course of business that impose restrictions on that property of the nature described in Section 4.08(a)(3);
 
(7) any agreement for the sale or other disposition of the stock or assets of a Subsidiary that restricts distributions by that Subsidiary pending its sale or other disposition;
 
(8) Liens securing Debt otherwise permitted to be incurred by the Indenture or negative covenants with respect to Debt permitted to be secured by Liens that limit the right of the debtor to dispose of the assets subject to such Liens or permitted to be subject to such Liens;
 
(9) provisions with respect to the disposition or distribution of assets or property in joint venture agreements, assets sale agreements, stock sale
 
agreements and other similar agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business; and
 
(10) restrictions on cash or other deposits or net worth imposed by customers under contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business.
 
Section 4.09 Incurrence of Debt.
 
(a) Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, incur any additional Debt (other than Permitted Debt) if, immediately after giving effect to the incurrence of such additional Debt and the application of the proceeds thereof, the aggregate principal amount of all of Ventas, Inc.'s and its Restricted Subsidiaries' outstanding Debt on a consolidated basis determined in accordance with GAAP would be greater than 60% of the sum of (without duplication):
 
(1) the Total Assets of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries as of the end of the calendar quarter covered by Ventas, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K or Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as the case may be, most recently filed with the Commission (or, if such filing is not permitted under the Exchange Act, as of the end of the calendar quarter covered by Ventas, Inc.'s most recent report filed with the Trustee) prior to the incurrence of such additional Debt (the ""); and
Measurement Date
 
(2) the purchase price of any Real Estate Assets or mortgages receivable acquired, and the amount of any securities offering proceeds received (to the extent that such proceeds were not used to acquire Real Estate Assets or mortgages receivable or used to reduce Debt), by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis since the Measurement Date (such sum of clauses (1) and (2) being collectively referred to as "").
Adjusted Total Assets
 
(b) In addition to the limitations in Section 4.09(a), Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, incur any Secured Debt (other than Permitted Debt) if, immediately after giving effect to the incurrence of such additional Secured Debt and the application of the proceeds thereof, the aggregate principal amount of all of Ventas, Inc.'s and its Restricted Subsidiaries' outstanding Secured Debt on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP is greater than 40% of Adjusted Total Assets.
 
(c) In addition to the limitations in Sections 4.09(a) and (), Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, incur any Debt (other than Permitted Debt) if the ratio of Consolidated Income Available for Debt Service to the Annual Debt Service for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the Measurement
b
 
Date shall have been less than 2.0x, on a pro forma basis after giving effect thereto and to the application of the proceeds therefrom, and calculated on the assumption that:
 
(1) such Debt and any other Debt incurred by Ventas, Inc. and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis since the first day of such four-quarter period and the application of the proceeds therefrom, including to refinance other Debt, had occurred at the beginning of such period;
 
(2) the repayment or retirement of any other Debt by Ventas, Inc. and any of its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis since the first day of such four-quarter period had been repaid or retired at the beginning of such period (except that, in making such computation, the amount of Debt under any revolving credit facility shall be computed based upon the average daily balance of such Debt during such period);
 
(3) in the case of Acquired Debt or Debt incurred in connection with any acquisition since the first day of such four-quarter period, the related acquisition had occurred as of the first day of such period with appropriate pro forma adjustments to, among other things Consolidated Income Available for Debt Service, with respect to such acquisition being included in such pro forma calculation; and
 
(4) in the case of any acquisition or disposition by Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis of any asset or group of assets since the first day of such four-quarter period, whether by merger, stock purchase or sale, or asset purchase or sale, such acquisition or disposition or any related repayment of Debt had occurred as of the first day of such period with the appropriate pro forma adjustments with respect to such acquisition or disposition being included in such pro forma calculation.
 
If the Debt giving rise to the need to make the foregoing calculation or any other Debt incurred after the first day of the relevant four-quarter period bears interest at a floating rate then, for purposes of calculating the Annual Debt Service, the interest rate on such Debt will be computed on a pro forma basis as if the average interest rate in effect during the entire such four-quarter period had been the applicable rate for the entire such period; , that for purposes of calculating Annual Debt Service for Debt for which there is a corresponding Hedging Obligation, Annual Debt Service shall be calculated after giving effect to the Hedging Obligation.
provided
however,
 
Section 4.10 Maintenance of Total Unencumbered Assets.
 
Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries shall maintain Total Unencumbered Assets as of the end of each fiscal quarter of not less than 150% of the aggregate outstanding principal amount of Ventas, Inc.'s and its Restricted Subsidiaries' Unsecured
 
Debt as of the end of each fiscal quarter, all calculated on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
 
Section 4.11 Asset Sales.
 
Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, consummate an Asset Sale unless:
 
(1) Ventas, Inc. (or the Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be) receives consideration at the time of the Asset Sale at least equal to the Fair Market Value of the assets or Equity Interests issued or sold or otherwise disposed of;
 
(2) the Fair Market Value is set forth in an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, , that this clause (2) will not apply to sales of assets pursuant to contracts in effect on the date of the Indenture; and
provided
however,
 
(3) at least 75% of the consideration received in the Asset Sale by Ventas, Inc. or such Restricted Subsidiary is in the form of cash, Cash Equivalents and/or Replacement Assets. For purposes of this provision, each of the following will be deemed to be cash:
 
(A) any liabilities, as shown on Ventas, Inc.'s or such Restricted Subsidiaries' most recent balance sheet, of Ventas, Inc. or any such Restricted Subsidiary (other than contingent liabilities and liabilities that are by their terms subordinated to the Notes or any Note Guarantee) that are assumed by the transferee of any such assets but, except in the case of an Asset Sale to a Restricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc., only to the extent of the reduction in the amount of such liabilities on Ventas, Inc.'s consolidated balance sheet;
 
(B) any securities, Notes or other obligations received by Ventas, Inc. or any such Restricted Subsidiary from such transferee that are contemporaneously, subject to ordinary settlement periods, converted by Ventas, Inc. or such Restricted Subsidiary into cash, to the extent of the cash received in that conversion;
 
(C) the cash amount drawable by Ventas, Inc. under any irrevocable letter of credit provided to Ventas, Inc. as consideration for such Asset Sale ( that such amount is drawn before the expiration of such irrevocable letter of credit); and
provided
 
(D) any other consideration received in Asset Sales since the date of the Indenture that is designated by Ventas, Inc. as "Designated
 
Cash Consideration"; , that the aggregate Fair Market Value of all Designated Cash Consideration does not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Tangible Assets.
provided
however
 
Within 365 days after the receipt of any Net Proceeds from an Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction, Ventas, Inc. may apply those Net Proceeds:
 
(1) to repay Debt and other Obligations under a Credit Facility;
 
(2) to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, or a majority of the Voting Stock of, another Permitted Business;
 
(3) to make a capital expenditure;
 
(4) to acquire or enter into a legally binding obligation to acquire Replacement Assets;
 
(5) to acquire other long-term assets that are used or useful in a Permitted Business; or
 
(6) to repay obligations under the CMBS Transaction.
 
Pending the final application of any Net Proceeds, Ventas, Inc. may temporarily reduce revolving credit borrowings or otherwise invest the Net Proceeds in any manner that is not prohibited by the Indenture.
 
Any Net Proceeds from Asset Sales or Qualified CMBS Transactions that are not applied or invested as provided in the preceding paragraph will constitute "." When the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $35.0 million, the Issuers will make an Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as applicable, to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Debt that is with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in this Section 4.11 with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets or in connection with securitizations to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and such other Debt that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds. The offer price in any Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer will be equal to 100% of principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the date of purchase, and will be payable in cash. If any Excess Proceeds remain after consummation of an Asset Sale Offer or a Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, the Issuers may use those Excess Proceeds for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by the Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other Debt tendered into such Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as applicable, exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee will select the Notes and such other Debt to be purchased on a basis. Upon completion of each Asset Sale
Excess Proceeds
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pro rata
 
Offer and Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, the amount of Excess Proceeds will be reset at zero.
 
The Issuers will comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with each repurchase of Notes pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction provisions of this Indenture, the Issuers will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached their obligations under the Asset Sale or Qualified CMBS Transaction provisions of this Indenture by virtue of such conflict.
 
Section 4.12 Transactions with Affiliates.
 
(a) Ventas, Inc. shall not, and shall not permit its Restricted Subsidiaries to, make any payment to, or sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of their properties or assets to, or purchase any property or assets from, or enter into or make or amend any transaction, contract, agreement, understanding, loan, advance or guarantee with, or for the benefit of, any Affiliate or 10% Stockholder (each, an ""), unless the Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are no less favorable to Ventas, Inc. or the relevant Restricted Subsidiary than those that would have been obtained in a comparable transaction by Ventas, Inc. or such Restricted Subsidiary with an unrelated Person; , , that for an Affiliate Transaction with an aggregate value of $10.0 million or more, at Ventas, Inc.'s option, either:
Affiliate Transaction
provided
however
 
(1) a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. who have no conflicting financial interest in the Affiliate Transaction shall determine in good faith that such Affiliate Transaction is on terms that are not materially less favorable than those that might reasonably have been obtained in a comparable transaction at such time on an arm's-length basis from a Person that is not an Affiliate of Ventas, Inc.; or
 
(2) the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. shall obtain an opinion from a nationally recognized investment banking, appraisal or accounting firm that such Affiliate Transaction is fair to Ventas, Inc. or the applicable Restricted Subsidiary from a financial point of view.
 
(b) The following items will not be deemed to be Affiliate Transactions and, therefore, will not be subject to the provisions of Section 4.12(a):
 
(1) directors' fees, indemnification and similar arrangements, consulting fees, employee salaries, bonuses or employment agreements, compensation or employee benefit arrangements and incentive arrangements with,
 
and loans and advances to, any officer, director or employee in the ordinary course of business;
 
(2) performance of all agreements in existence on the date of the Indenture and any modification thereto or any transaction contemplated thereby in any replacement agreement therefor so long as such modification or replacement is not materially more disadvantageous to Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries than the original agreement in effect on the date of the Indenture;
 
(3) customary transactions in connection with a Qualified CMBS Transaction;
 
(4) transactions between or among Ventas, Inc. and/or its Restricted Subsidiaries (other than any Permitted Joint Venture);
 
(5) transactions with a Person (other than a Permitted Joint Venture and its Subsidiaries) that is an Affiliate of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries solely because Ventas, Inc. or a Restricted Subsidiary owns an Equity Interest in, or controls, such Person;
 
(6) sales of Equity Interests (other than Disqualified Stock) to Affiliates of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries; and
 
(7) Restricted Payments that are permitted by Section 4.07 hereof.
 
Section 4.13 Corporate Existence.
 
Except as permitted as by Article 5, Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries shall do all things necessary to preserve and keep their existence, rights and franchises; , that the existence of a Restricted Subsidiary may be terminated if the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. determines that it is in the best interests of Ventas, Inc. to do so.
provided
however
 
Section 4.14 Offer to Repurchase Upon Change of Control.
 
(a) If a Change of Control occurs, each holder of Notes will have the right to require the Issuers to purchase some or all (in principal amounts of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000) of such holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the ""), unless, after giving pro forma effect to the Change of Control, () Moody's and S&P shall have confirmed their ratings of the Notes at Ba3 or higher and BB- or higher, respectively, () the ratio of Consolidated Income Available for Debt Service to Annual Debt Service for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the most recent Measurement Date prior to the date of such Change of Control after such Change of Control is at least equal to the ratio of Consolidated Income Available for
Change of Control Offer
i
ii
 
Debt Service to Annual Debt Service prior to such Change of Control and () the Person formed by or surviving any consolidation or merger (if other than the Partnership) or to which any sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made forming the basis of the Change of Control is principally engaged in a Permitted Business.
iii
 
(b) Any Change of Control Offer will include a cash offer price of 101% of the principal amount of any Notes purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the ""). If a Change of Control Offer is required, within 10 Business Days following a Change of Control, the Issuers shall mail a notice to each holder describing the Change of Control and offering to repurchase Notes on a specified date (the ""). The Change of Control Payment Date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed. The notice shall state:
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
 
(1) that the Change of Control Offer is being made pursuant to this Section 4.14 and that all Notes tendered will be accepted for payment;
 
(2) the purchase price and the Change of Control Payment Date;
 
(3) that any Note not tendered will continue to accrue interest;
 
(4) that, unless the Issuers default in the payment of the Change of Control Payment, all Notes accepted for payment pursuant to the Change of Control Offer will cease to accrue interest after the Change of Control Payment Date;
 
(5) that Holders electing to have any Notes purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender the Notes, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Notes completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice prior to the close of business on the third Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date;
 
(6) that Holders will be entitled to withdraw their election if the Paying Agent receives, not later than the close of business on the second Business Day preceding the Change of Control Payment Date, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of the Holder, the principal amount of Notes delivered for purchase, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing his election to have the Notes purchased; and
 
(7) that Holders whose Notes are being purchased only in part will be issued new Notes equal in principal amount to the unpurchased portion of the
 
Notes surrendered, which unpurchased portion must be equal to $1,000 in principal amount or an integral multiple thereof.
 
The Issuers will comply with the requirements of Section 14(e) of the Exchange Act and any other securities laws or regulations to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable to any Change of Control Offer. If the provisions of any of the applicable securities laws or securities regulations conflict with the provisions of this Section 4.14, the Issuers will comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached their obligations under this Section 4.14 by virtue of that compliance.
 
(c) On the Change of Control Payment Date, the Issuers will, to the extent lawful:
 
(1) accept for payment all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
(2) deposit the Change of Control Payment with the Paying Agent in respect of all Notes so accepted; and
 
(3) deliver to the Trustee the Notes accepted and an Officers' Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of all Notes purchased.
 
The Paying Agent will promptly mail to each holder of Notes properly tendered the Change of Control Payment for such Notes, and the Trustee will promptly authenticate and mail, or cause to be transferred by book entry, to each holder a new Note in principal amount equal to any unpurchased portion of the Notes surrendered.
 
(d) A third party, instead of the Issuers, may make the Change of Control Offer in compliance with the requirements set forth in this Section 4.14 and purchase all Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn. In addition, the Issuers shall not be obligated to make or consummate a Change of Control Offer if they have irrevocably elected to redeem all of the Notes pursuant to Section 3.07 and have not defaulted in their redemption obligations. The provisions under this Section 4.14 may be waived or modified with the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding.
 
Section 4.15 Payments for Consent.
 
The Issuers shall not, and shall not permit any of its Restricted Subsidiaries to, directly or indirectly, pay or cause to be paid any consideration to or for the benefit of any Holder of Notes for or as an inducement to any consent, waiver or amendment of any of the terms or provisions of this Indenture or the Notes unless such consideration is offered to be paid and is paid to all Holders of the Notes that consent, waive or agree to
 
amend in the time frame set forth in the solicitation documents relating to such consent, waiver or agreement.
 
Section 4.16 Additional Note Guarantees.
 
If Ventas, Inc. acquires or creates another Subsidiary after the date hereof, other than an Excluded Joint Venture or a Subsidiary that has properly been designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with this Indenture for so long as it continues to constitute an Excluded Joint Venture or an Unrestricted Subsidiary, then that newly acquired or created Subsidiary shall become a Guarantor and execute a supplemental indenture and deliver a customary Opinion of Counsel satisfactory to the Trustee within 10 Business Days of the date on which it was acquired or created. The form of such supplemental indenture is attached as Exhibit F hereto.
 
Section 4.17 Ventas Capital Corporation.
 
Ventas Capital Corporation may not hold any material assets, become liable for any material obligations or engage in any significant business activities; , that Ventas Capital Corporation may be a co-obligor with respect to Debt if the Partnership is a primary obligor of such Debt and the net proceeds of such Debt are received by the Partnership or one or more of its Restricted Subsidiaries other than Ventas Capital Corporation.
provided
however
 
Section 4.18 Designation of Restricted and Unrestricted Subsidiaries.
 
The Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. may designate any Restricted Subsidiary to be an Unrestricted Subsidiary if that designation would not cause a Default. If a Restricted Subsidiary is designated as an Unrestricted Subsidiary, the aggregate Fair Market Value of all outstanding Investments owned by Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries in the Subsidiary properly designated will be deemed to be an Investment made as of the time of the designation and will reduce the amount available for Restricted Payments under Section 4.07 or Permitted Investments, as determined by Ventas, Inc. That designation will only be permitted if the Investment would be permitted at that time and if the Restricted Subsidiary otherwise meets the definition of an Unrestricted Subsidiary. The Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. may redesignate any Unrestricted Subsidiary to be a Restricted Subsidiary; , that such designation will be deemed to be an incurrence of Debt by a Restricted Subsidiary of Ventas, Inc. of any outstanding Debt of such Unrestricted Subsidiary and such designation will only be permitted if () such Debt is permitted under Section 4.09 and 4.10 calculated on a pro forma basis as if such designation had occurred at the beginning of the four-quarter reference period; and () no Default or Event of Default would be in existence following such designation.
provided
however
1
2
 
Section 4.19 Changes in Covenants When Notes Graded Investment Grade.
 
(a) If following the date of this Indenture:
 
(1) the Notes are rated either Baa3 or better by Moody's or BBB- or better by S&P (the "") (or, if either such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of Ventas, Inc., the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as that term is used in Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by Ventas, Inc. as a replacement agency); and
Investment Grade Rating
 
(2) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
 
then, beginning on that day, and subject to the provisions of Section 4.19(b) and (c) hereof, the following covenants will be suspended (subject to reinstatement as described in Section 4.19(b) hereof): Sections 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.11, 4.12 and 4.14. The Issuers shall provide the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate stating that the conditions set forth in clauses (1) and (2) above have been satisfied.
 
(b) Notwithstanding Section 4.19(a) hereof, if the Investment Grade Rating should subsequently decline to below Baa3 or BBB-, as applicable, the foregoing covenants shall be reinstituted as of and from the date of such rating decline. In that case, Section 4.07 shall be interpreted as if it had been in effect since the date of the Indenture except that no Default will be deemed to have occurred solely by reason of a Restricted Payment made while that covenant was suspended.
 
(c) Notwithstanding Section 4.19(b) hereof, neither () the continued existence following the reinstatement of the foregoing covenants of facts and circumstances or obligations that were incurred or otherwise came into existence while the foregoing covenants were suspended nor () the performance of any such obligations, including the consummation of any transaction pursuant to, and on materially the same terms as, a contractual agreement in existence prior to the reinstatement of the foregoing covenants, shall constitute a breach of any such covenants or cause a Default or Event of Default thereunder, , that () Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries did not incur or otherwise cause such facts and circumstances or obligations to exist in anticipation of the reinstatement of the foregoing covenants and () Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries did not reasonably believe that such incurrence or actions would result in such reinstatement. For purposes of clause (2) above, any increase in the consideration to be paid prior to such amendment or modification to the terms of an existing obligation following the reinstatement of the foregoing covenants that does not exceed 10% of the consideration that was to be paid prior to such amendment or modification shall not be deemed a "material" amendment or modification. For purposes of clauses (A) and (B) above, anticipation and reasonable
1
2
provided
however
A
B
 
belief may be determined by Ventas, Inc. and shall be conclusively evidenced by a board resolution to such effect adopted by the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. The Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. in making its determination may, but need not, consult with Moody's or S&P, as applicable.
 
(d) If following the date of this Indenture:
 
(1) the Notes are rated both Baa3 or better by Moody's and BBB- or better by S&P (or, if either such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of Ventas, Inc., the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as that term is used in Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by Ventas, Inc. as a replacement agency); and
 
(2) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
 
then, beginning on that day, and subject to the provisions of Section 4.19(e) and (f) hereof, the following covenants will no longer be applicable to the Notes (subject to reinstatement of Section 4.09 as described in Section 4.19(e) hereof): Sections 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.11, 4.12 and 4.14. The Issuers shall provide the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate stating that the conditions set forth in clauses (1) and (2) above have been satisfied.
 
(e) Notwithstanding Section 4.19(d) hereof, if the rating assigned by both rating agencies specified in Section 4.19(d)(1) hereof should subsequently decline to below Baa3 and BBB-, respectively, Section 4.09 shall be reinstituted as of and from the date of such ratings decline.
 
(f) Notwithstanding Section 4.19(d) hereof, neither () the continued existence following the reinstatement of Section 4.09 of facts and circumstances or obligations that were incurred or otherwise came into existence while Section 4.09 was suspended nor () the performance of any such obligations, including the consummation of any transaction pursuant to, and on materially the same terms as, a contractual agreement in existence prior to the reinstatement of Section 4.09, shall constitute a breach of Section 4.09 or cause a Default or Event of Default thereunder, , that () Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries did not incur or otherwise cause such facts and circumstances or obligations to exist in anticipation of the reinstatement of Section 4.09 and () Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries did not reasonably believe that such incurrence or actions would result in such reinstatement. For purposes of clause (2) above, any increase in the consideration to be paid prior to such amendment or modification to the terms of an existing obligation following the reinstatement of Section 4.09 that does not exceed 10% of the consideration that was to be paid prior to such amendment or modification shall not be deemed a "material" amendment or
1
2
provided, however
A
B
 
modification. For purposes of clauses (A) and (B) above, anticipation and reasonable belief may be determined by Ventas, Inc. and shall be conclusively evidenced by a board resolution to such effect adopted by the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. The Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. in making its determination may, but need not, consult with Moody's and S&P.
 
 
 
Section 5.01 Merger, Consolidation, or Sale of Assets.
 
Ventas, Inc. may not, directly or indirectly: () consolidate or merge with or into another Person (whether or not Ventas, Inc. is the surviving corporation); or () sell, assign, transfer, convey, lease (other than to an unaffiliated operator in the ordinary course of business) or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole, in one or more related transactions, to another Person; unless:
1
2
 
(1) either:
 
(A) Ventas, Inc. is the surviving corporation; or
 
(B) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than Ventas, Inc.) or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made is a corporation organized or existing under the laws of the United States, any state of the United States or the District of Columbia;
 
(2) the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than Ventas, Inc.) or the Person to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made assumes all the obligations of Ventas, Inc. under the Notes, the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement pursuant to agreements reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee;
 
(3) immediately after such transaction, on a pro forma basis giving effect to such transaction or series of transactions (and treating any obligation of Ventas, Inc. or any Restricted Subsidiary incurred in connection with or as a result of such transaction or series of transactions as having been incurred at the time of such transaction), no Default or Event of Default exists; and
 
(4) Ventas, Inc. or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger (if other than Ventas, Inc.), or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made will, on the
 
date of such transaction after giving pro forma effect thereto and any related financing transactions as if the same had occurred at the beginning of the applicable four-quarter period, be permitted to incur at least $1.00 of additional Debt (other than Permitted Debt) pursuant to Section 4.09 hereof.
 
In addition, in the case of any lease of all or substantially all of its properties or assets (other than to an unaffiliated operator in the ordinary course of business), in one or more related transactions, to any other Person the terms of the lease must be reasonably acceptable to the Trustee or to Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Notes. This Section 5.01 will not apply to a sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition of assets between or among Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries.
 
Section 5.02 Successor Corporation Substituted.
 
Upon any consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance, transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all of the properties or assets of Ventas, Inc. in accordance with Section 5.01, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which Ventas, Inc. is merged or to which such sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition is made, shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Ventas, Inc. under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor initially had been named as Ventas, Inc. herein. When a successor assumes all the obligations of its predecessor under this Indenture and the Notes following a consolidation or merger, or any sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance, transfer or other disposition of 90% or more of the assets of the predecessor in accordance with the foregoing provisions, the predecessor shall be released from those obligations.
 
 
 
Section 6.01 Events of Default.
 
Each of the following is an "Event of Default:"
 
(1) Ventas, Inc. or its Restricted Subsidiaries do not pay the principal or any premium on the Notes when due and payable;
 
(2) Ventas, Inc. or its Restricted Subsidiaries do not pay interest on the Notes within 30 days after the applicable due date;
 
(3) Ventas, Inc. or its Restricted Subsidiaries fail to make or consummate a Change of Control Offer following a Change of Control when required under Section 4.14;
 
(4) Ventas, Inc. or its Restricted Subsidiaries remain in breach of any other term of the Indenture for 60 days after they receive a notice of Default stating they are in breach. Either the Trustee or the Holders of more than 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may send the notice;
 
(5) Final judgments aggregating in excess of $50.0 million (exclusive of amounts covered by insurance) are entered against Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries and are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days;
 
(6) Ventas, Inc. or its Restricted Subsidiaries default under any of their indebtedness in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $50.0 million after the expiration of any applicable grace period, which default results in the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness. Such default is not an Event of Default if the other indebtedness is discharged, or the acceleration is rescinded or annulled, within a period of 10 days after Ventas, Inc. or its Restricted Subsidiaries receives notice specifying the default and requiring that they discharge the other indebtedness or cause the acceleration to be rescinded or annulled. Either the Trustee or the Holders of more than 25% in principal amount of the Notes then outstanding may send the notice;
 
(7) Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary:
 
(A) commences a voluntary case;
 
(B) consents to the entry of an order for relief against it in an involuntary case;
 
(C) consents to the appointment of a custodian of it or for all or substantially all of its property;
 
(D) makes a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors; or
 
(E) generally is not paying its debts as they become due; or
 
(8) a court of competent jurisdiction enters an order or decree under any Bankruptcy Law that:
 
(A) is for relief against Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, in an involuntary case;
 
(B) appoints a custodian of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, or for all or substantially all of the property of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary; or
 
(C) orders the liquidation of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries, or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary;
 
and the order or decree remains unstayed and in effect for 60 consecutive days.
 
Section 6.02 Acceleration.
 
In the case of an Event of Default specified in clause (7) or (8) of Section 6.01 hereof, with respect to Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary, all outstanding Notes will become due and payable immediately without further action or notice. If any other Event of Default occurs and has not been cured, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare the entire principal amount of all the Notes to be due and immediately payable by written notice to the Partnership, Ventas, Inc. and the Trustee. Upon any such declaration, the Notes shall become due and payable immediately. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes by written notice to the Trustee may on behalf of all of the Holders rescind an acceleration and its consequences if the rescission would not conflict with any judgment or decree and if all existing Events of Default (except nonpayment of principal, interest or premium that has become due solely because of the acceleration) have been cured or waived.
 
Section 6.03 Other Remedies.
 
If an Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may pursue any available remedy to collect the payment of principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Notes or to enforce the performance of any provision of the Notes or this Indenture.
 
The Trustee may maintain a proceeding even if it does not possess any of the Notes or does not produce any of them in the proceeding. A delay or omission by the Trustee or any Holder of a Note in exercising any right or remedy accruing upon an Event of Default shall not impair the right or remedy or constitute a waiver of or acquiescence in the Event of Default. All remedies are cumulative to the extent permitted by law.
 
Section 6.04 Waiver of Past Defaults.
 
Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive an existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences hereunder, except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest on, the Notes (excluding in connection with a Change of Control Offer or an offer to purchase); , , that the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may rescind an acceleration and its consequences, including any related payment default that resulted from such acceleration. Upon any such waiver, such Default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
provided
however
 
Section 6.05 Control by Majority.
 
Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for exercising any remedy available to the Trustee or exercising any trust or power conferred on it. However, the Trustee may refuse to follow any direction that conflicts with law or this Indenture that the Trustee determines may be unduly prejudicial to the rights of other Holders of Notes or that may involve the Trustee in personal liability.
 
Section 6.06 Limitation on Suits.
 
A Holder of a Note may pursue a remedy with respect to this Indenture or the Notes only if:
 
(1) the Holder of a Note must give the Trustee written notice that an Event of Default has occurred and remains uncured;
 
(2) the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of all outstanding Notes must make a written request that the Trustee take action because of the Default, and must offer reasonable indemnity to the Trustee against the cost and other liabilities of taking that action;
 
(3) the Trustee must have not taken action for 60 days after receipt of the notice and offer of indemnity; and
 
(4) the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of all outstanding Notes have not given the Trustee a direction inconsistent with such request within such 60-day period.
 
A Holder of a Note may not use this Indenture to prejudice the rights of another Holder of a Note or to obtain a preference or priority over another Holder of a Note.
 
Section 6.07 Rights of Holders of Notes to Receive Payment.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, the right of any Holder of a Note to receive payment of principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Note, on or after the respective due dates expressed in the Note (excluding in connection with a Change of Control Offer or an offer to purchase), or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.
 
Section 6.08 Collection Suit by Trustee.
 
If an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(1) or (2) occurs and is continuing, the Trustee is authorized to recover judgment in its own name and as trustee of an express trust against the Issuers for the whole amount of principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest remaining unpaid on the Notes and interest on overdue principal and, to the extent lawful, interest and such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
 
Section 6.09 Trustee May File Proofs of Claim.
 
The Trustee is authorized to file such proofs of claim and other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and the Holders of the Notes allowed in any judicial proceedings relative to the Issuers (or any other obligor upon the Notes), its creditors or its property and shall be entitled and empowered to collect, receive and distribute any money or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and any custodian in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee, and in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due to it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof. To the extent that the payment of any such compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 7.07 hereof out of the estate in any such proceeding, shall be denied for any reason, payment of the same shall be secured by a Lien on, and shall be paid out of, any and all distributions, dividends, money, securities and other properties that the Holders may be entitled to receive in such proceeding whether in liquidation or under any plan of reorganization or arrangement or otherwise. Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of
 
any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Notes or the rights of any Holder, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
Section 6.10 Priorities.
 
If the Trustee collects any money pursuant to this Article 6, it shall pay out the money in the following order:
 
to the Trustee, its agents and attorneys for amounts due under Section 7.07 hereof, including payment of all compensation, expense and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee and the costs and expenses of collection;
First:
 
to Holders of Notes for amounts due and unpaid on the Notes for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on the Notes for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any and interest, respectively; and
Second:
 
to the Issuers or to such party as a court of competent jurisdiction shall direct.
Third:
 
The Trustee may fix a record date and payment date for any payment to Holders of Notes pursuant to this Section 6.10.
 
Section 6.11 Undertaking for Costs.
 
In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as a Trustee, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. This Section 6.11 does not apply to a suit by the Trustee, a suit by a Holder of a Note pursuant to Section 6.07 hereof, or a suit by Holders of more than 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes.
 
 
 
Section 7.01 Duties of Trustee.
 
(a) If an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Trustee will exercise such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same
 
degree of care and skill in its exercise, as a prudent person would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of such person's own affairs.
 
(b) Except during the continuance of an Event of Default:
 
(1) the duties of the Trustee will be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture and the Trustee need perform only those duties that are specifically set forth in this Indenture and no others, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(2) in the absence of bad faith on its part, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture. However, the Trustee will examine the certificates and opinions to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture.
 
(c) The Trustee may not be relieved from liabilities for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(1) this paragraph does not limit the effect of paragraph () of this Section 7.01;
b
 
(2) the Trustee will not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer, unless it is proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
 
(3) the Trustee will not be liable with respect to any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in accordance with a direction received by it pursuant to Section 6.05 hereof.
 
(d) Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture that in any way relates to the Trustee is subject to paragraphs (), (), and () of this Section 7.01.
a
b
c
 
(e) No provision of this Indenture will require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or incur any liability. The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of its rights and powers under this Indenture at the request of any Holders, unless such Holder has offered to the Trustee security and indemnity satisfactory to it against any loss, liability or expense.
 
(f) The Trustee will not be liable for interest on any money received by it except as the Trustee may agree in writing with the Issuers. Money held in trust by the Trustee need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
Section 7.02 Rights of Trustee.
 
(a) The Trustee may conclusively rely upon any document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper Person. The Trustee need not investigate any fact or matter stated in the document.
 
(b) Before the Trustee acts or refrains from acting, it may require an Officers' Certificate or an Opinion of Counsel or both. The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith in reliance on such Officers' Certificate or Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee may consult with counsel and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel will be full and complete authorization and protection from liability in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon.
 
(c) The Trustee may act through its attorneys and agents and will not be responsible for the misconduct or negligence of any agent appointed with due care.
 
(d) The Trustee will not be liable for any action it takes or omits to take in good faith that it believes to be authorized or within the rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture.
 
(e) Unless otherwise specifically provided in this Indenture, any demand, request, direction or notice from the Issuers will be sufficient if signed by an Officer of the Issuers.
 
(f) The Trustee will be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders unless such Holders have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity against the costs, expenses and liabilities that might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction.
 
Section 7.03 Individual Rights of Trustee.
 
The Trustee in its individual or any other capacity may become the owner or pledgee of Notes and may otherwise deal with the Issuers or any Affiliate of the Issuers with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee. However, in the event that the Trustee acquires any conflicting interest it must eliminate such conflict within 90 days, apply to the Commission for permission to continue as trustee or resign. Any Agent may do the same with like rights and duties. The Trustee is also subject to Sections 7.10 and 7.11 hereof.
 
Section 7.04 Trustee's Disclaimer.
 
The Trustee will not be responsible for and makes no representation as to the validity or adequacy of this Indenture or the Notes, it shall not be accountable for the Issuers' use of the proceeds from the Notes or any money paid to the Issuers or upon the Issuers' direction under any provision of this Indenture, it will not be responsible for the use or application of any money received by any Paying Agent other than the Trustee, and it will not be responsible for any statement or recital herein or any statement in the Notes or any other document in connection with the sale of the Notes or pursuant to this Indenture other than its certificate of authentication.
 
Section 7.05 Notice of Defaults.
 
If a Default or Event of Default occurs and is continuing and if it is known to the Trustee, the Trustee will mail to Holders of Notes a notice of the Default or Event of Default within 90 days after it occurs. Except in the case of a Default or Event of Default in payment of principal of, premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest on any Note, the Trustee may withhold the notice if and so long as a committee of its Responsible Officers in good faith determines that withholding the notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Notes.
 
Section 7.06 Reports by Trustee to Holders of the Notes.
 
(a) Within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year beginning with the end of the fiscal year following the date of this Indenture, and for so long as Notes remain outstanding, the Trustee will mail to the Holders of the Notes a brief report dated as of such reporting date that complies with TIA  313(a) (but if no event described in TIA  313(a) has occurred within the twelve months preceding the reporting date, no report need be transmitted). The Trustee also will comply with TIA  313(b)(2). The Trustee will also transmit by mail all reports as required by TIA  313(c).
 
(b) A copy of each report at the time of its mailing to the Holders of Notes will be mailed by the Trustee to the Issuers and filed by the Trustee with the Commission and each stock exchange on which the Notes are listed in accordance with TIA  313(d). The Issuers will promptly notify the Trustee when the Notes are listed on any stock exchange.
 
Section 7.07 Compensation and Indemnity.
 
(a) The Issuers will pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for its acceptance of this Indenture and services hereunder. The Trustee's compensation will not be limited by any law on compensation of a trustee of an express trust. The Issuers will reimburse the Trustee promptly upon request for all reasonable disbursements, advances and expenses incurred or made by it in addition to the
 
compensation for its services. Such expenses will include the reasonable compensation, disbursements and expenses of the Trustee's agents and counsel.
 
(b) The Issuers and the Guarantor will indemnify the Trustee against any and all losses, liabilities or expenses incurred by it arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of its duties under this Indenture, including the costs and expenses of enforcing this Indenture against the Issuers and the Guarantors (including this Section 7.07) and defending itself against any claim (whether asserted by the Issuers, the Guarantors or any Holder or any other Person) or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder, except to the extent any such loss, liability or expense may be attributable to its negligence or bad faith. The Trustee will notify the Issuers promptly of any claim for which it may seek indemnity. Failure by the Trustee to so notify the Issuers will not relieve the Issuers or any of the Guarantors of their obligations hereunder. The Issuers or such Guarantor will defend the claim and the Trustee will cooperate in the defense. The Trustee may have separate counsel and the Issuers will pay the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. Neither the Issuers nor any Guarantor need pay for any settlement made without its consent, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld.
 
(c) The obligations of the Issuers and the Guarantors under this Section 7.07 will survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
(d) To secure the Issuers' payment obligations in this Section 7.07, the Trustee will have a Lien prior to the Notes on all money or property held or collected by the Trustee, except that held in trust to pay principal and interest on particular Notes. Such Lien will survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
(e) When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services after an Event of Default specified in Section 6.01(7) or (8) hereof occurs, the expenses and the compensation for the services (including the fees and expenses of its agents and counsel) are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any Bankruptcy Law.
 
(f) The Trustee will comply with the provisions of TIA  313(b)(2) to the extent applicable.
 
Section 7.08 Replacement of Trustee.
 
(a) A resignation or removal of the Trustee and appointment of a successor Trustee will become effective only upon the successor Trustee's acceptance of appointment as provided in this Section 7.08.
 
(b) The Trustee may resign in writing at any time and be discharged from the trust hereby created by so notifying the Issuers. The Holders of a majority in principal
 
amount of the then outstanding Notes may remove the Trustee by so notifying the Trustee and the Issuers in writing. The Issuers may remove the Trustee if:
 
(1) the Trustee fails to comply with Section 7.10 hereof;
 
(2) the Trustee is adjudged a bankrupt or an insolvent or an order for relief is entered with respect to the Trustee under any Bankruptcy Law;
 
(3) a custodian or public officer takes charge of the Trustee or its property; or
 
(4) the Trustee becomes incapable of acting.
 
(c) If the Trustee resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Trustee for any reason, the Issuers will promptly appoint a successor Trustee. Within one year after the successor Trustee takes office, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may appoint a successor Trustee to replace the successor Trustee appointed by the Issuers.
 
(d) If a successor Trustee does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Trustee resigns or is removed, the retiring Trustee, the Issuers, or the Holders of at least 10% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(e) If the Trustee, after written request by any Holder who has been a Holder for at least six months, fails to comply with Section 7.10, such Holder may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor Trustee.
 
(f) A successor Trustee will deliver a written acceptance of its appointment to the retiring Trustee and to the Issuers. Thereupon, the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee will become effective, and the successor Trustee will have all the rights, powers and duties of the Trustee under this Indenture. The successor Trustee will mail a notice of its succession to Holders. The retiring Trustee will promptly transfer all property held by it as Trustee to the successor Trustee, provided all sums owing to the Trustee hereunder have been paid and subject to the Lien provided for in Section 7.07 hereof. Notwithstanding replacement of the Trustee pursuant to this Section 7.08, the Issuers' obligations under Section 7.07 hereof will continue for the benefit of the retiring Trustee.
 
Section 7.09 Successor Trustee by Merger, etc.
 
If the Trustee consolidates, merges or converts into, or transfers all or substantially all of its corporate trust business to, another corporation, the successor corporation without any further act will be the successor Trustee.
 
Section 7.10 Eligibility; Disqualification.
 
There will at all times be a Trustee hereunder that is a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any state thereof that is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trustee power, that is subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authorities and that has a combined capital and surplus of at least $100 million as set forth in its most recent published annual report of condition.
 
This Indenture will always have a Trustee who satisfies the requirements of TIA  310(a)(1), () and (). The Trustee is subject to TIA  310(b).
2
5
 
Section 7.11 Preferential Collection of Claims Against Issuers.
 
The Trustee is subject to TIA  311(a), excluding any creditor relationship listed in TIA  311(b). A Trustee who has resigned or been removed shall be subject to TIA  311(a) to the extent indicated therein.
 
 
 
Section 8.01 Option to Effect Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
The Issuers may, at the option of their Board of Directors evidenced by a resolution set forth in an Officers' Certificate, at any time, elect to have either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof be applied to all outstanding Notes upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article 8.
 
Section 8.02 Legal Defeasance and Discharge.
 
Upon the Issuers' exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.02, the Issuers and each of the Guarantors will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be deemed to have been discharged from their obligations with respect to all outstanding Notes (including the Note Guarantees) on the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, ""). For this purpose, Legal Defeasance means that the Issuers and the Guarantors will be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Debt represented by the outstanding Notes (including the Note Guarantees), which will thereafter be deemed to be "outstanding"
Legal Defeasance
 
only for the purposes of Section 8.05 hereof and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in clauses (1) and (2) below, and to have satisfied all their other obligations under such Notes, the Note Guarantees and this Indenture (and the Trustee, on demand of and at the expense of the Issuers, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following provisions which will survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder:
 
(1) the rights of Holders of outstanding Notes to receive payments in respect of the principal of, or interest or premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, on such Notes when such payments are due from the trust referred to in Section 8.04 hereof;
 
(2) the Issuers' obligations with respect to such Notes under Article 2 and Section 4.02 hereof;
 
(3) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and the Issuers' and the Guarantors' obligations in connection therewith; and
 
(4) this Article 8.
 
Subject to compliance with this Article 8, the Issuers may exercise their option under this Section 8.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of their option under Section 8.03 hereof.
 
Section 8.03 Covenant Defeasance.
 
Upon the Issuers' exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03, the Issuers and the Guarantors will, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, be released from each of their obligations under the covenants contained in Sections 4.07, 4.08, 4.09, 4.10, 4.11, 4.12, 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17, 4.18 hereof and clause (4) of Section 5.01 hereof with respect to the outstanding Notes on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof are satisfied (hereinafter, ""), and the Notes will thereafter be deemed not "outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but will continue to be deemed "outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder (it being understood that such Notes will not be deemed outstanding for accounting purposes). For this purpose, Covenant Defeasance means that, with respect to the outstanding Notes and Note Guarantees, the Issuers and the Guarantors may omit to comply with and will have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of any reference in any such covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply will not constitute a
Covenant Defeasance
 
Default or an Event of Default under Section 6.01 hereof, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Notes and Note Guarantees will be unaffected thereby. In addition, upon the Issuers' exercise under Section 8.01 hereof of the option applicable to this Section 8.03 hereof, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in Section 8.04 hereof, Sections 6.01(3) through 6.01(6) hereof will not constitute Events of Default.
 
Section 8.04 Conditions to Legal or Covenant Defeasance.
 
In order to exercise either Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance under either Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof:
 
(1) the Issuers must irrevocably deposit with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders, cash in United States dollars, non-callable U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds(or depositary receipts representing these notes or bonds), or any combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants, to pay the principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the outstanding Notes on the stated date for payment thereof or on the applicable redemption date, as the case may be;
 
(2) in the case of an election under Section 8.02 hereof, the Issuers have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that:
 
(A) the Issuers have received from, or there has been published by, the IRS a ruling; or
 
(B) since the date of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law,
 
in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such Opinion of Counsel shall confirm that, the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Legal Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Legal Defeasance had not occurred;
 
(3) in the case of an election under Section 8.03 hereof, the Issuers must deliver to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel in the United States reasonably acceptable to the Trustee confirming that the Holders of the outstanding Notes will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such Covenant Defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the
 
same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such Covenant Defeasance had not occurred;
 
(4) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit (other than a Default or Event of Default resulting from the borrowing of funds to be applied to such deposit);
 
(5) such Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any material agreement or instrument (other than this Indenture) to which Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries is a party or by which Ventas, Inc. or any of its Restricted Subsidiaries is bound;
 
(6) the Issuers must deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that the deposit was not made by Issuers with the intent of preferring the Holders of Notes over the other creditors of Issuers with the intent of defeating, hindering, delaying or defrauding any other creditors of the Issuers or others; and
 
(7) the Issuers must deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for or relating to the Legal Defeasance or the Covenant Defeasance have been complied with.
 
Section 8.05 Deposited Money and Government Securities to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions.
 
Subject to Section 8.06 hereof, all money and U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds (or depositary receipts representing these notes or bonds), or any combination thereof (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 8.05, the "") pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof in respect of the outstanding Notes will be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Issuers acting as Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Notes of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Trustee
 
The Issuers will pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the cash or non-callable U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds deposited pursuant to Section 8.04 hereof or the principal and interest received in respect thereof other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the outstanding Notes.
 
Notwithstanding anything in this Article 8 to the contrary, the Trustee will deliver or pay to the Issuers from time to time upon the request of the Issuers any money or non-callable U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds held by it as provided in Section 8.04 hereof which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (which may be the opinion delivered under Section 8.04(1) hereof), are in excess of the amount thereof that would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent Legal Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance.
 
Section 8.06 Repayment to Issuers.
 
Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Issuers, in trust for the payment of the principal of, premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest on any Note and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Issuers on their request or (if then held by the Issuers) will be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Note will thereafter be permitted to look only to the Issuers for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Issuers as trustee thereof, will thereupon cease; , , that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Issuers cause to be published once, in the New York Times and The Wall Street Journal (national edition), notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which will not be less than 30 days from the date of such notification or publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Issuers.
provided
however
 
Section 8.07 Reinstatement.
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any United States dollars or non-callable U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be, by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Issuers' and the Guarantor's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes and the Note Guarantees will be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 8.02 or 8.03 hereof, as the case may be; , , that, the principles of Section 4.19(b) and () shall apply following such reinstatement; , , that if the Issuers makes any payment of principal of, premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest on any Note following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Issuers will be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided
however
c
provided further
however
 
 
 
Section 9.01 Without Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
Notwithstanding Section 9.02 of this Indenture, the Issuers, the Guarantors and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture, the Note Guarantees or the Notes without the consent of any Holder of a Note:
 
(1) to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency;
 
(2) to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes;
 
(3) to provide for the assumption of the Issuers' obligations to Holders of Notes in the case of a merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Issuers' assets;
 
(4) to add additional Guarantees with respect to the Notes;
 
(5) to secure the Notes;
 
(6) to make any other change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such holder; or
 
(7) to comply with requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
 
Section 9.02 With Consent of Holders of Notes.
 
Except as provided below in this Section 9.02, the Issuers and the Trustee may amend or supplement this Indenture (including, without limitation, Section 3.09, 4.11 and 4.14 hereof), the Note Guarantees and the Notes with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes (including, without limitation, Additional Notes, if any) voting as a single class (including, without limitation, consents obtained in connection with a tender offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes), and, subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, any existing Default or Event of Default (other than a Default or Event of Default in the payment of the principal of, premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, or interest on the Notes, except a payment default resulting from an acceleration that has been rescinded) or compliance with any provision of this Indenture, the Note Guarantees or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes voting as a single class (including consents obtained in connection with a tender
 
offer or exchange offer for, or purchase of, the Notes). Section 2.08 hereof shall determine which Notes are considered to be "outstanding" for purposes of this Section 9.02.
 
It is not be necessary for the consent of the Holders of Notes under this Section 9.02 to approve the particular form of any proposed amendment or waiver, but it is sufficient if such consent approves the substance thereof.
 
After an amendment, supplement or waiver under this Section 9.02 becomes effective, the Issuers will mail to the Holders of Notes affected thereby a notice briefly describing the amendment, supplement or waiver. Any failure of the Issuers to mail such notice, or any defect therein, will not, however, in any way impair or affect the validity of any such amended or supplemental indenture or waiver. Subject to Sections 6.04 and 6.07 hereof, the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Notes then outstanding voting as a single class may waive compliance in a particular instance by the Issuers with any provision of this Indenture or the Notes. However, without the consent of each Holder affected, an amendment or waiver under this Section 9.02 may not (with respect to any Notes held by a non-consenting Holder):
 
(1) reduce the principal amount of Notes whose Holders must consent to an amendment, supplement or waiver;
 
(2) reduce the principal of or change the fixed maturity of any Note or alter the provisions with respect to the redemption of the Notes (other than Sections 3.09, 4.11 and 4.14 hereof);
 
(3) reduce the rate of or change the time for payment of interest on any Note;
 
(4) waive a Default or Event of Default in the payment of principal of, or interest or premium, or Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes (except a rescission of acceleration of the Notes by the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes and a waiver of the payment Default that resulted from such acceleration);
 
(5) make any Note payable in money other than that stated in the Notes;
 
(6) make any change in Section 6.04 or 6.07 hereof relating to waivers of past Defaults or the rights of Holders of Notes to receive payments of principal of, or interest or premium or Liquidated Damages, if any, on the Notes;
 
(7) waive a redemption payment with respect to any Note (other than Sections 4.11 and 4.14 hereof);
 
(8) release any Guarantor from any of its obligations under its Note Guarantee or the Indenture, except in accordance with the terms of the Indenture; or
 
(9) make any change in the amendment and waiver provisions set forth in clauses (1) through (8) of this Section 9.02.
 
Section 9.03 Compliance with Trust Indenture Act.
 
Every amendment or supplement to this Indenture or the Notes will be set forth in a amended or supplemental indenture that complies with the TIA as then in effect.
 
Section 9.04 Revocation and Effect of Consents.
 
Until an amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective, a consent to it by a Holder of a Note is a continuing consent by the Holder of a Note and every subsequent Holder of a Note or portion of a Note that evidences the same debt as the consenting Holder's Note, even if notation of the consent is not made on any Note. However, any such Holder of a Note or subsequent Holder of a Note may revoke the consent as to its Note if the Trustee receives written notice of revocation before the date the waiver, supplement or amendment becomes effective. An amendment, supplement or waiver becomes effective in accordance with its terms and thereafter binds every Holder.
 
Section 9.05 Notation on or Exchange of Notes.
 
The Trustee may place an appropriate notation about an amendment, supplement or waiver on any Note thereafter authenticated. The Issuers in exchange for all Notes may issue and the Trustee shall, upon receipt of an Authentication Order, authenticate new Notes that reflect the amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
Failure to make the appropriate notation or issue a new Note will not affect the validity and effect of such amendment, supplement or waiver.
 
Section 9.06 Trustee to Sign Amendments, etc.
 
Upon the request of the Issuers accompanied by a resolution of their Board of Directors authorizing the execution of any amended or supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence satisfactory to the Trustee of the consent of the Holders of Notes as aforesaid, and upon receipt by the Trustee of the documents described in Section 7.02 hereof, the Trustee will join with the Issuers in the execution of an amended or supplemental indenture unless such amended or supplemental indenture directly affects the Trustee's own rights, duties, liabilities or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but will not be obligated to, enter into such amended or supplemental indenture. In executing any
 
amended or supplemental indenture, the Trustee will be entitled to receive and (subject to Section 7.01 hereof) will be fully protected in relying upon, in addition to the documents required by Section 12.04 hereof, an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such amended or supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture.
 
 
 
Section 10.01 Note Guarantee.
 
(a) Subject to this Article 10, each of the Guarantors hereby, jointly and severally, unconditionally guarantees to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, irrespective of the validity and enforceability of this Indenture, the Notes or the obligations of the Issuers hereunder or thereunder, that:
 
(1) the principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Issuers to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
 
(2) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise.
 
Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors will be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately. Each Guarantor agrees that this is a guarantee of payment and not a guarantee of collection.
 
(b) The Guarantors hereby agree that their obligations hereunder are unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or this Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Issuers, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a guarantor, other than payment in full of all obligations under the Notes. Each Guarantor hereby waives diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Issuers, any right to require a proceeding first
 
against the Issuers, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever and covenant that this Note Guarantee will not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and this Indenture.
 
(c) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Issuers, the Guarantors or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Issuers or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, will be reinstated in full force and effect.
 
(d) Each Guarantor agrees that it will not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby. Each Guarantor further agrees that, as between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, () the maturity of the obligations guaranteed hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 hereof for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and () in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 hereof, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) will forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee. The Guarantors will have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee.
1
2
 
Section 10.02 Limitation on Guarantor Liability.
 
Each Guarantor, and by its acceptance of Notes, each Holder, hereby confirms that it is the intention of all such parties that the Note Guarantee of such Guarantor not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance for purposes of Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to any Note Guarantee. To effectuate the foregoing intention, the Trustee, the Holders and the Guarantors hereby irrevocably agree that the obligations of such Guarantor will, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of such Guarantor that are relevant under such laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under this Article 10, result in the obligations of such Guarantor under its Note Guarantee not constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
 
Section 10.03 Execution and Delivery of Note Guarantee.
 
To evidence its Note Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01, each Guarantor hereby agrees that a notation of such Note Guarantee substantially in the form attached as
 
Exhibit E hereto will be endorsed by an Officer of such Guarantor on each Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and that this Indenture will be executed on behalf of such Guarantor by one of its Officers.
 
Each Guarantor hereby agrees that its Note Guarantee set forth in Section 10.01 will remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Note Guarantee.
 
If an Officer whose signature is on this Indenture or on the Note Guarantee no longer holds that office at the time the Trustee authenticates the Note on which a Note Guarantee is endorsed, the Note Guarantee will be valid nevertheless.
 
The delivery of any Note by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, will constitute due delivery of the Note Guarantee set forth in this Indenture on behalf of the Guarantors.
 
In the event that the Issuers create or acquire any Restricted Subsidiary after the date of this Indenture, if required by Section 4.16 hereof, the Issuers will cause such Restricted Subsidiary to comply with the provisions of Section 4.16 hereof and this Article 10, to the extent applicable.
 
Section 10.04 Guarantors May Consolidate, etc., on Certain Terms.
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 10.05, no Guarantor may sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person), another Person, other than the Issuers or another Guarantor, unless:
 
(1) immediately after giving effect to that transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and
 
(2) subject to Section 10.05 hereof, the Person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger assumes all the obligations of that Guarantor under the Indenture, its Note Guarantee and the Registration Rights Agreement pursuant a supplemental indenture in the form of Exhibit F attached hereto.
 
In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, in the form of Exhibit F attached hereto, of the Note Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of this Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person will succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Note Guarantees to be
 
endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable hereunder which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Issuers and delivered to the Trustee. All the Note Guarantees so issued will in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under this Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of this Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
 
Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 hereof, and notwithstanding this Section 10.04, nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Notes will prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Issuers or another Guarantor, or will prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Issuers or another Guarantor.
 
Section 10.05 Releases Following Sale of Assets.
 
The Note Guarantee of a Guarantor will be released, and any Person acquiring assets (including by way of merger or consolidation) or Capital Stock of a Guarantor in accordance with the provisions of (1) or (2) below shall not be required to assume the obligations of any such Guarantor:
 
(1) in connection with any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of that Guarantor (including by way of merger or consolidation) to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transaction) a Restricted Subsidiary (other than a Permitted Joint Venture) of Ventas, Inc., if the sale or other disposition complies with Section 4.11 hereof;
 
(2) in connection with any sale of all of the Capital Stock of a Guarantor to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transaction) a Restricted Subsidiary (other than a Permitted Joint Venture) of Ventas, Inc., if the sale complies with Section 4.11 hereof;
 
(3) if the Issuers or Ventas, Inc. designate any Restricted Subsidiary that is a Guarantor to be an Excluded Joint Venture or an Unrestricted Subsidiary in accordance with the applicable provisions of this Indenture; or
 
(4) in the event that the Issuers exercise their discharge or full defeasance options pursuant to Article 8.
 
Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee will remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under this Indenture as provided in this Article 10.
 
Section 10.06 Releases Following Investment Grade Ratings.
 
In addition, if, following the date of this Indenture:
 
(1) the Notes are rated both Baa3 or better by Moody's and BBB- or better by S&P (or, if either such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of Ventas, Inc., the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as that term is used in Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by Ventas, Inc. as a replacement agency);
 
(2) each rating agency specified in clause (1) above provides written notice to the Issuers and the Trustee stating that the release of all of the Note Guarantees will not cause the rating assigned by such rating agency to decline to below Baa3 or BBB-, as applicable; and
 
(3) no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing,
 
then, beginning on that day, the Note Guarantee of each Guarantor will be released. The Issuers shall provide the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate stating that the conditions set forth in clauses (1), (2) and (3) above have been satisfied.
 
 
 
Section 11.01 Satisfaction and Discharge.
 
This Indenture will be discharged and will cease to be of further effect as to all Notes issued hereunder, when:
 
(1) either:
 
(A) all Notes that have been authenticated (except lost, stolen or destroyed Notes that have been replaced or paid and Notes for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust and thereafter repaid to the Issuers) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(B) all Notes that have not been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation have become due and payable by reason of the making of a notice of redemption or otherwise or will become due and payable within one year and the Issuers or any Guarantor has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust solely for the
 
benefit of the Holders, cash in U.S. dollars, non-callable U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds, or a combination thereof, in such amounts as will be sufficient without consideration of any reinvestment of interest, to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on the Notes not delivered to the Trustee for cancellation for principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and accrued interest to the date of maturity or redemption;
 
(2) no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing on the date of such deposit or will occur as a result of such deposit and such deposit will not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, any other instrument to which the Issuers or any Guarantor are a party or by which the Issuers or any Guarantor are bound;
 
(3) the Issuers or any Guarantor have paid or caused to be paid all sums payable by them under this Indenture; and
 
(4) the Issuers have delivered irrevocable instructions to the Trustee under this Indenture to apply the deposited money toward the payment of the Notes at maturity or the redemption date, as the case may be.
 
In addition, the Issuers must deliver an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee stating that all conditions precedent to satisfaction and discharge have been satisfied.
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, if money has been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section, the provisions of Section 11.02 and Section 8.06 will survive. In addition, nothing in this Section 11.01 will be deemed to discharge those provisions of Section 7.07 hereof, that, by their terms, survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
 
Section 11.02 Application of Trust Money.
 
Subject to the provisions of Section 8.06, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 11.01 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Notes and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Issuers acting as their own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for whose payment such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
If the Trustee or Paying Agent is unable to apply any money or U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds in accordance with Section 11.01 by reason of any legal proceeding or by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental
 
authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, the Issuers' and any Guarantor's obligations under this Indenture and the Notes shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 11.01; that the principles of Section 4.19(b) and () shall apply; , , if the Issuers have made any payment of principal of, premium, if any, or interest on any Notes because of the reinstatement of their obligations, the Issuers shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Notes to receive such payment from the money or U.S. government or U.S. government agency notes or bonds held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
provided
c
provided further
however
 
 
 
Section 12.01 Trust Indenture Act Controls.
 
If any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with the duties imposed by TIA 318(c), the imposed duties will control.
 
Section 12.02 Notices.
 
Any notice or communication by the Issuers, any Guarantor or the Trustee to the others is duly given if in writing and delivered in Person or mailed by first class mail (registered or certified, return receipt requested), telex, telecopier or overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery, to the others' address:
 
If to the Issuers and/or any Guarantor:
 
Ventas, Inc.
10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
Telecopier No.: (502) 357-9001
Attention: General Counsel
 
With a copy to:
Willkie Farr & Gallagher
787 Seventh Avenue
New York, New York 10019-6099
Telecopier No.: (212) 728-8111
Attention: Leslie Mazza, Esquire
 
If to the Trustee:
 
U.S. Bank National Association
425 Walnut ML CN WN 06 CT
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Telecopier No.: (513) 632-5511
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
The Issuers, any Guarantor or the Trustee, by notice to the others may designate additional or different addresses for subsequent notices or communications.
 
All notices and communications (other than those sent to Holders) will be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt acknowledged, if telecopied; and the next Business Day after timely delivery to the courier, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
 
Any notice or communication to a Holder will be mailed by first class mail, certified or registered, return receipt requested, or by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery to its address shown on the register kept by the Registrar. Any notice or communication will also be so mailed to any Person described in TIA  313(c), to the extent required by the TIA. Failure to mail a notice or communication to a Holder or any defect in it will not affect its sufficiency with respect to other Holders.
 
If a notice or communication is mailed in the manner provided above within the time prescribed, it is duly given, whether or not the addressee receives it.
 
If the Issuers mail a notice or communication to Holders, it will mail a copy to the Trustee and each Agent at the same time.
 
Section 12.03 Communication by Holders of Notes with Other Holders of Notes.
 
Holders may communicate pursuant to TIA  312(b) with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or the Notes. The Issuers, the Trustee, the Registrar and anyone else shall have the protection of TIA  312(c).
 
Section 12.04 Certificate and Opinion as to Conditions Precedent.
 
Upon any request or application by the Issuers to the Trustee to take any action under this Indenture, the Issuers shall furnish to the Trustee:
 
(1) an Officers' Certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which must include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of the signers, all conditions precedent
 
and covenants, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been satisfied; and
 
(2) an Opinion of Counsel in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee (which must include the statements set forth in Section 12.05 hereof) stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, all such conditions precedent and covenants have been satisfied.
 
Section 12.05 Statements Required in Certificate or Opinion.
 
Each certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than a certificate provided pursuant to TIA  314(a)(4)) must comply with the provisions of TIA  314(e) and must include:
 
(1) a statement that the Person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition;
 
(2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
 
(3) a statement that, in the opinion of such Person, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him or her to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been satisfied; and
 
(4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such Person, such condition or covenant has been satisfied.
 
Section 12.06 Rules by Trustee and Agents.
 
The Trustee may make reasonable rules for action by or at a meeting of Holders. The Registrar or Paying Agent may make reasonable rules and set reasonable requirements for its functions.
 
Section 12.07 No Personal Liability of Directors, Officers, Employees and Stockholders.
 
No director, officer, employee or stockholder of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries, as such, will have any liability for any obligations of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries under the Notes or the Indenture based on, in respect of, or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The foregoing waiver and release are an integral part of the consideration or the issuance of the Notes.
 
Section 12.08 Governing Law.
 
THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WILL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES AND THE NOTE GUARANTEES WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
 
Section 12.09 No Adverse Interpretation of Other Agreements.
 
This Indenture may not be used to interpret any other indenture, loan or debt agreement of the Issuers or their Subsidiaries or of any other Person. Any such indenture, loan or debt agreement may not be used to interpret this Indenture.
 
Section 12.10 Successors.
 
All agreements of the Issuers in this Indenture and the Notes will bind its successors. All agreements of the Trustee in this Indenture will bind its successors. All agreements of each Guarantor in this Indenture will bind its successors, except as otherwise provided in Section 10.05.
 
Section 12.11 Severability.
 
In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Notes is invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
 
Section 12.12 Counterpart Originals.
 
The parties may sign any number of copies of this Indenture. Each signed copy will be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
 
Section 12.13 Table of Contents, Headings, etc.
 
The Table of Contents, Cross-Reference Table and Headings of the Articles and Sections of this Indenture have been inserted for convenience of reference only, are not to be considered a part of this Indenture and will in no way modify or restrict any of the terms or provisions hereof.
 
 
 
Dated as of October 15, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following schedule lists each Guarantor under the Indenture as of the date of the Indenture:
 
Ventas, Inc.
Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C.
Ventas Healthcare Properties, Inc.
Ventas TRS, LLC
ElderTrust
ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership
ET Capital Corp.
ET Sub-Berkshire Limited Partnership
ET Berkshire, LLC
Cabot ALF, L.L.C.
Cleveland ALF, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Heritage Woods, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Highgate, L.P.
ET GENPAR, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Lacey I, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Lehigh Limited Partnership
ET Lehigh, LLC
ET Sub-Lopatcong, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Pennsburg Manor Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Pennsburg Finance, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Phillipsburg I, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Pleasant View, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Rittenhouse Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Sub-Riverview Ridge Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Sub-Sanatoga Limited Partnership
ET Sanatoga, LLC
ET Sub-SMOB, L.L.C.
Vernon ALF, L.L.C.
ET Sub-Willowbrook Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Sub-Wayne I Limited Partnership, L.L.P.
ET Wayne Finance, L.L.C.
ET Wayne Finance, Inc.
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
CUSIP/CINS
            
 
 
 
 
 
 
promises to pay to CEDE & CO.
 
or registered assigns,
 
the principal sum of
                                                                                      
 
Dollars on , 20.
                    
    
 
Interest Payment Dates: April 15 and October 15
 
Record Dates: April 1 and October 1
 
Dated: , 200
                
    
 
 
 
 
 
[Insert the Global Note Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
 
[Insert the Private Placement Legend, if applicable pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture]
 
Capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture referred to below unless otherwise indicated.
 
(1) . Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the ""), promise to pay interest on the principal amount of this Note at 6
Interest
Issuers
 5
/
8
% per annum from October 15, 2004 until maturity and shall pay the Liquidated Damages, if any, payable pursuant to Section 4 of the Registration Rights Agreement referred to below. The Issuers will pay interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, semi-annually in arrears on April 15 and October 15 of each year, or if any such day is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day (each, an ""). Interest on the Notes will accrue from the most recent date to which interest has been paid or, if no interest has been paid, from the date of issuance; that if there is no existing Default in the payment of interest, and if this Note is authenticated between a record date referred to on the face hereof and the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, interest shall accrue from such next succeeding Interest Payment Date; , that the first Interest Payment Date shall be April 15, 2005. The Issuers will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue principal and premium, if any, from time to time on demand at a rate that is 1% per annum in excess of the rate then in effect; the Issuers will pay interest (including post-petition interest in any proceeding under any Bankruptcy Law) on overdue installments of interest and Liquidated Damages, if any, (without regard to any applicable grace periods) from time to time on demand at the same rate to the extent lawful. Interest will be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
Interest Payment Date
provided
provided, further
 
(2) . The Issuers will pay interest on the Notes (except defaulted interest) and Liquidated Damages, if any, to the Persons who are registered Holders of Notes at the close of business on the April 1 or October 1 next preceding the Interest Payment Date, even if such Notes are canceled after such record date and on or before such Interest Payment Date, except as provided in Section 2.12 of the Indenture with respect to defaulted interest. The Notes will be payable as to principal, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest at the office or agency of the Issuers maintained for such purpose within or
Method of Payment
 
without the City and State of New York, or, at the option of the Issuers, payment of interest and Liquidated Damages, if any may be made by check mailed to the Holders at their addresses set forth in the register of Holders; that payment by wire transfer of immediately available funds will be required with respect to principal of and interest, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, on, all Global Notes and all other Notes the Holders of which will have provided wire transfer instructions to the Issuers or the Paying Agent. Such payment will be in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts.
provided
 
(3) . Initially, U.S. Bank National Association, the Trustee under the Indenture, will act as Paying Agent and Registrar. The Issuers may change any Paying Agent or Registrar without notice to any Holder. The Issuers or any of their Subsidiaries may act in any such capacity.
Paying Agent and Registrar
 
(4) . The Issuers issued the Notes under an Indenture dated as of October 15, 2004 (the "") among the Issuers, the Guarantors and the Trustee. The terms of the Notes include those stated in the Indenture and those made part of the Indenture by reference to the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (15 U.S. Code  77aaa-77bbbb). The Notes are subject to all such terms, and Holders are referred to the Indenture and such Act for a statement of such terms. To the extent any provision of this Note conflicts with the express provisions of the Indenture, the provisions of the Indenture shall govern and be controlling. The Notes are unsecured obligations of the Issuers.
Indenture
Indenture
 
(5) (a) The Issuers may redeem the Notes at any time prior to October 15, 2009, at their option, in whole or from time to time in part, at a redemption price equal to the sum of () the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed, () accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the redemption date and () the Make-Whole Amount, if any, with respect to the Notes.
Optional Redemption.
i
ii
iii
 
The Issuers may also redeem the Notes at any time on or after October 15, 2009, at their option, in whole or from time to time in part, at the redemption prices (expressed as percentages of the principal amount thereof) set forth below, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the redemption date, if redeemed during the 12-month period beginning on October 15 of each of the years indicated below:
 
 
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of clause (a) of this Section 5, at any time prior to October 15, 2007, the Issuers may redeem, at their option, on any one or more occasions, with all or a portion of the net cash proceeds of one or more Equity Offerings, up to 35% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes originally issued under this Indenture at a redemption price equal to 106.625% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the redemption date, :
provided that
 
(1) at least 65% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes originally issued under the Indenture remains outstanding immediately after the occurrence of each such redemption; and
 
(2) the redemption must occur within 60 days of the consummation of any such Equity Offering.
 
(c) Any redemption of the Notes shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 3.01 through 3.06 of the Indenture.
 
(6) .
Mandatory Redemption
 
The Issuers will not be required to make mandatory redemption payments with respect to the Notes.
 
(7) .
Repurchase at Option of Holder
 
(a) If a Change of Control occurs, each holder of Notes will have the right to require the Issuers to purchase some or all (in principal amounts of $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000) of such holder's Notes pursuant to the offer described below (the ""), unless, after giving pro forma effect to the Change of Control, () Moody's and S&P shall have confirmed their ratings of the Notes at Ba3 or higher and BB- or higher, respectively, () the ratio of Consolidated Income Available for Debt Service to Annual Debt Service for the four consecutive fiscal quarters ended on the most recent Measurement Date prior to the date of such Change of Control after such Change of Control is at least equal to the ratio of Consolidated Income Available for Debt Service to Annual Debt Service prior to such Change of Control and () the Person formed by or surviving any consolidation or merger (if
Change of Control Offer
i
ii
iii
 
other than the Partnership) or to which any sale, assignment, transfer, conveyance or other disposition has been made forming the basis of the Change of Control is principally engaged in a Permitted Business.
 
Any Change of Control Offer will include a cash offer price of 101% of the principal amount of any Notes purchased plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the ""). If a Change of Control Offer is required, within 10 Business Days following a Change of Control, the Issuers shall mail a notice to each holder describing the Change of Control and offering to repurchase Notes on a specified date (the ""). The Change of Control Payment Date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date the notice is mailed.
Change of Control Payment
Change of Control Payment Date
 
(b) If Ventas, Inc. or a Restricted Subsidiary consummates any Asset Sales or Qualified CMBS Transactions, within five days of each date on which the aggregate amount of Excess Proceeds exceeds $35.0 million, the Issuers will commence an offer to all Holders of Notes and all holders of other Debt that is with the Notes containing provisions similar to those set forth in the Indenture with respect to offers to purchase or redeem with the proceeds of sales of assets (an "" or "," as the case may be) pursuant to Section 3.09 of the Indenture to purchase the maximum principal amount of Notes and other Debt that may be purchased out of the Excess Proceeds at an offer price in cash in an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest and Liquidated Damages thereon, if any, to the date fixed for the closing of such offer, in accordance with the procedures set forth in the Indenture. To the extent that the aggregate amount of Notes and other Debt tendered pursuant to an Asset Sale Offer or Qualified CMBS Transaction, as the case may be, is less than the Excess Proceeds, Ventas, Inc. (or such Restricted Subsidiary) may use such deficiency for any purpose not otherwise prohibited by the Indenture. If the aggregate principal amount of Notes and other Debt surrendered by holders thereof exceeds the amount of Excess Proceeds, the Trustee shall select the Notes and other Debt to be purchased on a basis. Holders of Notes that are the subject of an offer to purchase will receive an Asset Sale Offer or a Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer, as the case may be, from the Issuers prior to any related purchase date and may elect to have such Notes purchased by completing the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Notes.
pari passu
Asset Sale Offer
Qualified CMBS Transaction Offer
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pari passu
pro rata
 
(8) . Notice of redemption will be mailed at least 30 days but not more than 60 days before the redemption date to each Holder whose Notes are to be redeemed at its registered address. Notes in denominations larger than $1,000 may be redeemed in part but only in whole multiples of $1,000, unless all of the Notes held by a Holder are to be redeemed. On and after the redemption date interest ceases to accrue on Notes or portions thereof called for redemption.
Notice of Redemption
 
(9) . The Notes are in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples of $1,000. The transfer of Notes may be registered and Notes may be exchanged as provided in the Indenture. The Registrar and the Trustee may require a Holder, among other things, to furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the Issuers may require a Holder to pay any taxes and fees required by law or permitted by the Indenture. The Issuers need not exchange or register the transfer of any Note or portion of a Note selected for redemption, except for the unredeemed portion of any Note being redeemed in part. Also, the Issuers need not exchange or register the transfer of any Notes for a period of 15 days before a selection of Notes to be redeemed or during the period between a record date and the corresponding Interest Payment Date.
Denominations, Transfer, Exchange
 
(10) . The registered Holder of a Note may be treated as its owner for all purposes.
Persons Deemed Owners
 
(11) . Subject to certain exceptions, the Indenture, the Note Guarantees or the Notes may be amended or supplemented with the consent of the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, including Additional Notes, if any, voting as a single class, and any existing default or compliance with any provision of the Indenture, the Note Guarantees or the Notes may be waived with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes, including Additional Notes, if any, voting as a single class. Without the consent of any Holder of a Note, the Indenture, the Note Guarantees or the Notes may be amended or supplemented to cure any ambiguity, defect or inconsistency; to provide for uncertificated Notes in addition to or in place of certificated Notes; to provide for the assumption of the Issuers' obligations to Holders of Notes in the case of a merger or consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of the Issuers' assets; add additional Guarantees with respect to the Notes; secure the Notes; to make any other change that would provide any additional rights or benefits to the Holders of Notes or that does not adversely affect the legal rights under the Indenture of any such holder; or to comply with requirements of the Commission in order to effect or maintain the qualification of the applicable Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act.
Amendment, Supplement and Waiver
 
(12) . Events of Default include: () default in the payment of principal or any premium on the Notes when due and payable; () default in the payment of interest on the Notes within 30 days after the applicable due date; () failure to make or consummate a Change of Control Offer following a Change of Control when required under Section 4.14; () breach of any other term of the Indenture for 60 days after receipt of notice of Default stating the Issuers are in breach; () certain final judgments are entered against Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries and are not paid, discharged or stayed for a period of 60 days; () default under any of certain Debt of Ventas, Inc. and its Restricted Subsidiaries, which default results in the acceleration of the maturity of such indebtedness, unless such other Debt is discharged, or the acceleration is rescinded or annulled, within 10 days after Ventas, Inc. or its Restricted Subsidiaries receives notice of the default; () certain events in bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization occur with respect to Ventas, Inc. or any of its Significant Subsidiaries or any group of Subsidiaries that, taken as a whole, would constitute a Significant Subsidiary. If any Event of Default occurs and is continuing, the Trustee or the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may declare all the Notes to be due and payable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of an Event of Default arising from certain events of bankruptcy or insolvency, all outstanding Notes will become due and payable without further action or notice. Holders may not enforce the Indenture or the Notes except as provided in the Indenture. Subject to certain limitations, Holders of a majority in principal amount of the then outstanding Notes may direct the Trustee in its exercise of any trust or power. The Trustee may withhold from Holders of the Notes notice of any continuing Default or Event of Default (except a Default or Event of Default relating to the payment of principal or interest) if it determines that withholding notice is in their interest. The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Notes by notice to the Trustee may on behalf of the Holders of all of the Notes waive any existing Default or Event of Default and its consequences under the Indenture except a continuing Default or Event of Default in the payment of interest on, or the principal of, the Notes. The Issuers are required to deliver to the Trustee annually a statement regarding compliance with the Indenture, and the Issuers are required upon becoming aware of any Default or Event of Default, to deliver to the Trustee a statement specifying such Default or Event of Default.
Defaults and Remedies
i
ii
iii
iv
v
vi
vii
 
(13) . The Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may make loans to, accept deposits from, and perform services for the Issuers or their Affiliates, and may otherwise deal with the Issuers or its Affiliates, as if it were not the Trustee.
Trustee Dealings with Issuers
 
(14) . No director, officer, employee or stockholder of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries, as such, will have any
No Recourse Against Others
 
liability for any obligations of Ventas, Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries under the Notes or the Indenture based on, in respect of, or by reason of such obligations or their creation. Each holder by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The foregoing waiver and release are an integral part of the consideration or the issuance of the Notes.
 
(15) . This Note will not be valid until authenticated by the manual signature of the Trustee or an authenticating agent.
Authentication
 
(16) . Customary abbreviations may be used in the name of a Holder or an assignee, such as: TEN COM (= tenants in common), TEN ENT (= tenants by the entireties), JT TEN (= joint tenants with right of survivorship and not as tenants in common), CUST (= Custodian), and U/G/M/A (= Uniform Gifts to Minors Act).
Abbreviations
 
(17) . In addition to the rights provided to Holders of Notes under the Indenture, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes will have all the rights set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of October 15, 2004, among the Issuers, certain Guarantors and the other parties named on the signature pages thereof or, in the case of Additional Notes, Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes will have the rights set forth in one or more registration rights agreements, if any, among the Issuers, the Guarantors and the other parties thereto, relating to rights given by the Issuers and the Guarantors to the purchasers of any Additional Notes (collectively, the "").
Additional Rights of Holders of Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes
Registration Rights Agreement
 
(18) . Pursuant to a recommendation promulgated by the Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures, the Issuers have caused CUSIP numbers to be printed on the Notes and the Trustee may use CUSIP numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders. No representation is made as to the accuracy of such numbers either as printed on the Notes or as contained in any notice of redemption and reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers placed thereon.
CUSIP Numbers
 
The Issuers will furnish to any Holder upon written request and without charge a copy of the Indenture and/or the Registration Rights Agreement. Requests may be made to:
 
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership,
Ventas Capital Corporation
c/o Ventas, Inc.
10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
Attention: General Counsel
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
To assign this Note, fill in the form below:
 
 
Date:
                        
 
 
Signature Guarantee*:
                                                         
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
If you want to elect to have this Note purchased by the Issuers pursuant to Section 4.11 or 4.14 of the Indenture, check the appropriate box below:
 
 
If you want to elect to have only part of the Note purchased by the Issuers pursuant to Section 4.11 or Section 4.14 of the Indenture, state the amount you elect to have purchased:
 
 
Date:
                        
 
 
Signature Guarantee*:
                    
 
 
The following exchanges of a part of this Global Note for an interest in another Global Note or for a Definitive Note, or exchanges of a part of another Global Note or Definitive Note for an interest in this Global Note, have been made:
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
 
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership,
Ventas Capital Corporation
c/o Ventas, Inc.
10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
 
[Registrar address block]
 
Re: 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of October 15, 2004 (the ""), among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, as issuers (collectively, the ""), the Guarantors named on the signature pages thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Issuers
 
, (the "") owns and proposes to transfer the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified in Annex A hereto, in the principal amount of $ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""), to (the ""), as further specified in Annex A hereto. In connection with the Transfer, the Transferor hereby certifies that:
                            
Transferor
                
Transfer
                                    
Transferee
 
 
1.
. The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that the beneficial interest or Definitive Note is being transferred to a Person that the Transferor reasonably believed and believes is purchasing the beneficial interest or Definitive Note for its own account, or for one or more accounts with respect to which such Person exercises sole investment discretion, and such Person and each such account is a "qualified institutional buyer" within the meaning of Rule 144A in a transaction meeting the requirements of Rule 144A and such Transfer is in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the 144A Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the 144A Global Note or a Definitive Note Pursuant to Rule 144A
Securities Act
 
2.
. The
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the Regulation S Global Note or a Definitive Note pursuant to Regulation S
 
Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and, accordingly, the Transferor hereby further certifies that () the Transfer is not being made to a Person in the United States and () at the time the buy order was originated, the Transferee was outside the United States or such Transferor and any Person acting on its behalf reasonably believed and believes that the Transferee was outside the United States or () the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither such Transferor nor any Person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a buyer in the United States, () no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(b) or Rule 904(b) of Regulation S under the Securities Act, () the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act and () if the proposed transfer is being made prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, the transfer is not being made to a U.S. Person or for the account or benefit of a U.S. Person (other than an Initial Purchaser). Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on Transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Regulation S Global Note and/or the Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
i
x
y
ii
iii
iv
 
3.
. The Transfer is being effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in Restricted Global Notes and Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States, and accordingly the Transferor hereby further certifies that (check one):
Check and complete if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in the IAI Global Note or a Definitive Note pursuant to any provision of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A or Regulation S
 
(a)    
such Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act;
 
 
(b)    
such Transfer is being effected to the Issuers or a subsidiary thereof;
 
 
(c)    
such Transfer is being effected pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act and in compliance with the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act;
 
 
(d)    
such Transfer is being effected to an Institutional Accredited Investor and pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144A, Rule 144 or Rule 904, and the Transferor hereby further certifies that it has not engaged in any general solicitation within the meaning of Regulation D under the Securities Act and the Transfer complies with the transfer restrictions applicable to beneficial interests in a Restricted Global Note or Restricted Definitive Notes and the requirements of the exemption claimed, which certification is supported by a certificate executed by the Transferee in the form of Exhibit D to the Indenture. Upon consummation of the proposed transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the IAI Global Note and/or the Definitive Notes and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
4.
.
Check if Transferee will take delivery of a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note or of an Unrestricted Definitive Note
 
(a)
. () The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and () the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and are no longer applicable. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is pursuant to Rule 144
i
ii
 
(b)
. () The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 903 or Rule 904 under the Securities Act and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States and () the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and are no longer applicable. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will no longer be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes, on Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Regulation S
i
ii
 
(c)
. () The Transfer is being effected pursuant to and in compliance with an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act other than Rule 144, Rule 903 or Rule 904 and in compliance with the transfer restrictions contained in the Indenture and any applicable blue sky securities laws of any State of the United States and () the restrictions on
Check if Transfer is Pursuant to Other Exemption
i
ii
 
transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and are no longer applicable. Upon consummation of the proposed Transfer in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the transferred beneficial interest or Definitive Note will not be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Global Notes or Restricted Definitive Notes and in the Indenture.
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Issuers.
 
Dated:
                    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in accordance with the terms of the Indenture.
 
EXHIBIT C
 
 
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership,
Ventas Capital Corporation
c/o Ventas, Inc.
10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
 
[Registrar address block]
 
Re: 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of October 15, 2004 (the ""), among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, as issuers (collectively, the ""), the Guarantors named on the signature pages thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Issuers
 
, (the "Owner") owns and proposes to exchange the Note[s] or interest in such Note[s] specified herein, in the principal amount of $ in such Note[s] or interests (the ""). In connection with the Exchange, the Owner hereby certifies that:
                                
                
Exchange
 
1.
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in a Restricted Global Note for Unrestricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in an Unrestricted Global Note
 
(a)
. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note in an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies () the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, () such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), () the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act are no longer applicable and () the beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
i
ii
Securities Act
iii
iv
 
(b)
. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies () the Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, () such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, () the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and are no longer applicable and () the Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
i
ii
iii
iv
 
(c)
. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note, the Owner hereby certifies () the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, () such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, () the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and are no longer applicable and () the beneficial interest is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in an Unrestricted Global Note
i
ii
iii
iv
 
(d)
. In connection with the Owner's Exchange of a Restricted Definitive Note for an Unrestricted Definitive Note, the Owner hereby certifies () the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer, () such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to Restricted Definitive Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, () the restrictions on transfer contained in the Indenture and the Private Placement Legend are not required in order to maintain compliance with the Securities Act and are no longer applicable and () the Unrestricted Definitive Note is being acquired in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States.
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to Unrestricted Definitive Note
i
ii
iii
iv
 
2.
Exchange of Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes for Restricted Definitive Notes or Beneficial Interests in Restricted Global Notes
 
(a)
In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note for a Restricted Definitive Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies that the Restricted Definitive Note is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer. Upon consummation of
Check if Exchange is from beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note to Restricted Definitive Note.
 
the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the Restricted Definitive Note issued will continue to be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the Restricted Definitive Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
 
(b)
. In connection with the Exchange of the Owner's Restricted Definitive Note for a beneficial interest in the [CHECK ONE]
Check if Exchange is from Restricted Definitive Note to beneficial interest in a Restricted Global Note
144A Global Note,
Regulation S Global Note,
IAI Global Note with an equal principal amount, the Owner hereby certifies () the beneficial interest is being acquired for the Owner's own account without transfer and () such Exchange has been effected in compliance with the transfer restrictions applicable to the Restricted Global Notes and pursuant to and in accordance with the Securities Act, and in compliance with any applicable blue sky securities laws of any state of the United States. Upon consummation of the proposed Exchange in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, the beneficial interest issued will be subject to the restrictions on transfer enumerated in the Private Placement Legend printed on the relevant Restricted Global Note and in the Indenture and the Securities Act.
i
ii
 
This certificate and the statements contained herein are made for your benefit and the benefit of the Issuers.
 
Dated:
                    
 
EXHIBIT D
 
 
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership,
Ventas Capital Corporation
c/o Ventas, Inc.
10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300
Louisville, Kentucky 40223
 
[Registrar address block]
 
Re: 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014
 
Reference is hereby made to the Indenture, dated as of October 15, 2004 (the ""), among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, as issuers (collectively, the ""), the Guarantors named on the signature pages thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture.
Indenture
Issuers
 
In connection with our proposed purchase of $ aggregate principal amount of:
                    
 
(a)
a beneficial interest in a Global Note, or
 
(b)
a Definitive Note,
 
we confirm that:
 
1. We understand that any subsequent transfer of the Notes or any interest therein is subject to certain restrictions and conditions set forth in the Indenture and the undersigned agrees to be bound by, and not to resell, pledge or otherwise transfer the Notes or any interest therein except in compliance with, such restrictions and conditions and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "").
Securities Act
 
2. We understand that the offer and sale of the Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act, and that the Notes and any interest therein may not be offered or sold except as permitted in the following sentence. We agree, on our own behalf and on behalf of any accounts for which we are acting as hereinafter stated, that if we should sell the Notes or any interest therein, we will do so only () to the Issuers or any subsidiary thereof, () in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act to a "qualified institutional buyer" (as defined therein), () to an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined below) that, prior to such transfer, furnishes (or has furnished on its behalf by a U.S. broker-dealer) to you and to the Issuers a signed letter substantially in the form of this letter, () outside the United States in accordance with Rule 904 of
A
B
C
D
 
Regulation S under the Securities Act, () pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act or () pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, and we further agree to provide to any Person purchasing the Definitive Note or beneficial interest in a Global Note from us in a transaction meeting the requirements of clauses (A) through (E) of this paragraph a notice advising such purchaser that resales thereof are restricted as stated herein.
E
F
 
3. We understand that, on any proposed resale of the Notes or beneficial interest therein, we will be required to furnish to you and the Issuers such certifications, legal opinions and other information as you and the Issuers may reasonably require to confirm that the proposed sale complies with the foregoing restrictions. We further understand that the Notes purchased by us will bear a legend to the foregoing effect.
 
4. We are an institutional "accredited investor" (as defined in Rule 501(a)(1), (), () or () of Regulation D under the Securities Act) and have such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters as to be capable of evaluating the merits and risks of our investment in the Notes, and we and any accounts for which we are acting are each able to bear the economic risk of our or its investment.
2
3
7
 
5. We are acquiring the Notes or beneficial interest therein purchased by us for our own account or for one or more accounts (each of which is an institutional "") as to each of which we exercise sole investment discretion.
accredited investor
 
You and the Issuers are entitled to rely upon this letter and are irrevocably authorized to produce this letter or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceedings or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
 
Dated:
                    
 
EXHIBIT E
 
 
For value received, each Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture) has, jointly and severally, unconditionally guaranteed, to the extent set forth in the Indenture and subject to the provisions in the Indenture dated as of October 15, 2004 (as amended, or supplemented from time to time, the "") among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation, (collectively, the ""), the Guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the ""), () the due and punctual payment of the principal of, premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Notes (as defined in the Indenture), whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, the due and punctual payment of interest on overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and the due and punctual performance of all other obligations of the Issuers to the Holders or the Trustee all in accordance with the terms of the Indenture and () in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that the same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. The obligations of the Guarantors to the Holders of Notes and to the Trustee pursuant to the Note Guarantee and the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article 10 of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Note Guarantee. Each Holder of a Note, by accepting the same, agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions.
Indenture
Issuers
Trustee
a
b
 
 
EXHIBIT F
 
 
Supplemental Indenture (this ""), dated as of , 200, among (the ""), a subsidiary of Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership or Ventas Capital Corporation (or their permitted successor) (collectively, the ""), the Issuers, the other Guarantors (as defined in the Indenture referred to herein) and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee under the indenture referred to below (the "").
Supplemental Indenture
                    
    
                    
Guaranteeing Subsidiary
Issuers
Trustee
 
 
WHEREAS, the Issuers have heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an indenture (the ""), dated as of October 15, 2004 providing for the issuance of 6 5/8% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "");
Indenture
Notes
 
WHEREAS, the Indenture provides that under certain circumstances the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall execute and deliver to the Trustee a supplemental indenture pursuant to which the Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall unconditionally guarantee all of the Issuers' Obligations under the Notes and the Indenture on the terms and conditions set forth herein (the ""); and
Note Guarantee
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 9.01 of the Indenture, the Trustee is authorized to execute and deliver this Supplemental Indenture.
 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and ratable benefit of the Holders of the Notes as follows:
 
1. Capitalized Terms. Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
2. Agreement to Guarantee. The Guaranteeing Subsidiary hereby agrees as follows:
 
(a) Along with all Guarantors named in the Indenture, to jointly and severally Guarantee to each Holder of a Note authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and to the Trustee and its successors and assigns, the Notes or the obligations of the Issuers hereunder or thereunder, that:
 
(i) the principal of, and premium and Liquidated Damages, if any, and interest on the Notes will be promptly paid in full when due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, redemption or otherwise, and interest
 
on the overdue principal of and interest on the Notes, if any, if lawful, and all other obligations of the Issuers to the Holders or the Trustee hereunder or thereunder will be promptly paid in full or performed, all in accordance with the terms hereof and thereof; and
 
(ii) in case of any extension of time of payment or renewal of any Notes or any of such other obligations, that same will be promptly paid in full when due or performed in accordance with the terms of the extension or renewal, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise. Failing payment when due of any amount so guaranteed or any performance so guaranteed for whatever reason, the Guarantors shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the same immediately.
 
(b) The obligations hereunder shall be unconditional, irrespective of the validity, regularity or enforceability of the Notes or the Indenture, the absence of any action to enforce the same, any waiver or consent by any Holder of the Notes with respect to any provisions hereof or thereof, the recovery of any judgment against the Issuers, any action to enforce the same or any other circumstance which might otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense of a Guarantor, other than payment in full of all Obligations under the Notes.
 
(c) The following is hereby waived: diligence, presentment, demand of payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the Issuers, any right to require a proceeding first against the Issuers, protest, notice and all demands whatsoever.
 
(d) This Note Guarantee shall not be discharged except by complete performance of the obligations contained in the Notes and the Indenture, and the Guaranteeing Subsidiary accepts all obligations of a Guarantor under the Indenture.
 
(e) If any Holder or the Trustee is required by any court or otherwise to return to the Issuers, the Guarantors, or any custodian, trustee, liquidator or other similar official acting in relation to either the Issuers or the Guarantors, any amount paid by either to the Trustee or such Holder, this Note Guarantee, to the extent theretofore discharged, shall be reinstated in full force and effect.
 
(f) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary shall not be entitled to any right of subrogation in relation to the Holders in respect of any obligations guaranteed hereby until payment in full of all obligations guaranteed hereby.
 
(g) As between the Guarantors, on the one hand, and the Holders and the Trustee, on the other hand, () the maturity of the obligations guaranteed
x
 
hereby may be accelerated as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture for the purposes of this Note Guarantee, notwithstanding any stay, injunction or other prohibition preventing such acceleration in respect of the obligations guaranteed hereby, and () in the event of any declaration of acceleration of such obligations as provided in Article 6 of the Indenture, such obligations (whether or not due and payable) shall forthwith become due and payable by the Guarantors for the purpose of this Note Guarantee.
y
 
(h) The Guarantors shall have the right to seek contribution from any non-paying Guarantor so long as the exercise of such right does not impair the rights of the Holders under the Note Guarantee.
 
(i) Pursuant to Section 10.02 of the Indenture, after giving effect to any maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities that are relevant under any applicable Bankruptcy or fraudulent conveyance laws, and after giving effect to any collections from, rights to receive contribution from or payments made by or on behalf of any other Guarantor in respect of the obligations of such other Guarantor under Article 10 of the Indenture, this new Note Guarantee shall be limited to the maximum amount permissible such that the obligations of such Guarantor under this Note Guarantee will not constitute a fraudulent transfer or conveyance.
 
3. Execution and Delivery. Each Guaranteeing Subsidiary agrees that the Note Guarantees shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Note a notation of such Note Guarantee.
 
4. Guaranteeing Subsidiary may Consolidate, etc. on Certain Terms.
 
(a) The Guaranteeing Subsidiary may not sell or otherwise dispose of all substantially all of its assets to, or consolidate with or merge with or into (whether or not such Guarantor is the surviving Person) another Person, other than the Issuers or another Guarantor unless:
 
(i) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Default or Event of Default exists; and
 
(ii) either () subject to Sections 10.04 and 10.05 of the Indenture, the Person acquiring the property in any such sale or disposition or the Person formed by or surviving any such consolidation or merger unconditionally assumes all the obligations of that Guarantor, pursuant to a supplemental indenture in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, under the Notes, the Indenture and the Note Guarantee on the terms set forth herein or therein; or () the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation, Section 4.11 thereof.
A
B
 
(b) In case of any such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and upon the assumption by the successor Person, by supplemental indenture, executed and delivered to the Trustee and satisfactory in form to the Trustee, of the Note Guarantee endorsed upon the Notes and the due and punctual performance of all of the covenants and conditions of the Indenture to be performed by the Guarantor, such successor Person shall succeed to and be substituted for the Guarantor with the same effect as if it had been named herein as a Guarantor. Such successor Person thereupon may cause to be signed any or all of the Note Guarantees to be endorsed upon all of the Notes issuable under the Indenture which theretofore shall not have been signed by the Issuers and delivered to the Trustee. All the Note Guarantees so issued shall in all respects have the same legal rank and benefit under the Indenture as the Note Guarantees theretofore and thereafter issued in accordance with the terms of the Indenture as though all of such Note Guarantees had been issued at the date of the execution hereof.
 
(c) Except as set forth in Articles 4 and 5 and Section 10.05 of Article 10 of the Indenture, and notwithstanding clauses (a) and (b) above, nothing contained in the Indenture or in any of the Notes shall prevent any consolidation or merger of a Guarantor with or into the Issuers or another Guarantor, or shall prevent any sale or conveyance of the property of a Guarantor as an entirety or substantially as an entirety to the Issuers or another Guarantor.
 
5. Releases Following Sale of Assets.
 
(a) In the event of any sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of any Guarantor, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, or a sale or other disposition of all of the capital stock of any Guarantor, in each case to a Person that is not (either before or after giving effect to such transaction) a Restricted Subsidiary (other than a Permitted Joint Venture) of Ventas, Inc., then such Guarantor (in the event of a sale or other disposition, by way of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of all of the capital stock of such Guarantor) or the corporation acquiring the property (in the event of a sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of such Guarantor) will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Note Guarantee; that the Net Proceeds of such sale or other disposition are applied in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.11 of the Indenture. Upon delivery by the Issuers to the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that such sale or other disposition was made by the Issuers in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture, including without limitation Section 4.11 of the Indenture, the Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of any Guarantor from its obligations under its Note Guarantee.
provided
 
(b) Any Guarantor not released from its obligations under its Note Guarantee shall remain liable for the full amount of principal of and interest on the Notes and for the other obligations of any Guarantor under the Indenture as provided in Article 10 of the Indenture.
 
6. Releases Following Investment Grade Rating.
 
In the event that () the Notes are rated both Baa3 or better by Moody's and BBB- or better by S&P (or, if either such entity ceases to rate the Notes for reasons outside of the control of Ventas, Inc., the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any other "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" as that term is used in Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act selected by Ventas, Inc. as a replacement agency), () each rating agency specified in clause (1) of this paragraph provides written notice to the Issuers and the Trustee stating that the release of all of the Note Guarantees will not cause the rating assigned by such rating agency to decline to below Baa3 or BBB-, as applicable; and () no Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then upon receipt by the Trustee of an Officers' Certificate stating that the conditions set forth in clauses (1), (2) and (3) above have been satisfied each Guarantor will be released and relieved of any obligations under its Note Guarantee. The Trustee shall execute any documents reasonably required in order to evidence the release of the Guarantors from their obligations under the Note Guarantees.
1
2
3
 
7. No Recourse Against Others. No past, present or future director, officer, employee, incorporator, stockholder or agent of the Guaranteeing Subsidiary, as such, shall have any liability for any obligations of the Issuers or any Guaranteeing Subsidiary under the Notes, any Note Guarantees, the Indenture or this Supplemental Indenture or for any claim based on, in respect of, or by reason of, such obligations or their creation. Each Holder of the Notes by accepting a Note waives and releases all such liability. The waiver and release are part of the consideration for issuance of the Notes. Such waiver may not be effective to waive liabilities under the federal securities laws and it is the view of the Commission that such a waiver is against public policy.
 
8. NEW YORK LAW TO GOVERN. THE INTERNAL LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN AND BE USED TO CONSTRUE THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE BUT WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW TO THE EXTENT THAT THE APPLICATION OF THE LAWS OF ANOTHER JURISDICTION WOULD BE REQUIRED THEREBY.
 
9. Counterparts. The parties may sign any number of copies of this Supplemental Indenture. Each signed copy shall be an original, but all of them together represent the same agreement.
 
10. Effect of Headings. The Section headings herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
 
11. The Trustee. The Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture or for or in respect of the recitals contained herein, all of which recitals are made solely by the Guaranteeing Subsidiary and the Issuers.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the date first above written.
 
Dated: , 20
                    
        
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Registration Rights Agreement (this "") is dated as of October 15, 2004, by and among Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation (together, the ""); Ventas, Inc. and Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C. (together, the ""); and Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and UBS Securities LLC (collectively, the "").
Agreement
Issuers
Guarantors
Initial Purchasers
 
This Agreement is entered into in connection with the Purchase Agreement, dated as of October 8, 2004, by and among the Issuers, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers (the ""), relating to the offering of $125,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Issuers' 6
Purchase Agreement
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014 (the ""). The execution and delivery of this Agreement is a condition to the Initial Purchasers' obligation to purchase the Notes under the Purchase Agreement.
Notes
 
The parties hereby agree as follows:
 
Section 1. . As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
Definitions
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(c) hereof.
action
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Advice
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the first introductory paragraph hereto.
Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Applicable Period
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Board of Directors
 
"" shall mean a day that is not a Legal Holiday.
Business Day
 
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
"" shall mean a calendar day.
Day
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(b) hereof.
Damages Payment Date
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5 hereof.
Delay Period
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(b) hereof.
Effectiveness Period
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Effectiveness Target Date
 
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Notes
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereto.
Guarantors
 
"" shall mean any Person who owns Transfer Restricted Securities.
Holder
 
"" shall mean the indenture, dated as of October 15, 2004 by and among the Issuers, the Guarantors, the other guarantors party thereto and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee, pursuant to which the Notes are being issued, as amended or supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the first introductory paragraph hereof.
Initial Purchasers
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(n) hereof.
Inspectors
 
"" shall mean October 15, 2004, the date of original issuance of the Notes.
Issue Date
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the introductory paragraph hereto and shall also include the Issuers' permitted successors and assigns.
Issuers
 
"" shall mean a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions in New York, New York are required by law, regulation or executive order to remain closed.
Legal Holiday
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Liquidated Damages
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof.
Losses
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(s) hereof.
NASD
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the second introductory paragraph hereto.
Notes
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7(a) hereof.
Participant
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Participating Broker-Dealer
 
"" shall mean an individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated limited liability company, government or any agency or political subdivision thereof or any other entity.
Person
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Private Exchange
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Private Exchange Notes
 
"" shall mean the prospectus included in any Registration Statement (including, without limitation, any prospectus subject to completion and a prospectus that includes any information previously omitted from a prospectus filed as part of an effective registration statement in reliance upon Rule 430A promulgated under the Securities Act), as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, and all other amendments and supplements to the Prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and all material incorporated by reference or deemed to be incorporated by reference in such Prospectus.
Prospectus
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the second introductory paragraph hereof.
Purchase Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5(n) hereof.
Records
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.
Registration Default
 
"" shall mean any appropriate registration statement of the Issuers covering any of the Transfer Restricted Securities filed with the Commission under the Securities Act, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(b) hereof.
Requesting Participating Broker-Dealer
 
"" shall mean Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144A) or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission providing for offers and sales of securities made in compliance therewith resulting in offers and sales by subsequent
Rule 144
 
holders that are not affiliates of an issuer of such securities being free of the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act.
 
"" shall mean Rule 144A promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule (other than Rule 144) or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission.
Rule 144A
 
"" shall mean Rule 415 promulgated under the Securities Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission.
Rule 415
 
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2(c) hereof.
Shelf Filing Event
 
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(a) hereof.
Shelf Registration
 
"" shall mean a Registration Statement filed in connection with a Shelf Registration.
Shelf Registration Statement
 
"" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended.
TIA
 
"" shall mean each Note upon its original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto, each Exchange Note as to which Section 2(c)(iii) hereof is applicable upon original issuance and at all times subsequent thereto and each Private Exchange Note upon original issuance thereof and at all times subsequent thereto, in each case until () the date on which such Note has been exchanged by a Person other than a broker-dealer for an Exchange Note in the Exchange Offer, () following the exchange by a broker-dealer in the Exchange Offer of a Note for an Exchange Note, the date on which such Exchange Note is sold to a purchaser who receives from such broker-dealer on or prior to the date of such sale a copy of the prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, () the date on which such Note has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with the Shelf Registration Statement, or () the date on which such Note is distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act or is eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144(k).
Transfer Restricted Securities
i
ii
iii
iv
 
"" shall mean the trustee under the Indenture and the trustee (if any) under any indenture governing the Exchange Notes and Private Exchange Notes.
Trustee
 
"" shall mean a registration in which securities of the Issuers are sold to an underwriter for reoffering to the public.
Underwritten registration or underwritten offering
 
Section 2. .
Exchange Offer
 
(a) The Issuers and the Guarantors shall () file a Registration Statement (the "") within 60 days after the Issue Date with the Commission on an appropriate registration form with respect to a registered offer (the "") to exchange Transfer Restricted Securities for a like aggregate principal amount of Notes (the "") that are identical in all material respects to the Notes (except that the Exchange Notes shall not contain terms with respect to transfer restrictions or Liquidated Damages upon a Registration Default), () use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the Securities Act within 180 days after the Issue Date, and () use their respective best efforts to consummate the Exchange Offer within 30 Business Days, or longer, if required by the federal securities laws, after the date on which the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective by the Commission. Upon the Exchange Offer Registration Statement being declared effective by the Commission, the Issuers and the Guarantors will offer the Exchange Notes in exchange for surrender of the Notes. The Issuers and Guarantors shall keep the Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 Business Days (or longer if required by applicable law) after the date notice of the Exchange Offer is mailed to Holders.
i
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
Exchange Offer
Exchange Notes
ii
iii
 
Each Holder that participates in the Exchange Offer will be required to represent to the Issuers and the Guarantors in writing that () any Exchange Notes to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, () it has no arrangement or understanding with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the Securities Act) of the Exchange Notes in violation of the provisions of the Securities Act or, if it is an affiliate, it will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act to the extent applicable, () if such Holder is not a broker-dealer, it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Notes, () if such Holder is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Notes for its own account in exchange for Notes that were acquired as a result of market-making or other trading activities, it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Notes and () it has full power and authority to transfer the Notes in exchange for the Exchange Notes and that the Issuers and the Guarantors will acquire good and unencumbered title thereto free and clear of any liens, restrictions, charges or encumbrances and not subject to any adverse claims.
i
ii
iii
iv
v
 
(b) The Issuers, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers acknowledge that the Commission has taken the position that any broker-dealer that elects to exchange Notes that were acquired by such broker-dealer for its own account as a result of market-making or other trading activities for Exchange Notes in the Exchange Offer (a "") may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of
Participating Broker-Dealer
 
the Securities Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Notes (other than a resale of an unsold allotment resulting from the original offering of the Notes).
 
The Issuers, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers also acknowledge that the Commission has taken the position that if the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement includes a plan of distribution containing a statement to the above effect and the means by which Participating Broker-Dealers may resell the Exchange Notes, without naming the Participating Broker-Dealers or specifying the amount of Exchange Notes owned by them, such Prospectus may be delivered by Participating Broker-Dealers to satisfy their prospectus delivery obligations under the Securities Act in connection with resales of Exchange Notes for their own accounts, so long as the Prospectus otherwise meets the requirements of the Securities Act.
 
In light of the foregoing, if requested by a Participating Broker-Dealer (a ""), the Issuers and the Guarantors agree to use their respective commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement continuously effective for a period not to exceed 30 Business Days after the date on which the Exchange Registration Statement is declared effective, or such longer period if extended pursuant to the penultimate paragraph of Section 5 hereof (such period, the ""), or such earlier date as all Requesting Participating Broker-Dealers shall have notified the Issuers in writing that such Requesting Participating Broker-Dealers have resold all Exchange Notes acquired in the Exchange Offer. The Issuers and the Guarantors shall include a plan of distribution in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement that meets the requirements set forth in the preceding paragraph.
Requesting Participating Broker-Dealer
Applicable Period
 
If, prior to consummation of the Exchange Offer, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder, as the case may be, holds any Notes acquired by it that have, or that are reasonably likely to be determined to have, the status of an unsold allotment in an initial distribution, or if any Holder is not entitled to participate in the Exchange Offer, the Issuers and the Guarantors upon the request of the Initial Purchasers or any such Holder, as the case may be, shall simultaneously with the delivery of the Exchange Notes in the Exchange Offer, issue and deliver to the Initial Purchasers or any such Holder, as the case may be, in exchange (the "") for such Notes held by the Initial Purchasers or any such Holder, as the case may be, a like principal amount of notes (the "") of the Issuers that are identical in all material respects to the Exchange Notes except that the Private Exchange Notes may be subject to restrictions on transfer and bear a legend to such effect. The Private Exchange Notes shall be issued pursuant to the same indenture as the Exchange Notes and bear the same CUSIP number as the Exchange Notes.
Private Exchange
Private Exchange Notes
 
For each Note surrendered in the Exchange Offer, the Holder will receive an Exchange Note having a principal amount equal to that of the surrendered Note. Interest on each Exchange Note and Private Exchange Note issued pursuant to the Exchange Offer and in the Private Exchange will accrue from the last interest payment date on
 
which interest was paid on the Notes surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the Notes, from the Issue Date.
 
Upon consummation of the Exchange Offer in accordance with this Section 2, the Issuers and the Guarantors shall have no further registration obligations other than their continuing registration obligations with respect to () Private Exchange Notes, () Exchange Notes held by Participating Broker-Dealers and () Notes or Exchange Notes as to which clause (c)(iii) of this Section 2 applies.
i
ii
iii
 
In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Issuers and the Guarantors shall:
 
(1) mail or cause to be mailed to each Holder entitled to participate in the Exchange Offer a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
 
(2) utilize the services of a depositary for the Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York;
 
(3) permit Holders to withdraw tendered Notes at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last Business Day on which the Exchange Offer shall remain open; and
 
(4) otherwise comply in all material respects with all applicable laws, rules and regulations.
 
As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any, the Issuers and the Guarantors shall:
 
(1) accept for exchange all Notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn by the Holders pursuant to the Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange, if any;
 
(2) deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee for cancellation all Notes so accepted for exchange; and
 
(3) cause the Trustee to authenticate and deliver promptly to each such Holder of Notes, Exchange Notes or Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be, equal in principal amount to the Transfer Restricted Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
 
The Exchange Offer and the Private Exchange shall not be subject to any conditions, other than that () the Exchange Offer or Private Exchange, as the case may be, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the Commission, () no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or by any
i
ii
 
governmental agency which might materially impair the ability of the Issuers and the Guarantors to proceed with the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange, and no material adverse development shall have occurred in any existing action or proceeding with respect to the Issuers or the Guarantors and () all governmental approvals shall have been obtained, which approvals the Issuers and the Guarantors deem necessary for the consummation of the Exchange Offer or Private Exchange.
iii
 
The Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes shall be issued under the Indenture, or an indenture identical in all material respects to the Indenture (in either case, with such changes as are necessary to comply with any requirements of the Commission to effect or maintain the qualification thereof under the TIA) and which, in either case, has been qualified under the TIA and shall provide that () the Exchange Notes shall not be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture and () the Private Exchange Notes shall be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture. The Indenture or such indenture shall provide that the Notes, the Exchange Notes and the Private Exchange Notes shall each vote and consent together on all matters as one class.
a
b
 
(c) In the event that () the Issuers and the Guarantors are not required to file the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or permitted to consummate the Exchange Offer because the Exchange Offer is not permitted by applicable law or Commission policy, () for any reason the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 30 Business Days after the 180
i
ii
th
day following the Issue Date, or () any Holder notifies the Issuers prior to the 20th day following consummation of the Exchange Offer that () it is prohibited by law or the applicable interpretations of the Commission from participating in the Exchange Offer, () that it may not resell the Exchange Notes acquired by it in the Exchange Offer to the public without delivering a prospectus and the prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not appropriate or available for such resales, or () that it is a broker-dealer and owns Notes acquired directly from the Issuers or an affiliate of the Issuers (each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (iii) of this sentence, a ""), then the Issuers and the Guarantors shall file a Shelf Registration pursuant to Section 3 hereof.
iii
x
y
z
Shelf Filing Event
 
Section 3. . If at any time a Shelf Filing Event shall occur, then:
Shelf Registration
 
(a) . The Issuers and the Guarantors shall file with the Commission a Registration Statement for an offering to be made on a continuous basis pursuant to Rule 415 covering all of the Transfer Restricted Securities not permitted to be exchanged in the Exchange Offer, Private Exchange Notes and Exchange Notes as to which Section 2(c)(iii) is applicable (the ""). The Issuers and the Guarantors shall use their respective best efforts to file with the Commission the Shelf Registration on or prior to 45 days after such filing obligation arises. The Shelf Registration shall be on Form S-1 or another appropriate form permitting registration of
Shelf Registration
Shelf Registration
 
such Transfer Restricted Securities for resale by Holders in the manner or manners designated by them (including, without limitation, one or more underwritten offerings). The Issuers and the Guarantors shall not permit any securities other than Transfer Restricted Securities to be included in the Shelf Registration.
 
(b) The Issuers and the Guarantors shall use their respective commercially reasonable efforts () to cause the Shelf Registration to be declared effective under the Securities Act on or prior to 180 calendar days after the obligation to file the Shelf Registration arises and () to keep the Shelf Registration continuously effective under the Securities Act for the period ending on the earlier of the date which is two years from the Issue Date, subject to extension pursuant to the penultimate paragraph of Section 5 hereof, and such shorter period ending when all Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the Shelf Registration have been sold in the manner set forth and as contemplated in the Shelf Registration or when there are no more Transfer Restricted Securities (the ""); , , that () the Effectiveness Period in respect of the Shelf Registration shall be extended to the extent required to permit dealers to comply with the applicable prospectus delivery requirements of Rule 174 under the Securities Act and as otherwise provided herein and () the Issuers and the Guarantors may suspend the effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement by written notice to the Holders solely as a result of the filing of a post-effective amendment to the Shelf Registration Statement to incorporate annual audited financial information with respect to the Issuers where such post-effective amendment is not yet effective and needs to be declared effective to permit Holders to use the related Prospectus.
x
y
Effectiveness Period
provided
however
i
ii
 
(c) . The Issuers and the Guarantors agree to supplement or make amendments to the Shelf Registration Statement as and when required by the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used for such Shelf Registration Statement or by the Securities Act or rules and regulations thereunder for shelf registration, or if reasonably requested by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Notes constituting Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement or by any underwriter of such Transfer Restricted Securities.
Supplements and Amendments
 
Section 4. .
Liquidated Damages
 
(a) The Issuers, the Guarantors and the Initial Purchasers agree that the Holders will suffer damages if the Issuers and the Guarantors fail to fulfill their obligations under Section 2 or Section 3 hereof and that it would not be feasible to ascertain the extent of such damages with precision. Accordingly, the Issuers and the Guarantors agree that if:
 
(i) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the Commission on or prior to the 60th day following the Issue Date or, if that day is not a Business Day, the next day that is a Business Day, or the Shelf Registration
 
Statement is not filed with the Commission on or prior to the 45th day following the date that the filing obligation arose, or, if that day is not a Business Day, the next day that is a Business Day,
 
(ii) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective on or prior to the 180th day following the Issue Date or, if that day is not a Business Day, the next day that is a Business Day, or the Shelf Registration Statement is not declared effective on or prior to the 180th day following the date that the filing obligation arose, or, if that day is not a Business Day, the next day that is a Business Day (in either case, the ""),
Effectiveness Target Date
 
(iii) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 30th Business Day following the Effectiveness Target Date with respect to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement; or
 
(iv) the Shelf Registration Statement or the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is declared effective but thereafter ceases to be effective or fails to be usable in connection with resales of Transfer Restricted Securities during the periods specified hereto, except if the Shelf Registration ceases to be effective or fails to be usable as specifically permitted by the penultimate paragraph of Section 5 hereof
 
(each such event referred to in clauses (i) through (iv) a ""), liquidated damages in the form of additional cash interest ("") will accrue on the affected Notes and the affected Exchange Notes, as applicable. The rate of Liquidated Damages will be $.05 per week per $1,000 principal amount of Notes for the first 90-day period immediately following the occurrence of a Registration Default, increasing by an additional $.05 per week per $1,000 principal amount of Notes with respect to each subsequent 90-day period up to a maximum amount of additional interest of $.20 per week per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, from and including the date on which any such Registration Default shall occur to, but excluding, the earlier of () the date on which all Registration Defaults have been cured or () the date on which all the Notes and Exchange Notes otherwise become freely transferable by Holders other than affiliates of the Issuers and the Guarantors without further registration under the Securities Act.
Registration Default
Liquidated Damages
1
2
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, () the amount of Liquidated Damages payable shall not increase because more than one Registration Default has occurred and is pending and () a Holder of Notes or Exchange Notes who is not entitled to the benefits of the Shelf Registration Statement (, such Holder has not elected to include information) shall not be entitled to Liquidated Damages with respect to a Registration Default that pertains to the Shelf Registration Statement.
1
2
i.e.
 
(b) So long as Notes remain outstanding, the Issuers shall notify the Trustee within five Business Days after each and every date on which an event occurs in respect of which Liquidated Damages is required to be paid. Any amounts of Liquidated Damages due pursuant to clauses (a)(i), (a)(ii), (a)(iii) or (a)(iv) of this Section 4 will be payable in cash semi-annually on each Interest Payment Date (each a ""), commencing with the first such date occurring after any such Liquidated Damages commence to accrue, to Holders to whom regular interest is payable on such Damages Payment Date with respect to Notes that are Transfer Restricted Securities with respect to a Registration Default arising out of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, or Holders of Notes described in Section 2(c)(iii) with respect to a Registration Default arising out of a Shelf Registration Statement.
Damages Payment Date
 
Section 5. . In connection with the filing of any Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2 or 3 hereof, the Issuers and the Guarantors shall effect such registrations to permit the sale of the securities covered thereby in accordance with the intended method or methods of disposition thereof, and pursuant thereto and in connection with any Registration Statement filed by the Issuers hereunder, the Issuers and the Guarantors shall:
Registration Procedures
 
(a) Prepare and file with the Commission the Registration Statement or Registration Statements prescribed by Section 2 or 3 hereof, and use their respective commercially reasonable efforts with respect to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and their respective best efforts with respect to the Shelf Registration Statement, to cause each such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective as provided herein; , , that if () such filing is pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or () a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period relating thereto, then solely before filing any Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto (other than any filing of any periodic report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which shall not be deemed to be an amendment or supplement thereto for purposes of this Section 5(a)), the Issuers and the Guarantors shall furnish to and afford the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, its counsel (if such counsel is known to the Issuers) and the managing underwriters, if any, in each case subject to compliance with applicable law and subject to customary confidentiality arrangements, a reasonable opportunity to review copies of all such documents (including copies of any documents to be incorporated by reference therein and all exhibits thereto) proposed to be filed (in each case at least five Business Days prior to such filing or such later date as is reasonable under the circumstances). Neither the Issuers nor any Guarantor shall file any
provided
however
1
2
 
Registration Statement or Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto if the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Notes constituting Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement, or any such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, its counsel, or the managing underwriters, if any, shall reasonably object on a timely basis.
 
(b) Prepare and file with the Commission such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Shelf Registration Statement or Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as the case may be, as may be necessary to keep such Registration Statement continuously effective for the Effectiveness Period or the Applicable Period, as the case may be; cause the related Prospectus to be supplemented by any Prospectus supplement required by applicable law, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provisions then in force) promulgated under the Securities Act; and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act applicable to it with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such Registration Statement as so amended or in such Prospectus as so supplemented and with respect to the subsequent resale of any securities being sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer covered by any such Prospectus, in each case, in accordance with the intended methods of distribution set forth in such Registration Statement or Prospectus, as so amended.
 
(c) If () a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or () a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period relating thereto from whom the Issuers have received written notice that such Broker-Dealer will be a Participating Broker-Dealer in the applicable Exchange Offer, notify the selling Holders, or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, their counsel and the managing underwriters, if any, as promptly as possible, and, if requested by any such Person, confirm such notice in writing, () when a Prospectus or any Prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed, and, with respect to a Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective under the Securities Act (including in such notice a written statement that any Holder may, upon request, obtain, at the sole expense of the Issuers, one conformed copy of such Registration Statement or post-effective amendment including financial statements and schedules, documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference and exhibits), and of any request by the Commission for amendments to a Registration Statement or amendments or supplements to a Prospectus or for additional information relating thereto, () of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of any preliminary prospectus or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, () if
1
2
i
ii
iii
 
at any time when a Prospectus is required by the Securities Act to be delivered in connection with sales of Transfer Restricted Securities or resales of Exchange Notes by Participating Broker-Dealers the representations and warranties of the Issuers and the Guarantors contained in any agreement (including any underwriting agreement) contemplated by Section 5(m)(i) hereof cease to be true and correct in all material respects, () of the receipt by the Issuers of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification or exemption from qualification of a Registration Statement or any of the Transfer Restricted Securities or the Exchange Notes for offer or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, () of the happening of any event, the existence of any condition or any information becoming known to the Issuers or the Guarantors that makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference untrue in any material respect or that requires the making of any changes in or amendments or supplements to such Registration Statement, Prospectus or documents so that, in the case of the Registration Statement, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and that in the case of the Prospectus, it will not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and () of the Issuers' and the Guarantors' determination that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate.
iv
v
vi
 
(d) If () a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or () a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, use their respective reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or of any order preventing or suspending the use of a Prospectus or suspending the qualification (or exemption from qualification) of any of the Transfer Restricted Securities or the Exchange Notes, as the case may be, for sale in any jurisdiction, and, if any such order is issued, to use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal of any such order at the earliest practicable moment.
1
2
 
(e) If () a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof or () a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period and if reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters (if any), the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of
1
2
 
Notes constituting Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement or any Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, () promptly incorporate in such Registration Statement or Prospectus a prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information as the managing underwriter or underwriters (if any), such Holders or any Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be (based upon advice of counsel), determine is reasonably necessary to be included therein and () make all required filings of such prospectus supplement or such post-effective amendment as soon as practicable after the Issuers have received notification of the matters to be incorporated in such prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment; , , that neither the Issuers nor any Guarantor shall be required to take any action hereunder that would, in the written opinion of counsel for the Issuers and the Guarantors, violate applicable laws.
i
ii
provided
however
 
(f) If () a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof or () a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, furnish to each selling Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, who so requests, its counsel and each managing underwriter, if any, at the sole expense of the Issuers, one conformed copy of the Registration Statement or Registration Statements and each post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, and, if requested, all documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference and all exhibits.
1
2
 
(g) If () a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or () a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, deliver to each selling Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, its respective counsel, and the underwriters, if any, at the sole expense of the Issuers, as many copies of the Prospectus or Prospectuses (including each form of preliminary prospectus) and each amendment or supplement thereto and any documents incorporated by reference therein as such Persons may reasonably request; and, subject to the last two paragraphs of this Section 5, each of the Issuers and the Guarantors hereby consents to the use of such Prospectus and each amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, and the underwriters or agents, if any, and dealers (if any), in connection with the offering and sale of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by, or the sale by Participating
1
2
 
Broker-Dealers of the Exchange Notes pursuant to, such Prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto.
 
(h) Prior to any public offering of Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes or any delivery of a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, use their respective reasonable best efforts to register or qualify, and to cooperate with the selling Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, and its respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification (or exemption from such registration or qualification) of such Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes, as the case may be, for offer and sale under the securities or Blue Sky laws of such jurisdictions within the United States as any selling Holder, Participating Broker-Dealer, or the managing underwriter or underwriters reasonably request; , , that where Exchange Notes or Transfer Restricted Securities are offered other than through an underwritten offering, the Issuers and the Guarantors agree to use their respective reasonable best efforts to cause counsel for the Issuers and the Guarantors to perform Blue Sky investigations and file registrations and qualifications required to be filed pursuant to this Section 5(h); keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be kept effective and do any and all other acts or things reasonably necessary or advisable to enable the disposition in such jurisdictions of such Exchange Notes or Transfer Restricted Securities covered by the applicable Registration Statement; , , that neither the Issuers nor any Guarantor shall be required to () qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified, () take any action that would subject it to general service of process in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject or () subject itself to taxation in excess of a nominal dollar amount in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
provided
however
provided
however
A
B
C
 
(i) If a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, cooperate with the selling Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities and the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Transfer Restricted Securities to be sold, which certificates shall not bear any restrictive legends and shall be in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and enable such Transfer Restricted Securities to be in such denominations and registered in such names as the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, or selling Holders may request at least three Business Days prior to any sale of such Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes.
 
(j) Use their respective reasonable best efforts to cause the Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes covered by any Registration Statement to be registered with or approved by such other governmental agencies or authorities as may be reasonably necessary to enable the seller or sellers thereof or the underwriter or underwriters, if any, to consummate the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes, except as may be required solely as a consequence of the nature of such selling Holder's business, in which case the Issuers and the Guarantors will cooperate in all reasonable respects with the filing of such Registration Statement and the granting of such approvals.
 
(k) If () a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof, or () a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by Section 5(c)(v) or 5(c)(vi) hereof, as promptly as practicable prepare and (subject to Section 5(a) and the penultimate paragraph of this Section 5) file with the Commission, at the sole expense of the Issuers, a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement to the related Prospectus or any document incorporated or deemed to be incorporated therein by reference, or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Transfer Restricted Securities being sold thereunder or to the purchasers of the Exchange Notes to whom such Prospectus will be delivered by a Participating Broker-Dealer, any such Prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
1
2
 
(l) Prior to the effective date of the first Registration Statement relating to the Transfer Restricted Securities, () provide the Trustee with certificates for the Transfer Restricted Securities in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and () provide a CUSIP number for the Transfer Restricted Securities.
i
ii
 
(m) In connection with any underwritten offering of Transfer Restricted Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration, enter into an underwriting agreement as is customary in underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Notes and take all such other actions as are reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters in order to expedite or facilitate the registration or the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities and, in such connection, () make such representations and warranties to, and covenant with, the underwriters with respect to the business of the Issuers, the Guarantors and their respective subsidiaries, as then conducted (including any acquired business,
i
 
properties or entity, if applicable), and the Registration Statement, Prospectus and documents, if any, incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference therein and furnish such officers' certificates, in each case, as are customarily made or furnished by issuers to underwriters in underwritten offerings of debt securities similar to the Notes, and confirm the same in writing if and when requested; () use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain the written opinions of counsel for the Issuers and the Guarantors and written updates thereof in form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters, addressed to the underwriters covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters; () use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof in form, scope and substance reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriter or underwriters from the independent certified public accountants for the Issuers and the Guarantors (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Issuers or of any business acquired by the Issuers for which financial statements and financial data are, or are required to be, included or incorporated by reference in the Registration Statement), addressed to each of the underwriters, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters in connection with underwritten offerings; and () if an underwriting agreement is entered into, the same shall contain indemnification provisions and procedures no less favorable than those set forth in Section 7 hereof (or such other provisions and procedures acceptable to Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by such Registration Statement and the managing underwriter or underwriters or agents) with respect to all parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section; that neither the Issuers nor any Guarantor shall be required to provide indemnification to any underwriter selected in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 hereof with respect to information relating to such underwriter furnished in writing to the Issuers by or on behalf of such underwriter expressly for inclusion in such Registration Statement. The above shall be done at each closing under such underwriting agreement, or as and to the extent required thereunder.
ii
iii
iv
provided
 
(n) If () a Shelf Registration is filed pursuant to Section 3 hereof or () a Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement filed pursuant to Section 2 hereof is required to be delivered under the Securities Act by any Participating Broker-Dealer who seeks to sell Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, make available for inspection by any selling Holder of such Transfer Restricted Securities being sold or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, any underwriter participating in any such disposition of Transfer Restricted Securities, if any, and any attorney, accountant or other
1
2
 
agent retained by any such selling Holder or each such Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, or underwriter (collectively, the ""), at the offices where normally kept, during reasonable business hours, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and instruments of the Issuers, the Guarantors and their subsidiaries (collectively, the "") as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise any applicable due diligence responsibilities, and cause the officers, directors and employees of the Issuers and the Guarantors and subsidiaries to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such Registration Statement and Prospectus. Each Inspector shall agree in writing that it will keep the Records confidential and that it will not disclose, or use in connection with any market transactions in violation of any applicable securities laws, any Records that each of the Issuers and the Guarantors determines, in good faith, to be confidential and that it notifies the Inspectors in writing are confidential unless () the disclosure of such Records is necessary to avoid or correct a misstatement or omission in such Registration Statement or Prospectus, () the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction, () disclosure of such information is necessary or advisable in the opinion of counsel for an Inspector in connection with any action, claim, suit or proceeding, directly or indirectly, involving or potentially involving such Inspector and arising out of, based upon, relating to, or involving this Agreement or the Purchase Agreement, or any transactions contemplated hereby or thereby or arising hereunder or thereunder, or () the information in such Records has been made generally available to the public, other than by the Inspectors; , , that () each Inspector shall agree to use reasonable best efforts to provide notice to the Issuers and the Guarantors of the potential disclosure of any information by such Inspector pursuant to clause (i), (ii) or (iii) of this sentence to permit such Issuer or such Guarantor to obtain a protective order (or waive the provisions of this paragraph (n)) and () each such Inspector shall take such actions as are reasonably necessary to protect the confidentiality of such information (if practicable) to the extent such action is otherwise not inconsistent with, an impairment of or in derogation of the rights and interests of the Holder or any Inspector.
Inspectors
Records
i
ii
iii
iv
provided
however
i
ii
 
(o) Provide an indenture trustee for the Transfer Restricted Securities or the Exchange Notes, as the case may be, and cause the applicable Indenture or the trust indenture provided for in Section 2(a) hereof to be qualified under the TIA not later than the effective date of the Exchange Offer or the first Registration Statement relating to the Transfer Restricted Securities; and in connection therewith, cooperate with the trustee under any such indenture and the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes, as applicable, to effect such changes to such indenture as may be required for such indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA; and execute, and use their
 
respective reasonable best efforts to cause such trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the Commission to enable such indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner.
 
(p) Comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the Commission and make generally available to the Ventas, Inc.'s securityholders earnings statements satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act and Rule 158 thereunder (or any similar rule promulgated under the Securities Act) no later than 45 days after the end of any 12-month period (or 90 days after the end of any 12-month period if such period is a fiscal year) () commencing at the end of any fiscal quarter in which Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes are sold to underwriters in a firm commitment or best efforts underwritten offering and () if not sold to underwriters in such an offering, commencing on the first day of the first fiscal quarter of Ventas, Inc. after the effective date of a Registration Statement, which statements shall cover said 12-month periods consistent with the requirements of Rule 158.
i
ii
 
(q) Upon the request of a Holder, upon consummation of the Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange, use their respective reasonable best efforts to obtain an opinion of counsel for the Issuers and the Guarantors addressed to the Trustee for the benefit of all Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities participating in the Exchange Offer or the Private Exchange, as the case may be, that the Exchange Notes or Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be, and the related indenture constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Issuers and the Guarantors, enforceable against each of the Issuers and the Guarantors in accordance with its respective terms, subject to customary exceptions and qualifications.
 
(r) If the Exchange Offer or a Private Exchange is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Transfer Restricted Securities by Holders to the Issuers (or to such other Person as directed by the Issuers) in exchange for the Exchange Notes or the Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be, mark, or cause to be marked, on such Transfer Restricted Securities that such Transfer Restricted Securities are being cancelled in exchange for the Exchange Notes or the Private Exchange Notes, as the case may be; that in no event shall such Transfer Restricted Securities be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
provided
 
(s) Cooperate with each seller of Transfer Restricted Securities covered by any Registration Statement and each underwriter, if any, participating in the disposition of such Transfer Restricted Securities and their respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (the "").
NASD
 
(t) Use their respective reasonable best efforts to take all other steps reasonably necessary or advisable to effect the registration of the Exchange Notes and/or Transfer Restricted Securities covered by a Registration Statement contemplated hereby.
 
The Issuers and the Guarantors may require each seller of Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes as to which any registration is being effected to furnish to the Issuers and the Guarantors such information regarding such seller and the distribution of such Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes as the Issuers and the Guarantors may, from time to time, reasonably request. The Issuers and the Guarantors may exclude from such registration the Transfer Restricted Securities of any seller so long as such seller fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request and in the event of such an exclusion, neither Issuer nor any Guarantor shall have any further obligation under this Agreement (including, without limitation, the obligations under Section 4) with respect to such seller or any subsequent Holder of such Transfer Restricted Securities. Each seller as to which any Shelf Registration is being effected agrees to furnish promptly to the Issuers and the Guarantors all information required to be disclosed in order to make any information previously furnished to the Issuers and the Guarantors by such seller not materially misleading.
 
If any such Registration Statement refers to any Holder by name or otherwise as the holder of any securities of the Issuers, then such Holder shall have the right to require () the insertion therein of language, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to such Holder, to the effect that the holding by such Holder of such securities is not to be construed as a recommendation by such Holder of the investment quality of the securities covered thereby and that such holding does not imply that such Holder will assist in meeting any future financial requirements of the Issuers, or () in the event that such reference to such Holder by name or otherwise is not required by the Securities Act or any similar federal statute then in force, the deletion of the reference to such Holder in any amendment or supplement to the applicable Registration Statement filed or prepared subsequent to the time that such reference ceases to be required.
i
ii
 
Each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities and each Participating Broker-Dealer agrees by acquisition of such Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes that, upon actual receipt of any notice from the Issuers () of the happening of any event of the kind described in Section 5(c)(ii), 5(c)(iii), 5(c)(iv), 5(c)(v) or 5(c)(vi) hereof, or () that the Board of Directors of Ventas, Inc. (the "") has resolved that Ventas, Inc. and its subsidiaries have a bona fide business purpose for doing so, then the Issuers and the Guarantors may delay the filing or the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement (if not then filed or effective, as applicable) and shall not be required to maintain the effectiveness thereof or amend or supplement the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration, in all cases, for a period (a "") expiring upon the earlier to
x
y
Board of Directors
Delay Period
 
occur of () in the case of the immediately preceding clause (x), such Holder's or Participating Broker-Dealer's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 5(k) hereof or until it is advised in writing (the "") by the Issuers and the Guarantors that the use of the applicable Prospectus may be resumed, and has received copies of any amendments or supplements thereto or () in the case of the immediately preceding clause (y), the date which is the earlier of () the date on which such business purpose ceases to interfere with Ventas, Inc.'s or its subsidiaries' obligations to file or maintain the effectiveness of any such Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement or () 60 days after the Issuers and Guarantors notify the Holders of such good faith determination. There shall not be more than 60 days of Delay Periods during any 12-month period. Each of the Effectiveness Period and the Applicable Period, if applicable, shall be extended by the number of days during any Delay Period. Any Delay Period will not alter the obligations of the Issuers and Guarantors to pay Liquidated Damages under the circumstances set forth in Section 4 hereof.
i
Advice
ii
A
B
 
In the event of any Delay Period pursuant to clause (y) of the preceding paragraph, notice shall be given as soon as practicable after the Board of Directors makes such a determination of the need for a Delay Period and shall state, to the extent practicable, an estimate of the duration of such Delay Period and shall advise the recipient thereof of the agreement of such Holder provided in the next succeeding sentence. Each Holder, by his acceptance of Transfer Restricted Securities, agrees that during any Delay Period, each Holder will discontinue disposition of such Notes or Exchange Notes covered by such Registration Statement or Prospectus or Exchange Notes to be sold by such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be.
 
Section 6. . All fees and expenses incident to the Issuers' and the Guarantors' performance of or compliance with this Agreement (other than any underwriting discounts or commissions) shall be borne by the Issuers, whether or not the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration is filed or becomes effective or the Exchange Offer is consummated, including, without limitation, () all registration and filing fees (including, without limitation, () fees with respect to filings required to be made with the NASD in connection with an underwritten offering and () fees and expenses of compliance with state securities or Blue Sky laws (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel in connection with Blue Sky qualifications of the Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes and determination of the eligibility of the Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions () where the holders of Transfer Restricted Securities are located, in the case of an Exchange Offer, or () as provided in Section 5(h) hereof, in the case of a Shelf Registration or in the case of Exchange Notes to be sold by a Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period)); provided that such fees and expenses under this subclause () shall not exceed $5,000 in the aggregate, () printing expenses, including, without limitation, expenses of
Registration Expenses
i
A
B
x
y
B
ii
 
printing certificates for Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company and of printing prospectuses if the printing of prospectuses is requested by the managing underwriter or underwriters, if any, or by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Notes constituting Transfer Restricted Securities included in any Registration Statement or in respect of Exchange Notes to be sold by any Participating Broker-Dealer during the Applicable Period, as the case may be, () messenger, telephone and delivery expenses, () fees and disbursements of counsel for the Issuers and the Guarantors and, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, reasonable fees and disbursements of one special counsel for all of the sellers of Transfer Restricted Securities (exclusive of any counsel retained pursuant to Section 7 hereof), not to exceed $50,000 in the aggregate, () fees and disbursements of all independent certified public accountants referred to in Section 5(m)(iii) hereof (including, without limitation, the expenses of any special audit and "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance), () Securities Act liability insurance, if the Issuers desire such insurance, () fees and expenses of all other Persons retained by the Issuers and the Guarantors, () internal expenses of the Issuers and the Guarantors (including, without limitation, all salaries and expenses of their respective officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), () the expense of any annual audit, () the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the securities to be registered on any securities exchange, and the obtaining of a rating of the securities, in each case, if applicable, and () the expenses relating to printing, word processing and distributing all Registration Statements, underwriting agreements, indentures and any other documents necessary in order to comply with this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary, each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions of any underwriters with respect to any Transfer Restricted Securities sold by or on behalf of it.
iii
iv
v
vi
vii
viii
ix
x
xi
 
Section 7. .
Indemnification
 
(a) The Issuers and the Guarantors agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities and each Participating Broker-Dealer selling Exchange Notes during the Applicable Period, each Person, if any, who controls any such Person within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act, the agents, employees, officers and directors of each Holder and each such Participating Broker-Dealer and the agents, employees, officers and directors of any such controlling Person (each, a "") from and against any and all losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses (including, but not limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees and any and all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever, and any and all reasonable amounts paid in settlement of any claim or litigation (in the manner set forth in clause (c) below)) (collectively, "") to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise insofar as such Losses (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based
Participant
Losses
 
upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if either the Issuers or the Guarantors shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or any preliminary prospectus, or caused by, arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, that () the foregoing indemnity shall not be available to any Participant insofar as such Losses are caused by any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to such Participant furnished to the Issuers in writing by or on behalf of such Participant expressly for use therein, and () that the foregoing indemnity with respect to any preliminary prospectus shall not inure to the benefit of any Participant from whom the Person asserting such Losses purchased Transfer Restricted Securities if () it is decided in a final judgment in the related proceeding that such Participant failed to send or give a copy of the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if such amendment or supplement was furnished to such Participant prior to the written confirmation of such sale) to such Person with or prior to the written confirmation of such sale, if required by applicable law, and () the untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission was completely corrected in the Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if amended or supplemented as aforesaid) and such Prospectus does not contain any other untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission that was the subject matter of the related proceeding. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Issuers and the Guarantors may otherwise have, including, but not limited to, liability under this Agreement.
provided
i
ii
x
y
 
(b) Each Participant agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Issuers and the Guarantors, and each Person, if any, who controls the Issuers or the Guarantors within the meaning of Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20(a) of the Exchange Act, and each of its agents, employees, officers and directors and the agents, employees, officers and directors of any such controlling Person from and against any Losses to which they or any of them may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise insofar as such Losses (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if either the Issuers or the Guarantors shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto) or any preliminary prospectus, or caused by, arising out of or based upon any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the case of the Prospectus, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that any such Loss arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with information relating to
 
such Participant furnished in writing to the Issuers by or on behalf of such Participant expressly for use therein.
 
(c) Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under subsection 7(a) or 7(b) above of notice of the commencement of any action, suit or proceeding (collectively, an ""), such indemnified party shall, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under such subsection, notify each party against whom indemnification is to be sought in writing of the commencement of such action (but the failure so to notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability that it may have under this Section 7 except to the extent that it has been prejudiced in any material respect by such failure). In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies an indemnifying party of the commencement of such action, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate in such action, and to the extent it may elect by written notice delivered to the indemnified party promptly after receiving the aforesaid notice from such indemnified party, to assume the defense of such action with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the indemnified party or parties shall have the right to employ its or their own counsel in any such action, but the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party or parties unless () the employment of such counsel shall have been authorized in writing by the indemnifying parties in connection with the defense of such action, () the indemnifying parties shall not have employed counsel to take charge of the defense of such action within a reasonable time after notice of commencement of the action, or () the named parties to such action (including any impleaded parties) include such indemnified party and the indemnifying party or parties (or such indemnifying parties have assumed the defense of such action), and such indemnified party or parties shall have reasonably concluded, that there may be defenses available to it or them that are different from or additional to those available to one or all of the indemnifying parties (in which case the indemnifying parties shall not have the right to direct the defense of such action on behalf of the indemnified party or parties), in any of which events such reasonable fees and expenses of counsel shall be borne by the indemnifying parties. In no event shall the indemnifying party be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one counsel (together with appropriate local counsel) at any time for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but substantially similar or related actions arising in the same jurisdiction out of the same general allegations or circumstances. Any such separate firm for the Participants shall be designated in writing by Participants who sold a majority in interest of Transfer Restricted Securities sold by all such Participants and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuers and the Guarantors, and when the Issuers and Guarantors are the indemnified party, any such separate firm for the Issuers and the Guarantors, their respective affiliates, officers, directors, representatives, employees and agents and such control Person of the Issuers or the Guarantors shall be designated in writing by the Issuers and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Holders. An indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any claim or action
action
i
ii
iii
 
effected without its written consent, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding.
 
(d) In order to provide for contribution in circumstances in which the indemnification provided for in this Section 7 is for any reason held to be unavailable from the indemnifying party, or is insufficient to hold harmless a party indemnified under this Section 7, each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such aggregate Losses () in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by each indemnifying party, on the one hand, and each indemnified party, on the other hand, from the sale of the Notes to the Initial Purchasers or the resale of the Transfer Restricted Securities by such Holder, as applicable, or () if such allocation is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of each indemnified party, on the one hand, and each indemnifying party, on the other hand, in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Issuers and the Guarantors, on the one hand, and each Participant, on the other hand, shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as () the total proceeds from the sale of the Notes to the Initial Purchasers (net of discounts but before deducting expenses) received by the Issuers and the Guarantors are to () the total net profit received by such Participant in connection with the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities. The relative fault of the parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Issuers and the Guarantors or such Participant and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission or alleged statement or omission.
i
ii
x
y
 
(e) The parties agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does not take into account the equitable considerations referred to above. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, () in no case shall any Participant be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the net profit received by such Participant in connection with the sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities exceeds the amount of any damages that such Participant has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission and () no person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any
i
ii
 
person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. Any party entitled to contribution will, promptly after receipt of notice of commencement of any action against such party in respect of which a claim for contribution may be made against another party or parties under this Section 7, notify such party or parties from whom contribution may be sought, but the omission to so notify such party or parties shall not relieve the party or parties from whom contribution may be sought from any obligation it or they may have under this Section 7 or otherwise, except to the extent that it has been prejudiced in any material respect by such failure; , , that no additional notice shall be required with respect to any action for which notice has been given under this Section 7 for purposes of indemnification. Anything in this section to the contrary notwithstanding, no party shall be liable for contribution with respect to any action or claim settled without its written consent, , , that such written consent was not unreasonably withheld.
provided
however
provided
however
 
Section 8. . Each Issuer and each Guarantor covenants that it will file the reports required, if any, to be filed by such Issuer or such Guarantor under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the Commission thereunder in a timely manner in accordance with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and, if at any time such Issuer or such Guarantor is not required to file such reports, it will, upon the request of any Holder or beneficial owner of Transfer Restricted Securities, make available such information necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. Each Issuer and each Guarantor further covenants that for so long as any Transfer Restricted Securities remain outstanding it will take such further action as any Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may reasonably request from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Transfer Restricted Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by () Rule 144(k) and Rule 144A under the Securities Act, as such Rules may be amended from time to time, or () any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the Commission.
Rules 144 and 144A
a
b
 
Section 9. . If any of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by any Shelf Registration are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will manage the offering will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of such Transfer Restricted Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Issuers and the Guarantors.
Underwritten Registrations
 
No Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder if such Holder does not () agree to sell such Holder's Transfer Restricted Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and () complete and execute all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
a
b
 
Section 10. .
Miscellaneous
 
(a) . Neither the Issuers nor any Guarantor has, as of the date hereof, and shall have, after the date of this Agreement, entered into any agreement with respect to any of its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not conflict with and are not inconsistent with, in any material respect, the rights granted to the holders of any of the Issuers' and the Guarantors' other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements. Neither the Issuers nor any Guarantor has entered and will enter into any agreement with respect to any of its securities which will grant to any Person piggy-back registration rights with respect to any Registration Statement.
No Inconsistent Agreements
 
(b) . The Issuers and the Guarantors shall not, directly or indirectly, take any action with respect to the Transfer Restricted Securities as a class that would adversely affect the ability of the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities to include such Transfer Restricted Securities in a registration undertaken pursuant to this Agreement.
Adjustments Affecting Transfer Restricted Securities
 
(c) . The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given except pursuant to a written agreement duly signed and delivered by () the Issuers and () () the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Transfer Restricted Securities and () in circumstances that would adversely affect the Participating Broker-Dealers, the Participating Broker-Dealers holding not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Exchange Notes held by all Participating Broker-Dealers; , , that Section 4 and Section 7 and this Section 10(c) may not be amended, modified or supplemented except pursuant to a written agreement duly signed and delivered by the Issuers, the Guarantors, each Holder and each Participating Broker-Dealer (including any Person who was a Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer of Transfer Restricted Securities or Exchange Notes, as the case may be, disposed of pursuant to any Registration Statement) affected by any such amendment, modification, supplement or waiver.
Amendments and Waivers
I
II
A
B
provided
however
 
(d) . All notices and other communications (including, without limitation, any notices or other communications to the Trustee) provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, next-day air courier or telecopier:
Notices
 
(i) if to a Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities or any Participating Broker-Dealer, at the most current address of such Holder or Participating Broker-Dealer, as the case may be, set forth on the records of the registrar under the Indenture.
 
 
  Ventas, Inc.
  10350 Ormsby Park Place
  Suite 300
  Louisville, Kentucky 40223
  Telephone: (502) 357-9000
  Fax: (502) 357-9001
  Attention: General Counsel
 
 
  Banc of America Securities LLC
  9 West 57
th
Street
  New York, New York 10019
  Fax number: (212) 847 6441
  Attention: High Yield Capital Markets
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: when delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five Business Days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged by the recipient's telecopier machine, if telecopied; and on the next Business Day, if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
 
Copies of all such notices, demands or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee at the address and in the manner specified in the Indenture.
 
(e) . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of each of the parties hereto, the Holders and the Participating Broker-Dealers; , , that this Agreement shall not inure to the benefit of or be binding upon a successor or assign of a Holder unless and to the extent such successor or assign holds Transfer Restricted Securities.
Successors and Assigns
provided
however
 
(f) . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts (including via facsimile) and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
(g) . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
 
(h) . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AS APPLIED TO CONTRACTS MADE AND PERFORMED WHOLLY WITHIN THE STATE OF
Governing Law
 
NEW YORK.
 
(i) . If any term, provision, covenant or restriction of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable, the remainder of the terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions set forth herein shall remain in full force and effect and shall in no way be affected, impaired or invalidated, and the parties hereto shall use their best efforts to find and employ an alternative means to achieve the same or substantially the same result as that contemplated by such term, provision, covenant or restriction. It is hereby stipulated and declared to be the intention of the parties that they would have executed the remaining terms, provisions, covenants and restrictions without including any of such that may be hereafter declared invalid, illegal, void or unenforceable.
Severability
 
(j) . Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Notes constituting Transfer Restricted Securities is required hereunder, Transfer Restricted Securities held by the Issuers or any of its affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
Securities Held by the Issuers or Its Affiliates
 
(k) . Holders and beneficial owners of Transfer Restricted Securities and Participating Broker-Dealers are intended third-party beneficiaries of this Agreement, and this Agreement may be enforced by such Persons. No other Person is intended to be, or shall be construed as, a third-party beneficiary of this Agreement.
Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
(l) . This Agreement, together with the Indenture, is intended by the parties as a final and exclusive statement of the agreement and understanding of the parties hereto in respect of the subject matter contained herein and therein and any and all prior oral or written agreements, representations, or warranties, contracts, understandings, correspondence, conversations and memoranda between the Holders on the one hand and the Issuers and the Guarantors on the other, or between or among any agents, representatives, parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, predecessors in interest or successors in interest with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof are merged herein and replaced hereby.
Entire Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
October 8, 2004
 
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
MERRILL LYNCH, PIERCE, FENNER & SMITH INCORPORATED
UBS SECURITIES LLC
    As Initial Purchasers
c/o Banc of America Securities LLC
9 West 57
th
Street
New York, New York 10019
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership, a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership"), Ventas Capital Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Operating Partnership ("Capital Corp.," and together with the Operating Partnership, the "Issuers"), Ventas, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Ventas"), and Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company ("LLC"), agree with Banc of America Securities LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, and UBS Securities LLC (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers") as set forth herein. The Operating Partnership is wholly-owned, directly and indirectly through LLC, by Ventas. The Operating Partnership, Capital Corp., Ventas and LLC are referred to herein sometimes individually as a "Ventas Entity" and collectively as the "Ventas Entities."
 
The Issuers propose to issue and sell to the Initial Purchasers $125,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 6
 5
/
8
% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "Original Notes"). The Original Notes will be issued under an indenture (the "Indenture") among the Issuers, Ventas, the Guarantors (defined below) and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee"). The Issuers' obligations under the Original Notes and the Indenture will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed, jointly and severally (the "Guarantees"), by Ventas and its direct or indirect subsidiaries identified as guarantors on Schedule B hereto (Ventas, together with such direct and indirect subsidiaries, the "Guarantors"). All references herein to the Original Notes, the Exchange Notes (as defined in Section 1(a)(iv) hereof) or the Notes (as defined in Section 1(a)(iv) hereof) include the related guarantees, unless the context otherwise requires. Notes issued in book-entry form will be issued in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC") pursuant to a DTC Agreement, to be dated at or prior to the Closing Time (as defined in Section 2 hereof) (the "DTC Agreement"), between the Issuers and DTC.
 
The Original Notes will be offered and sold to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"). The Ventas Entities have prepared a preliminary offering memorandum, dated October 8, 2004 (the "Preliminary Offering Memorandum"), and a final offering memorandum, dated the date hereof (the "Offering Memorandum"), relating to the Ventas Entities and the Original Notes.
 
The Initial Purchasers have advised the Issuers that the Initial Purchasers intend, as soon as they deem practicable after this Purchase Agreement (this "Agreement") has been executed and delivered, to resell (the "Exempt Resales") the Original Notes purchased by the Initial Purchasers under this Agreement in private sales exempt from registration under the 1933 Act on the terms set forth in the Offering Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, solely to (i) persons whom the Initial Purchasers reasonably believe to be "qualified institutional buyers," as defined in Rule 144A under the 1933 Act ("QIBs"), pursuant to Rule 144A under the 1933 Act and (ii) other eligible purchasers pursuant to offers and sales that occur outside the United States within the meaning of Regulation S promulgated under the 1933 Act ("Regulation S") pursuant to Regulation S. The persons specified in clauses (i) and (ii) are sometimes collectively referred to herein as the "Eligible Purchasers."
 
Upon the issuance of the Original Notes and until such time as the same is no longer required under the applicable requirements of the 1933 Act, the Original Notes shall bear the legend relating thereto set forth under "Notice to Investors" in the Offering Memorandum.
 
Holders (including subsequent transferees) of the Original Notes will have the registration rights set forth in the registration rights agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") to be dated the Closing Time (as defined in Section 2(b) hereof) substantially in the form as described in the Offering Memorandum. This Agreement, the Original Notes, the Exchange Notes, the Guarantees, the Exchange Note Guarantees (as defined in Section 1(a)(ix) hereof), the Indenture and the Registration Rights Agreement are hereinafter sometimes referred to collectively as the "Note Documents."
 
All references in this Agreement to financial statements and schedules and other information which is "contained," "included," "set forth," "stated," or "incorporated by reference" in the Offering Memorandum (or other references of like import) shall be deemed to mean and include all such financial statements and schedules and other information which are incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum; and all references in this Agreement to amendments or supplements to the Offering Memorandum shall be deemed to mean and include the filing of any document under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (as amended, the "1934 Act") which is incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum.
 
SECTION 1. .
Representations and Warranties
 
(a) The Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, represent and warrant to the Initial Purchasers as of the date hereof, as of the Closing Time referred to in Section 2(b) hereof and agree with the Initial Purchasers, as follows:
Representations and Warranties by the Ventas Entities.
 
(i) Subject to compliance by the Initial Purchasers with the representations, warranties and covenants set forth in Section 1(c) hereof, it is not necessary in connection with the offer, sale and delivery of the Original Notes to the Initial Purchasers and their initial Exempt Resale to Eligible Purchasers in the manner contemplated by this Agreement and the Offering Memorandum to register the Original Notes under the 1933 Act or to qualify the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 (the "Trust Indenture Act," which term, as used herein, includes the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") promulgated thereunder).
No Registration Required
.
 
(ii) . None of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or any supplement or amendment thereto as of its date contained, and the Offering Memorandum as of the Closing Time will not contain, any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The representations and warranties in this subsection shall not apply to statements in or omissions from the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum or any supplement or amendment thereto, made in reliance upon and in conformity with information furnished to Ventas in writing by any Initial Purchaser through Banc of America Securities LLC expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum, the Offering Memorandum or any supplement or amendment thereto; provided that, with respect to the preceding sentence, the Ventas Entities acknowledge that the only information furnished in writing by the Initial Purchasers through Banc of America Securities LLC expressly for use in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum is the statements contained in the fourth paragraph and the ninth paragraph under the caption "Plan of Distribution" therein (the "Initial Purchaser Information"). No order preventing the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum, or any order asserting that any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the registration requirements of the 1933 Act, has been issued or, to the knowledge of any of the Ventas Entities, has been threatened.
Preliminary Offering Memorandum and Offering Memorandum
 
(iii) . All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of Ventas have been duly authorized and validly issued, are fully paid and nonassessable and were not issued in violation of any preemptive or similar right. Attached as Schedule B is a true and complete list identifying each subsidiary (as defined in the 1933 Act) of Ventas, its jurisdiction of incorporation or formation, its direct or indirect percentage equity ownership by Ventas (all such entities, including the Issuers, the "Subsidiaries"). All of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock or other equity interests of each of the Subsidiaries have been duly and validly authorized and issued, are fully paid and (except in the case of general partnership interests) nonassessable, were not issued in violation of any preemptive or similar right and, except as set forth in the Offering Memorandum or on Schedule B, are owned by Ventas, directly or indirectly through one or more Subsidiaries, free and clear of all Liens other than Liens (i) that will be discharged on or prior to the Closing Time or (ii) that are described in the Offering Memorandum and secure indebtedness described in the Offering Memorandum. Except as set forth on Schedule B, there are no outstanding
Capitalization
 
options, warrants or other rights to acquire or purchase, or instruments convertible into or exchangeable for, any shares of capital stock of any of the Subsidiaries. No holder of any securities of Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries is entitled to have such securities (other than the Original Notes) registered under any registration statement contemplated by the Registration Rights Agreement. "Lien" means, with respect to any asset, any mortgage, lien, pledge, charge, security interest or encumbrance of any kind in respect of such asset, whether or not filed, recorded or otherwise perfected under applicable law, including any conditional sale or other title retention agreement, any lease in the nature thereof, any option or other agreement to sell or give a security interest in and any filing of or agreement to give any financing statement under the Uniform Commercial Code (or equivalent statutes) of any jurisdiction.
 
(iv) . The Registration Rights Agreement has been duly authorized by each Ventas Entity and the DTC Agreement has been duly authorized by the Issuers and, at the Closing Time, each such agreement will have been duly executed and delivered by each applicable Ventas Entity, and will constitute a legally binding and valid obligation of each applicable Ventas Entity (assuming, if applicable, the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Initial Purchasers), enforceable against such Ventas Entity and Guarantor in accordance with its terms, except that enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought and except as rights to indemnification and contribution under the Registration Rights Agreement may be limited by federal or state securities laws or principles of public policy.
Authorization of the Registration Rights Agreement and the DTC Agreement
 
(v) . The Indenture has been duly authorized by the Issuers and each of the Guarantors and, at the Closing Time, will have been duly executed and delivered by the Issuers and each of the Guarantors, and will be a legally binding and valid obligation of the Issuers and each of the Guarantors (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the Trustee), enforceable against the Issuers and each of the Guarantors in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought.
Authorization of Indenture
 
(vi) . The Original Notes to be purchased by the Initial Purchasers from the Issuers are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized by the Issuers for issuance and sale pursuant to this Agreement and the Indenture, and at the Closing Time, will have been duly executed by the Issuers and, when authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered by the Issuers against payment by the Initial Purchasers in accordance with the terms of this Agreement, will be legally binding and valid obligations of the Issuers (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee and the due authorization and delivery of the Original Notes by the Trustee in accordance with the
Authorization of the Original Notes
 
Indenture), entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Issuers in accordance with their terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought.
 
(vii) . The Exchange Notes have been duly authorized by the Issuers for issuance, and when issued, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Exchange Offer and the Indenture, will be legally binding and valid obligations of the Issuers (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee and the due authorization and delivery of the Exchange Notes by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture), entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Issuers in accordance with their terms, except that enforceability of the Exchange Notes may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought.
Authorization of the Exchange Notes
 
(viii) The Guarantees are in the form contemplated by the Indenture, have been duly authorized by the Guarantors, and, at the Closing Time, will have been executed by each of the Guarantors and, when the Original Notes are authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture and delivered by the Issuers against payment by the Initial Purchasers in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and the Indenture, will be legally binding and valid obligations of Ventas and each other Guarantor, as the case may be (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee and the due authorization and delivery of the Original Notes by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture), enforceable against each of them in accordance with their terms, except that enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought.
Authorization of the Guarantees.
 
(ix) The guarantees to be endorsed on the Exchange Notes (the "Exchange Note Guarantees"), have been duly authorized by the Guarantors and, when the Exchange Note Guarantees are duly executed by the Guarantors and the Exchange Notes are issued, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Exchange Offer and the Indenture, the Exchange Note Guarantees will be legally binding and valid obligations of Ventas and each other Guarantor, as the case may be (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee and the due authorization and delivery of the Exchange Notes by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture), enforceable against each of them in accordance with their terms, except that enforceability thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of
Authorization of the Guarantees of the Exchange Notes.
 
creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought.
 
(x) . Each of Ventas and its Subsidiaries (a) is a corporation, partnership, limited liability company or real estate investment trust duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, (b) has all requisite corporate, partnership, limited liability company or trust power and authority, and has all governmental licenses, authorizations, consents and approvals, necessary to own its property and carry on its business as now being conducted, except where the failure to obtain any such license, authorization, consent and approval is not reasonably likely, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect (as defined below) and (c) is qualified to do business and is in good standing in all jurisdictions in which the nature of the business conducted by it makes such qualification necessary except where failure to be so qualified and in good standing is not reasonably likely, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect (as defined below). Each Ventas Entity and Guarantor has all requisite corporate, partnership, limited liability company or trust power and authority to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Note Documents to which it is a party and the DTC Agreement, if applicable, and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby to be consummated on its part, including, without limitation, the authority to issue, sell and deliver the Original Notes and issue and deliver the Exchange Notes and to execute, deliver and perform all its obligations under the Guarantees and the Exchange Note Guarantees, as the case may be. A "Material Adverse Effect" means any material adverse effect on the business, condition (financial or other), results of operations, performance or properties of Ventas and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
Good Standing of Ventas and its Subsidiaries; Power and Authority
 
(xi) . This Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered by each of the Ventas Entities.
Authorization of Agreement
 
(xii) . Neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary is in violation of its charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents. Except as described in the Offering Memorandum, neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary is (A) in default (or, with notice or lapse of time or both, would be in default) in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any bond, debenture, note, indenture, mortgage, deed of trust, loan or credit agreement, lease, license, franchise agreement, authorization, permit, certificate or other agreement or instrument to which any of them is a party or by which any of them is bound or to which any of their assets or properties is subject (collectively, "Agreements and Instruments") or (B) in violation of any law, statute, rule, regulation, judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court with jurisdiction over any of them or any of their assets or properties or other governmental or regulatory authority, agency or other body, which, in the case of clauses (A) and (B), individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. There exists no condition that, with notice, the passage of time or otherwise, would constitute a default by Ventas or any Subsidiary under any such document or instrument or result in the imposition of any penalty or the acceleration of
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts
 
any indebtedness, other than penalties, defaults or conditions that, individually or in the aggregate, are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(xiii) . None of the issuance, offer and sale of the Original Notes by the Issuers, the issuance and delivery of the Exchange Notes by the Issuers, the execution, delivery and performance of the Note Documents and the DTC Agreement by the Ventas Entities and Guarantors, as applicable, or the consummation by the Ventas Entities and Guarantors, as applicable, of the transactions contemplated by the Note Documents and the DTC Agreement and in the Offering Memorandum violate or will violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of or a default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge, or encumbrance on any property or assets of Ventas or any Subsidiary pursuant to, (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of Ventas or any Subsidiary, (ii) any law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to Ventas or any Subsidiary or their respective assets or properties, (iii) any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over Ventas or any Subsidiary or their respective assets or properties or (iv) any Agreements or Instruments and except in the case of clauses (ii) and (iv), for such violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults, consents, liens, charges or encumbrances that, individually or in the aggregate, are not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Initial Purchasers in Section 1(c) of this Agreement and the compliance by the Initial Purchasers of their covenants in such section, no consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any court or governmental agency, body or administrative agency, domestic or foreign, is required to be obtained or made by Ventas or any Subsidiary for the execution, delivery and performance by the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors of the Note Documents to which they are a party and the DTC Agreement, if applicable, including the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby, except (x) such as have been or will be obtained or made on or prior to the Closing Time, including, without limitation, such as may be required by state securities laws, (y) registration of the Exchange Offer or resale of the Notes under the 1933 Act pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement and (z) qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act, in connection with the issuance of the Exchange Notes.
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Upon Consummation of Offering
 
(xiv) . Except as set forth in the Offering Memorandum, there is no action, suit or proceeding before or by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, body or official, domestic or foreign, now pending or, to the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, threatened or contemplated, to which Ventas or any Subsidiary is or may be a party or to which the business, assets or property of such person is or may be subject, that is, (i) individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely (a) to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (b) to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Note Documents and the Offering Memorandum or (ii) that would be required to be described in the Offering Memorandum if the Offering Memorandum was a prospectus included in a registration statement under the 1933 Act.
Absence of Proceedings
 
Except as set forth in the Offering Memorandum, there is (A) no statute, rule, regulation or order that has been enacted, adopted or issued or, to the knowledge of any Ventas Entity, that has been proposed by any governmental body or agency, domestic or foreign and (B) no injunction, restraining order or order of any nature by a federal or state court or foreign court of competent jurisdiction to which Ventas or any Subsidiary is or may be subject that in the case of clauses (A) and (B), (1) is, individually or in the aggregate, (x) reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (y) reasonably likely to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Notes in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Note Documents or (2) would be required to be described in the Offering Memorandum if the Offering Memorandum was a prospectus included in a registration statement under the 1933 Act.. Every request of any securities authority or agency of any jurisdiction for additional information with respect to the Notes that has been received by Ventas or any Subsidiary or their counsel prior to the date hereof has been, or will prior to the Closing Time be, complied with in all material respects.
 
(xv) . Except as is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, no labor disturbance by the employees of Ventas or any Subsidiary exists or, to the knowledge of any Ventas Entity, is imminent. Ventas is not aware of any existing or imminent labor disturbance by the employees of Kindred Healthcare, Inc., which may reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Absence of Labor Dispute
 
(xvi) . Except as described in the Offering Memorandum, Ventas and each Subsidiary (A) is in compliance with, or not subject to costs or liabilities under, laws, regulations, rules of common law, orders and decrees, as in effect as of the date hereof, and any present judgments and injunctions issued or promulgated thereunder relating to pollution or protection of public and employee health and safety, the environment or hazardous or toxic substances or wastes, pollutants or contaminants applicable to it or its business or operations or ownership or use of its property ("Environmental Laws"), other than noncompliance or such costs or liabilities that, individually or in the aggregate, is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and (B) possesses all permits, licenses or other approvals required under applicable Environmental Laws, except where the failure to possess any such permit, license or other approval is not reasonably likely to have, either individually or in the aggregate, a Material Adverse Effect. All currently pending and, to the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, threatened proceedings, notices of violation, demands, notices of potential responsibility or liability, suits and existing environmental conditions by any governmental authority to which any of the Ventas Entities is subject that are reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect are fully and accurately described in all material respects in the Offering Memorandum.
Environmental Laws
 
(xvii) . Ventas and each Subsidiary has (A) all licenses, certificates, permits, authorizations, approvals, franchises and other rights from, and has made all declarations and filings with, all applicable authorities, all self-regulatory authorities and all courts and other tribunals (each, an "Authorization") necessary to engage in the business conducted by it in the manner described in the
Possession of Licenses and Permits
 
Offering Memorandum, except where failure to hold such Authorizations is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and (B) no knowledge that any governmental body or agency, domestic or foreign, is considering limiting, suspending or revoking any such Authorization, except where any such limitations, suspensions or revocations is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. All such Authorizations are valid and in full force and effect, and Ventas and each Subsidiary is in compliance with the terms and conditions of all such Authorizations and with the rules and regulations of the regulatory authorities having jurisdiction with respect to such Authorizations, except for any invalidity, failure to be in full force and effect or noncompliance with any Authorization that is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(xviii) . Ventas and each Subsidiary has good and marketable title in fee simple or a ground leasehold interest in all items of real property and good and marketable title to all personal property owned by each of them, in each case free and clear of all Liens, except (i) for Liens described in the Offering Memorandum and (ii) to the extent that the failure to have such title or the presence of such Liens is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect. Any real property and buildings held under lease by Ventas or any Subsidiary are held under valid, subsisting and enforceable leases, except to the extent that the failure to so hold such real property and buildings is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Title to Property
 
(xix) . Each of Ventas' and its Subsidiaries' leases, including the Master Leases (as defined below) has been duly authorized by one or more of Ventas and its Subsidiaries, as applicable, and is a valid and binding agreement of Ventas and/or any such Subsidiary, and, to the knowledge of Ventas and/or any such Subsidiary, each other party thereto, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as enforcement thereof may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, fraudulent conveyance, moratorium or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally and by general principles of equity and the discretion of the court before which any proceedings therefor may be brought. To the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, no lessee or sublessee of any portion of any of the properties owned or leased by Ventas and/or any Subsidiary is in default under its respective lease and there is no event which, but for the passage of time or the giving of notice or both, would constitute a default under any such lease, except as described in the Offering Memorandum and except for such defaults that are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. The term "Master Leases" refers to (i) the four amended and restated master lease agreements, dated as of April 20, 2001, between the Operating Partnership and Kindred Healthcare Inc. and Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc., (ii) the master lease agreement, dated as of December 12, 2001, between Ventas Finance I, LLC (successor by assignment to the Operating Partnership) and Kindred Healthcare Inc. and Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc., and (iii) the master lease agreement, dated as of September 8, 2004, between the Operating Partnership and Kindred Healthcare Inc. and Kindred Healthcare Operating, Inc.
Authorization, etc. of Leases
 
(xx) . Ventas meets the requirements for qualification and taxation as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"). Elder Trust is a "qualified REIT subsidiary" within the meaning of Section 856(i)(2) of the Code.
Qualification as a REIT
 
(xxi) . Ventas and each Subsidiary owns, possesses or has the right to employ all patents, patent rights, licenses, inventions, copyrights, know-how, trademarks, service marks, trade names and other intellectual property (collectively, the "Intellectual Property") necessary to conduct the businesses operated by them as described in the Offering Memorandum, except where the failure to own, possess or have the right to employ such Intellectual Property is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. Neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary has received any notice of infringement of or conflict with (and neither knows of any such infringement or a conflict with) asserted rights of others with respect to any of the foregoing that, if such assertion of infringement or conflict were sustained, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. To the knowledge of the Ventas Entities, the use of the Intellectual Property in connection with the business and operations of Ventas and the Subsidiaries does not infringe on the rights of any person, except for such infringement as is not reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, and neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary has received any notice of, and otherwise has no knowledge of, any threatened or existing action, suit, proceeding or claim by any person challenging use of the Intellectual Property by Ventas and the Subsidiaries.
Possession of Intellectual Property
 
(xxii) All tax returns required to be filed by Ventas and each Subsidiary have been filed in all jurisdictions where such returns are required to be filed; and all taxes, including withholding taxes, value added and franchise taxes, penalties and interest, assessments, fees and other charges due or claimed to be due from such entities or that are due and payable have been paid, other than those being contested in good faith and for which reserves have been provided in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or those currently payable without penalty or interest and except where the failure to make such required filings or payments is not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect. Except as described in the Offering Memorandum, neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary has knowledge of any material proposed additional tax assessments against Ventas or any of the Subsidiaries or their assets or property.
Tax Returns and Payment of Taxes.
 
(xxiii) . Neither Ventas nor any of the Subsidiaries has any liability for any prohibited transaction or accumulated funding deficiency (within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code) or any complete or partial withdrawal liability with respect to any pension, profit sharing or other plan which is subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), to which Ventas or any Subsidiary makes or ever has made a contribution and in which any employee of Ventas or any Subsidiary is or has ever been a participant. With respect to such plans, Ventas and each Subsidiary is in compliance in all material respects with all applicable provisions of ERISA.
Certain ERISA Matters
 
(xxiv) . Neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary is, nor upon the issuance and sale of the Original Notes as herein contemplated and the application of the net proceeds therefrom as described in the Offering Memorandum will be, an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" as such terms are defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "1940 Act").
Investment Company Act
 
(xxv) . Ventas and each Subsidiary maintains or causes to be maintained by the lessee under the leases for its properties insurance covering its properties (including title to its properties), assets, operations, personnel and businesses, and such insurance is of such type and in such amounts in accordance with customary industry practice and in Ventas' reasonable judgment sufficient to protect Ventas and the Subsidiaries and their businesses.
Insurance for Leased Properties
 
(xxvi) . Ventas and each Subsidiary maintains a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that: (A) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations; (B) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of its financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to maintain accountability for assets; (C) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization; and (D) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
Accounting and Other Controls
 
(xxvii) . None of Ventas, its affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 501 under the 1933 Act) (each, an "Affiliate"), or any person acting on its or any of their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to whom the Ventas Entities make no representation or warranty) has, directly or indirectly, solicited any offer to buy or offered to sell, and will not, directly or indirectly, solicit any offer to buy or offer to sell, in the United States or to any United States citizen or resident, any security which is or would be integrated with the initial sale of the Original Notes in a manner that would require the Original Notes to be registered under the 1933 Act. None of Ventas, its Affiliates, or any person acting on its or any of their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to whom the Ventas Entities make no representation or warranty) has engaged or will engage, in connection with the initial offering of the Original Notes contemplated by this Agreement, in any form of general solicitation or general advertising within the meaning of Rule 502 under the 1933 Act. With respect to those Original Notes initially sold in reliance upon Regulation S, (i) none of Ventas, its Affiliates or any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to whom the Ventas Entities make no representation or warranty) has engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts within the meaning of Regulation S and (ii) each of Ventas, its Affiliates and any person acting on its or their behalf (other than the Initial Purchasers, as to whom the Ventas Entities make no representation or warranty) has complied and will comply with the offering restrictions set forth in Regulation S.
No Integration of Offerings or General Solicitation
 
(xxviii) . The Original Notes are eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(3) under the 1933 Act and will not be, at the Closing
Eligibility for Resale under Rule 144A
 
Time, of the same class (within the meaning of Rule 144A) as any class of an Issuer's securities listed on a national securities exchange registered under Section 6 of the 1934 Act or that are quoted in a United States automated interdealer quotation system.
 
(xxix) . As of June 30, 2004, neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary at June 30, 2004 had any material liabilities or obligations, direct or contingent, that were not set forth in Ventas' consolidated balance sheet as of such date, or in the notes thereto, set forth in the Offering Memorandum, or otherwise described therein, other than the performance by Ventas of its obligations under ordinary course executory contracts that are not in default, that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and that are not required by GAAP, as modified by the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1933 Act Regulations"), the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder (the "1934 Act Regulations"), to be disclosed on a regularly prepared balance sheet or in the notes thereto. Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Offering Memorandum, except as otherwise stated therein, (a) neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary has (1) incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (2) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business, (b) there has not been any event or development in respect of the business or condition (financial or other) of Ventas and the Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and (c) there has not been any change in the long-term debt of Ventas (other than as a result of transactions disclosed under the caption "Use of Proceeds" and "Capitalization" in the Offering Memorandum) or any of the Subsidiaries or in the authorized capitalization of Ventas.
No Material Adverse Change in Business
 
(xxx) . Neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary (or any agent thereof acting on their behalf other than the Initial Purchasers, as to which Ventas makes no representation or warranty) has taken, and none of them will take, any action that would cause this Agreement or the issuance or sale of the Notes to violate Regulations T, U or X of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as in effect, or as the same may hereafter be in effect, at the Closing Time.
Regulations T, U, X
 
(xxxi) . Ernst & Young LLP is an independent public accountant as required by the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations. The historical financial statements, together with the related financial schedules and notes thereto, included in the Offering Memorandum present fairly in all material respects the consolidated financial position and results of operations of Ventas and its Subsidiaries at the respective dates and for the respective periods indicated. Such financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis throughout the periods presented (except as disclosed in the Offering Memorandum). The supporting schedules, if any, included in the Offering Memorandum present fairly in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") the information required to be stated therein. The summary financial information included in the Offering Memorandum present fairly the information shown therein and have been compiled on a basis consistent with that of the audited financial statements included in the Offering Memorandum. The other
Independent Accountants and Financial Statements
 
financial and statistical information and data included in the Offering Memorandum are accurately presented in all material respects and prepared on a basis consistent with the financial statements and the books and records of Ventas and the Subsidiaries.
 
(xxxii) . Each of the Ventas Entities, ElderTrust and ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership is and will be, immediately following the issuance of the Original Notes at the Closing Time, Solvent. None of the Ventas Entities, ElderTrust or ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership is contemplating either the filing of a petition by it under any bankruptcy or insolvency laws or the liquidating of all or a substantial portion of its property, and none of the Ventas Entities, ElderTrust or ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership has knowledge of any person contemplating the filing of any such petition against any of the Ventas Entities, ElderTrust or ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership. As used herein, "Solvent" shall mean, for any person on a particular date, that on such date (a) the fair value of the property of such person is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including, without limitation, contingent liabilities, of such person, (b) the present fair salable value of the assets of such person is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of such person on its debts as they become absolute and matured, (c) such person does not intend to, and does not believe that it will, incur debts and liabilities beyond such person's ability to pay as such debts and liabilities mature, (d) such person is not engaged in a business or a transaction, and is not about to engage in a business or a transaction, for which such person's property would constitute an unreasonably small capital and (e) such person is able to pay its debts as they become due and payable.
Solvency
 
(xxxiii) . The documents incorporated or deemed to be incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum, when they became effective or at the time they were or hereafter are filed with the Commission, complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act and the 1933 Act Regulations or the 1934 Act and 1934 Act Regulations, as applicable, and, when read together with the other information in the Offering Memorandum, at the time the Offering Memorandum was issued and at the Closing Time, did not and will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading.
Incorporated Documents
 
(xxxiv) . None of Ventas or any Subsidiary or, to the best of their knowledge, any of their directors, officers or affiliates has (A) taken or will take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to, or that could be reasonably expected to, cause or result in stabilization or manipulation of the price of the Original Notes to facilitate the sale or resale of the Original Notes or (B) sold, bid for, purchased or paid any person any compensation for soliciting purchases of the Original Notes in a manner that would require registration of the Original Notes under the 1933 Act or paid or agreed to pay to any person any compensation for soliciting another to purchase any other securities of any Ventas Entity in a manner that would require registration of the Original Notes under the 1933 Act.
No Stabilization or Manipulation
 
(xxxv) . Except as described in the section of the Offering Memorandum entitled "Plan of Distribution," there are no contracts, agreements or
Distribution
 
understandings between Ventas or any Subsidiary and any other person that would give rise to a valid claim against Ventas, any Subsidiary or the Initial Purchasers for a brokerage commission, finder's fee or like payment in connection with the issuance, purchase and sale of the Original Notes.
 
(xxxvi) . All (A) statistical and market-related data and (B) data (including financial information) with respect to Kindred Healthcare Inc. included in the Offering Memorandum are based on or derived from sources that the Ventas Entities reasonably believe to be accurate in all material respects or represent the Ventas Entities' good faith estimates that are made on the basis of data derived from sources the Ventas Entities reasonably believe to be reliable and accurate in all material respects.
Statistical and Other Data
 
(xxxvii) As of the Closing Time there will exist no event or condition which would constitute a default or an event of default under any of the Note Documents. The Note Documents will conform in all material respects to the respective statements relating thereto contained in the Offering Memorandum.
No Default under Note Documents, Etc.
 
(xxxviii) . Ventas is in compliance in all material respects with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that are effective and is actively taking steps to provide that it will be in compliance with other applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 upon the effectiveness of such provisions.
Sarbanes-Oxley Compliance
 
(b) Any certificate signed by any officer of any Ventas Entity or any Subsidiary addressed and delivered to the Initial Purchasers or to counsel for the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed a representation and warranty by the Ventas Entities to the Initial Purchasers as to the matters covered thereby. The Ventas Entities acknowledge that the Initial Purchasers and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered to the Initial Purchasers pursuant to Section 5 of this Agreement, counsel to the Ventas Entities and counsel to the Initial Purchasers will rely upon the accuracy of the foregoing representations, and the Ventas Entities hereby consent to such reliance.
Officer's Certificates.
 
(c) . Each Initial Purchaser acknowledges that it is purchasing the Original Notes pursuant to a private sale exemption from registration under the 1933 Act, and that the Original Notes have not been registered under the 1933 Act and may not be offered or sold within the United States or to, or for the account or benefit of, U.S. persons except pursuant to an exemption from the registration requirements of the 1933 Act. Each Initial Purchaser severally and not jointly represents, warrants and covenants to the Ventas Entities that:
Representations and Warranties by the Initial Purchasers
 
(i) (A) Neither it nor any person acting on its behalf, has or will solicit offers for, or offer or sell, the Original Notes by any form of general solicitation or general advertising (as those terms are used in Regulation D under the 1933 Act) or in any manner involving a public offering within the meaning of Section 4(2) of the 1933 Act and (B) it has and will solicit offers for the Original Notes only from, and will offer and
 
sell the Original Notes only to (1) persons whom such Initial Purchaser reasonably believes to be QIBs or, if any such person is buying for one or more institutional accounts for which such person is acting as fiduciary or agent, only when such person has represented to such Initial Purchaser that each such account is a QIB to whom notice has been given that such sale or delivery is being made in reliance on Rule 144A, and, in each case, in reliance on the exemption from the registration requirements of the 1933 Act pursuant to Rule 144A, or (2) persons who are outside the United States and are other than U.S. persons, in reliance on the exemption from the registration requirements of the 1933 Act provided by Regulation S.
 
(ii) With respect to offers and sales outside the United States, such Initial Purchaser has offered the Original Notes and will offer and sell the Original Notes (1) as part of its distribution at any time and (2) otherwise until 40 days after the later of the commencement of the offering of the Original Notes and the Closing Time, only in accordance with Rule 903 of Regulation S or another exemption from the registration requirements of the 1933 Act. Accordingly, neither such Initial Purchaser nor any persons acting on its behalf has engaged or will engage in any directed selling efforts (within the meaning of Regulation S) with respect to the Original Notes, and any such persons have complied and will comply with the offering restrictions requirements of Regulation S. Terms used in this Section 1(c)(ii) have the meanings given to them by Regulation S.
 
(iii) It is a QIB.
 
(iv) It will deliver to each purchaser of Original Notes from such Initial Purchaser in connection with the initial resale of the Original Notes, a copy of the Offering Memorandum, as amended or supplemented at the date of such delivery.
 
Each Initial Purchaser understands that the Ventas Entities and, for purposes of the opinions to be delivered to them pursuant to Section 5 hereof, counsel to the Ventas Entities and counsel to the Initial Purchasers will rely upon the accuracy and truth of the foregoing representations, and each Initial Purchaser hereby consents to such reliance.
 
SECTION 2. .
Sale and Delivery to the Initial Purchasers; Closing
 
(a) On the basis of the representations and warranties herein contained and subject to the terms and conditions herein set forth, the Issuers agree to issue and sell to the Initial Purchasers, and the Initial Purchasers, severally and not jointly, agree to purchase from the Issuers, the principal amount of Original Notes set forth opposite such Initial Purchaser's name on Schedule A hereto. The purchase price for the Original Notes shall be 98.5% of their principal amount.
Agreement to Sell and Purchase.
 
(b) Payment of the purchase price for and delivery of the Original Notes shall be made at the offices of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, 919 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022, or at such other place as shall be agreed upon by the Initial Purchasers and the Issuers, at 9:00 A.M. (Eastern time) on October 15, 2004 or such other time and date as Banc of
Payment.
 
America Securities LLC and the Issuers shall agree (such time and date of payment and delivery being herein called "Closing Time").
 
Payment shall be made to the Issuers by wire transfer of immediately available funds to a bank account designated by the Issuers, against delivery to the Initial Purchasers of the Original Notes to be purchased by them.
 
(c) One or more of the Original Notes in global form shall be in such denominations and registered in the name of Cede & Co., as nominee of DTC, pursuant to the DTC Agreement. The Original Notes will be made available for examination by the Initial Purchasers in The City of New York not later than 2:00 P.M. (Eastern time) on the business day prior to the Closing Time.
Denominations; Registration.
 
SECTION 3. . The Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, covenant with the Initial Purchasers as follows:
Covenants of the Ventas Entities
 
(a) To furnish promptly to the Initial Purchasers and those persons identified by the Initial Purchasers, without charge, as many copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, and any amendments or supplements thereto, as the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request. The Ventas Entities consent to the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum, and any amendments and supplements thereto required pursuant to this Agreement, by the Initial Purchasers in connection with Exempt Resales in accordance with Section 1(c) hereof.
Delivery of Offering Memorandum.
 
(b) Not to amend or supplement the Offering Memorandum, or file any document with the Commission pursuant to the 1934 Act, prior to the Closing Time unless the Initial Purchasers shall previously have been advised of such proposed amendment or supplement, or filing, as soon as reasonably practicable prior to the proposed use, or filing, and shall not have reasonably objected to such amendment or supplement.
Amendments and 1934 Act Filings.
 
(c) If, prior to the time that the Initial Purchasers have completed their distribution of the Original Notes, any event shall occur that, in the reasonable judgment of the Ventas Entities or their counsel, makes any statement of a material fact in the Offering Memorandum, as then amended or supplemented, untrue or that requires the making of any additions to or changes in the Offering Memorandum in order to make the statements in the Offering Memorandum, as then amended or supplemented, in the light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading, or if it is necessary to amend or supplement the Offering Memorandum to comply with applicable law, the Ventas Entities shall notify promptly the Initial Purchasers of such event and (subject to Section 3(b)) prepare an appropriate amendment or supplement to the Offering Memorandum and, with respect to documents incorporated by reference, file with the Commission, so that (i) the statements in the Offering Memorandum, as amended or supplemented, will, in the light of the circumstances at the time that the Offering Memorandum is delivered to prospective Eligible Purchasers, not be misleading and (ii) the Offering Memorandum will comply with applicable law.
Amendments and Supplements.
 
(d) To use their reasonable best efforts, in cooperation with the Initial Purchasers, to qualify the Original Notes for offering and sale under the applicable
Blue Sky Qualifications.
 
securities laws of such states and other jurisdictions (domestic or foreign) as the Initial Purchasers may designate and to maintain such qualifications in effect so long as required for the Exempt Resales; provided, however, that the Ventas Entities shall not be obligated to file any general consent to service of process or to qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction in which they are not so qualified or to subject itself to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which they are not otherwise so subject. In each jurisdiction in which the Original Notes have been so qualified, the Ventas Entities will file such statements and reports as may be required by the laws of such jurisdiction to continue such qualification in effect so long as required for the Exempt Resales.
 
(e) To advise the Initial Purchasers promptly and, if requested by the Initial Purchasers, to confirm such advice in writing, of the issuance by any securities commission of any stop order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Original Notes for offering or sale in any jurisdiction, or the initiation of any proceeding for such purpose by any securities commission or other regulatory authority. The Ventas Entities shall use their reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop order or order suspending the qualification or exemption of any of the Original Notes under any securities laws, and if at any time any securities commission or other regulatory authority shall issue an order suspending the qualification or exemption of any of the Original Notes under any securities laws, the Ventas Entities shall use their reasonable best efforts to obtain the withdrawal or lifting of such order at the earliest possible time.
Compliance with Securities Regulations.
 
(f) . To use the net proceeds from the sale of the Original Notes in the manner described in the Offering Memorandum under "Use of Proceeds."
Use of Proceeds
 
(g) . Not to, and not to permit any of their subsidiaries to, sell, offer for sale or solicit offers to buy any security (as defined in the 1933 Act) that would be integrated with the sale of the Original Notes in a manner that would require the registration under the 1933 Act of the initial sale of the Original Notes to the Initial Purchasers or any Eligible Purchasers.
Integration
 
(h) . Not to and to use their reasonable best efforts to cause their affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 144 under the 1933 Act ("Affiliates)) not to, resell during the two-year period following the Closing Time any of the Original Notes that have been reacquired by any of them (it being understood that as to entities who are Affiliates solely by reason of being a stockholder of Ventas, the Ventas Entities will be deemed to have used their reasonable best efforts after giving written notice to such stockholders of the prohibition set forth in this paragraph (h)).
Affiliate Resales
 
(i) . Not to engage, nor allow any of their subsidiaries to engage, and to use their reasonable best efforts to cause their other Affiliates and any person acting on their behalf (other than, in any case, the Initial Purchasers and any of their Affiliates, as to whom the Ventas Entities make no covenant) not to engage, in any form of general solicitation or general advertising (within the meaning of Regulation D under the 1933 Act) in connection with the initial offer or sale of the Original Notes in the United States.
General Solicitation
 
(j) . Not to engage, nor allow any of their subsidiaries to engage, and to use their reasonable best efforts to cause their other Affiliates and any person
Directed Selling Efforts
 
acting on their behalf (other than, in any case, the Initial Purchasers and any of their affiliates, as to whom the Ventas Entities make no covenant) not to engage, in any "directed selling effort" as defined in Regulation S with respect to the Original Notes, and to comply with the offering restrictions requirement of Regulation S; provided, however, that direct or indirect actions of the Initial Purchasers that are prohibited by this Agreement shall not constitute a breach of this covenant.
 
(k) . From and after the Closing Time, for so long as any of the Original Notes remain outstanding and are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144(a)(3) under the 1933 Act and during any period in which the availability of adequate current public information, for purposes of Rule 144(c) under the 1933 Act and in connection with the public resale of the Original Notes, is not satisfied by the filing of reports under the 1934 Act by one or more of the Ventas Entities, to make available upon request the information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the 1933 Act to (i) any holder or beneficial owner of Original Notes in connection with any sale of such Original Notes and (ii) any prospective purchaser of such Original Notes from any such holder or beneficial owner designated by the holder or beneficial owner. The Ventas Entities will be obligated, jointly and severally, for the expenses of printing and distributing such documents.
Future Reports
 
(l) To comply with all of their obligations set forth in the DTC Agreement relating to the approval of the Original Notes by DTC for "book-entry" transfer and will use their best efforts to obtain approval of the Original Notes by DTC for "book-entry" transfer.
DTC.
 
(m) . To use their best efforts to cause the Original Notes to be eligible for the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. PORTAL Market ("PORTAL") (it being understood that the Initial Purchasers shall be responsible for submitting the application for such inclusion to PORTAL).
Portal Qualification
 
(n) Prior to the Closing Time, to furnish without charge to the Initial Purchasers, (i) as soon as they have been prepared, a copy of any regularly prepared internal financial statements of the Ventas Entities and their subsidiaries for any period subsequent to the period covered by the financial statements appearing in the Offering Memorandum, (ii) all other reports and other communications (financial or otherwise) that any of the Ventas Entities mail or otherwise make available to their security holders and (iii) such other information as the Initial Purchasers shall reasonably request.
Additional Issuer Information.
 
(o) The Ventas Entities shall deliver to the Initial Purchasers a true and correct copy of each of the Note Documents, together with all related agreements and all schedules and exhibits thereto.
Delivery of Note Documents.
 
(p) . Each certificate for an Original Note will bear the legend contained in "Transfer Restrictions" in the Offering Memorandum for the time period and upon the other terms stated in the Offering Memorandum.
Legended Securities
 
SECTION 4. .
Payment of Expenses
 
(a) The Ventas Entities will pay all costs, fees and expenses incident to the performance of their obligations under this Agreement, including (i) the preparation, printing and
Expenses.
 
distribution of each Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum (including financial statements and exhibits) and of each amendment and supplement thereto, (ii) the preparation, notarization (if necessary), and delivery to the Initial Purchasers of the Note Documents, the DTC Agreement and such other documents as may be reasonably required in connection with the offering, purchase, sale, issuance or delivery of the Notes and in connection with the Exempt Resales, (iii) the issuance, transfer and delivery of the Original Notes and the Guarantees to the Initial Purchasers, including any transfer taxes and any stamp or other duties payable upon the sale, issuance or delivery of the Original Notes to the Initial Purchasers, (iv) the fees and disbursements of the Ventas Entities' and the Guarantors' counsel, accountants and other advisors, (v) the qualification of the Original Notes under securities laws in accordance with the provisions of Section 3(d) hereof, including filing fees and the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Initial Purchasers in connection therewith and in connection with the preparation of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplements thereto (provided that the Ventas Entities will only be responsible for paying costs, fees and expenses incurred under this clause (v) in an aggregate amount not to exceed $5,000), (vi) the printing and delivery to the Initial Purchasers of such copies of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum and the Offering Memorandum and any amendments or supplements thereto, as may be reasonably requested for use in connection with Exempt Resales, (vii) the preparation, printing and delivery to the Initial Purchasers of a reasonable number of copies of the Blue Sky Survey and any supplement thereto, (viii) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, including the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Trustee in connection with the Indenture and the Notes, (ix) the preparation of certificates for the Notes, (x) the application for quotation of the Notes in PORTAL, including, but not limited to, all listing fees and expenses, (xi) the approval of the Notes by DTC for "book-entry" transfer, (xii) the rating of the Notes by rating agencies, and (xiii) the performance by the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors of their other obligations under the Note Documents.
 
(b) If this Agreement is terminated by the Initial Purchasers in accordance with the provisions of Section 5 or Section 9(a)(i) hereof, the Ventas Entities shall reimburse the Initial Purchasers for all of their reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for the Initial Purchasers.
Termination of Agreement.
 
SECTION 5. . The obligations of the Initial Purchasers hereunder are subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Ventas Entities contained in Section 1 hereof or in certificates of any officer of any Ventas Entity or any Subsidiary delivered pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Ventas Entities of their covenants and other obligations hereunder, and to the following further conditions:
Conditions of the Initial Purchaser's Obligations
 
(a) No stop order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of the Original Notes in any jurisdiction shall have been issued and no proceeding for that purpose shall have been commenced or shall be pending or threatened.
No Stop Order.
 
(b) . No action shall have been taken and no statute, rule, regulation or order shall have been enacted, adopted or issued by any governmental agency that would, as of the Closing Time, prevent the issuance of the Original Notes or consummation of the Exchange Offer; except as disclosed in the Offering Memorandum, no action, suit or proceeding shall have been commenced and be pending against or affecting or, to the knowledge of the
No Proceedings
 
Ventas Entities, threatened against any Ventas Entity before any court or arbitrator or any governmental body, agency or official that is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect or to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance of the Original Notes or the Guarantees in any jurisdiction or adversely affect the consummation of the transactions contemplated by any of the Note Documents; and no stop order preventing the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or any order asserting that any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the registration requirements of the 1933 Act shall have been issued.
 
(c) . As of June 30, 2004, neither of Ventas nor any Subsidiary at June 30, 2004 had any material liabilities or obligations, direct or, contingent, that were not set forth in Ventas' consolidated balance sheet as of such date or in the notes thereto, set forth in the Offering Memorandum or otherwise described in the Offering Memorandum, other than the performance by Ventas of its obligations under ordinary course executory contracts that are not in default, that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and that are not required by GAAP, as modified by the 1933 Act, 1933 Act Regulations, the 1934 Act and 1934 Act Regulations, to be disclosed on a regularly prepared balance sheet or in the notes thereto. Since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Offering Memorandum, except as otherwise stated therein, (a) neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary has (1) incurred any liability or obligation, direct or contingent, that is, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect, or (2) entered into any material transaction not in the ordinary course of business, (b) there has not been any event or development in respect of the business or condition (financial or other) of Ventas and the Subsidiaries that, individually or in the aggregate, is reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect and (c) there has not been any change in the long-term debt of Ventas (other than as a result of transactions disclosed under the caption "Use of Proceeds" and "Capitalization" in the Offering Memorandum) or any of the Subsidiaries or in the authorized capitalization of Ventas.
No Material Liabilities, Events
 
(d) At Closing Time, the Initial Purchasers shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of:
Opinion of Counsel for Company.
 
(i) T. Richard Riney, general counsel for the Ventas Entities, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-1 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request;
 
(ii) Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, as counsel for the Ventas Entities, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-2 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request;
 
(iii) Venable LLP, or such other Maryland counsel reasonably acceptable to the Initial Purchasers, as counsel for the Guarantors, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-3 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request; and
 
(iv) Greenberg Traurig, LLP, as regulatory counsel for the Ventas Entities, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to counsel for the Initial Purchasers to the effect set forth in Exhibit A-4 hereto and to such further effect as counsel to the Initial Purchasers may reasonably request.
 
(e) At Closing Time, the Initial Purchasers shall have received the favorable opinion, dated as of Closing Time, of Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, counsel for the Initial Purchasers in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers.
Opinion of Counsel for the Initial Purchasers.
 
(f) At Closing Time, there shall not have been, since the date hereof or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Offering Memorandum, any material adverse change in the business, condition, financial or otherwise, results of operations, performance or properties of Ventas and the Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, and the Initial Purchasers shall have received a certificate of the Chief Executive Officer and President of Ventas, the Chief Financial Officer of Ventas and the Chief Accounting Officer of Ventas, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that (i) there has been no such material adverse change, (ii) the representations and warranties in Section 1(a) hereof are true and correct with the same force and effect as though expressly made at and as of Closing Time, (iii) the Ventas Entities have complied with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on their part to be performed or satisfied at or prior to Closing Time, and (iv) no stop order preventing the use of the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum, or any amendment or supplement thereto, or any order asserting that any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement are subject to the registration requirements of the 1933 Act shall have been issued.
Officers' Certificate.
 
(g) At the time of the execution of this Agreement, the Initial Purchasers shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter, dated such date, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' "comfort letters" to underwriters with respect to the financial statements and certain financial information contained in the Offering Memorandum.
Accountant's Comfort Letter.
 
(h) At Closing Time, the Initial Purchasers shall have received from Ernst & Young LLP a letter, dated as of Closing Time, to the effect that they reaffirm the statements made in the letter furnished pursuant to subsection (g) of this Section, except that the specified date referred to shall be a date not more than three business days prior to Closing Time.
Bring-down Comfort Letter.
 
(i) At Closing Time, the Original Notes shall be eligible for trading in the PORTAL upon issuance.
PORTAL.
 
(j) The Indenture shall have been executed and delivered by the parties thereto, and the Initial Purchasers shall have received copies, conformed as executed, thereof.
Indenture.
 
(k) . The Ventas Entities shall have executed and delivered the Registration Rights Agreement, and the Initial Purchasers shall have received counterparts, conformed as executed, thereof.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
(l) All government authorizations required in connection with the issue and sale of the Original Notes as contemplated under this Agreement and the performance of the Ventas Entities' obligations hereunder and under the Indenture and the Original Notes shall be in full force and effect.
Government Authorizations.
 
(m) . All agreements set forth in the DTC Agreement relating to the approval of the Original Notes by DTC for "book-entry" transfer shall have been complied with.
DTC Agreement
 
(n) . There shall not have been any announcement by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization," as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g) under the 1933 Act, that (i) it is downgrading its rating assigned to any class of securities of any Ventas Entity or (ii) it is reviewing its ratings assigned to any class of securities of any Ventas Entity with a view to possible downgrading, or with negative implications, or direction not determined.
No Ratings Downgrade
 
(o) At Closing Time, counsel for the Initial Purchasers shall have been furnished with such documents and opinions as they may reasonably require for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon the issuance and sale of the Original Notes as herein contemplated, or in order to evidence the accuracy of any of the representations or warranties, or the fulfillment of any of the conditions, herein contained; and all proceedings taken by the Ventas Entities in connection with the issuance and sale of the Original Notes as herein contemplated shall be reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the Initial Purchasers and counsel for the Initial Purchasers.
Additional Documents.
 
(p) If any condition specified in this Section shall not have been fulfilled when and as required to be fulfilled, this Agreement may be terminated by the Initial Purchasers by notice to the Ventas Entities at any time at or prior to Closing Time, and such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 and except that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Termination of Agreement.
 
SECTION 6. .
Indemnification
 
(a) . Each of the Ventas Entities, jointly and severally, agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Initial Purchasers and each person, if any, who controls the Initial Purchasers within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, the agents, employees, officers and directors of the Initial Purchasers and the agents, employees, officers and directors of any such controlling person as follows:
Indemnification of the Initial Purchasers by the Ventas Entities
 
(i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto), or the omission or alleged omission
 
therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
 
(ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense whatsoever, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 6(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of Ventas; and
 
(iii) against any and all expense whatsoever, as incurred (including the fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by Banc of America Securities LLC), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under (i) or (ii) above;
 
, , that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made therein in reliance upon and in conformity with the Initial Purchaser Information; , that this indemnity agreement with respect to the Preliminary Offering Memorandum shall not inure to the benefit of any Initial Purchaser (or to the benefit of any person controlling such person) from whom the person asserting any such loss, damage, expense, liability or claim purchased the Original Notes that are the subject thereof if the Offering Memorandum corrected any such alleged untrue statement or omission and if such Initial Purchaser failed to send or give a copy of the Offering Memorandum to such person at or prior to the written confirmation of the sale of such Original Notes to such person, unless the failure is the result of non-compliance by any of the Ventas Entities with paragraph (a) of Section 3 hereof. This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability that the Ventas Entities may otherwise have, including, but not limited to, liability under this Agreement.
provided
however
provided further
 
(b) Each Initial Purchaser agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Ventas Entities, each person, if any, who controls any Ventas Entity within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act and each of their respective agents, employees, officers and directors and the agents, employees, officers and directors of any such controlling person against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in subsection (a) of this Section, as incurred, but only with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions relating to the Initial Purchasers, made in the Preliminary Offering Memorandum or the Offering Memorandum (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with the Initial Purchaser Information.
Indemnification of Ventas Entities, Directors and Officers.
 
(c) Each indemnified party shall give notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure to so notify an
Actions against Parties; Notification.
 
indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder, except to the extent it is materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. In the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(a) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by the Initial Purchasers, subject to the reasonable approval of the indemnifying party, and, in the case of parties indemnified pursuant to Section 6(b) above, counsel to the indemnified parties shall be selected by Ventas. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of any such action; , , that counsel to the indemnifying party shall not (except with the consent of the indemnified party) also be counsel to the indemnified party. In no event shall the indemnifying parties be liable for fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could reasonably be sought under this Section 6 or Section 7 hereof (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
provided
however
 
(d) If at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel, such indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of the nature contemplated by Section 6(a)(ii) effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 45 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request, (ii) such indemnifying party shall have received notice of the terms of such settlement at least 30 days prior to such settlement being entered into and (iii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed such indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement; , that an indemnifying party shall not be liable for any such settlement effected without its consent if such indemnifying party (1) reimburses such indemnified party in accordance with such request to the extent it considers such request to be reasonable and (2) provides written notice to the indemnified party substantiating the unpaid balance as unreasonable, in each case prior to the date of such settlement.
Settlement without Consent if Failure to Reimburse.
provided
 
(e) The provisions of this Section shall not affect any agreement between the Ventas Entities with respect to indemnification.
Other Agreements With Respect to Indemnification.
 
SECTION 7. . If the indemnification provided for in Section 6 hereof is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Ventas Entities on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on
Contribution
 
the other hand from the offering of the Original Notes pursuant to this Agreement or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Ventas Entities on the one hand and of the Initial Purchasers on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.
 
The relative benefits received by the Ventas Entities on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand in connection with the offering of the Original Notes pursuant to this Agreement shall be deemed to be in the same respective proportions as the total net proceeds from the offering of the Original Notes pursuant to this Agreement (before deducting expenses) received by the Issuers and the total discount received by the Initial Purchasers, in each case as set forth in this Agreement, bear to the aggregate initial offering price of the Original Notes as set forth on such cover.
 
The relative fault of the Ventas Entities, on the one hand and the Initial Purchasers on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Ventas Entities or by the Initial Purchasers and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.
 
The Ventas Entities and the Initial Purchasers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 7 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 7. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 7 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 7, no Initial Purchaser shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Original Notes underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Initial Purchaser has otherwise been required to pay by reason of any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.
 
No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.
 
For purposes of this Section 7, each person, if any, who controls any of the Initial Purchasers within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Initial Purchasers, and each officer and director of any Ventas Entity, and each person, if any, who controls any Ventas Entity within the meaning of
 
Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Ventas Entity.
 
The provisions of this Section shall not affect any agreement among the Ventas Entities with respect to contribution.
 
SECTION 8. . All representations, warranties and agreements contained in this Agreement or in certificates of officers of the Ventas Entities or any of Ventas' Subsidiaries submitted pursuant hereto, shall remain operative and in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of the Initial Purchasers or controlling person, or by or on behalf of Ventas, and shall survive delivery of the Original Notes to the Initial Purchasers.
Representations, Warranties and Agreements to Survive Delivery
 
SECTION 9. .
Termination of Agreement
 
(a) The Initial Purchasers may terminate this Agreement, by notice to Ventas, at any time at or prior to Closing Time (i) if there has been, since the time of execution of this Agreement or since the respective dates as of which information is given in the Offering Memorandum (exclusive of any supplement thereto), any material adverse change in the business, condition, financial or otherwise, results of operations, performance, properties or business prospects of Ventas and the Subsidiaries considered as one enterprise, whether or not arising in the ordinary course of business, or (ii) if there has occurred any material adverse change in the financial markets in the United States or in the international financial markets, any outbreak of hostilities or escalation thereof or other calamity or crisis or any change or development involving a prospective change in national or international political, financial or economic conditions, in each case the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Initial Purchasers, impracticable or inadvisable to market the Original Notes or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Original Notes, or (iii) if trading in any securities of the Ventas Entities has been suspended or materially limited by the Commission or the New York Stock Exchange, or if trading generally on the American Stock Exchange or the New York Stock Exchange or in the Nasdaq National Market has been suspended or materially limited, or minimum or maximum prices for trading have been fixed, or maximum ranges for prices have been required, by any of said exchanges or by such system or by order of the Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or any other governmental authority, or a material disruption has occurred in commercial banking or securities settlement or clearance services in the United States, or (iv) if a banking moratorium has been declared by either Federal or New York authorities.
Termination; General.
 
(b) If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to this Section, such termination shall be without liability of any party to any other party except as provided in Section 4 hereof, and provided further that Sections 1, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive such termination and remain in full force and effect.
Liabilities.
 
SECTION 10. . If the Issuers shall fail at Closing Time to sell the principal amount of Original Notes that they are obligated to sell hereunder, then this Agreement shall terminate without any liability on the part of any nondefaulting party; provided, however, that the provisions of Sections 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8 shall remain in full force and effect. No action
Default by the Issuers
 
taken pursuant to this Section shall relieve the Issuers from liability, if any, in respect of such default.
 
SECTION 11. . If any one or more of the several Initial Purchasers shall fail or refuse to purchase Original Notes that it or they have agreed to purchase hereunder at the Closing Time, and the aggregate principal amount of Original Notes which such defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed or refused to purchase does not exceed 10% of the aggregate principal amount of the Original Notes to be purchased on such date, the other Initial Purchasers shall be obligated, severally, in the proportions that the principal amount of Original Notes set forth opposite their respective names on Schedule A bears to the aggregate principal amount of Original Notes set forth opposite the names of all such non-defaulting Initial Purchasers, or in such other proportions as may be specified by the Initial Purchasers with the consent of the non-defaulting Initial Purchasers, to purchase the Original Notes which such defaulting Initial Purchaser or Initial Purchasers agreed but failed or refused to purchase on such date. If any one or more of the Initial Purchasers shall fail or refuse to purchase Original Notes and the aggregate principal amount of Original Notes with respect to which such default occurs exceeds 10% of the aggregate principal amount of Original Notes to be purchased at the Closing Time, and arrangements satisfactory to the Initial Purchasers and the Issuers for the purchase of such Original Notes are not made within 48 hours after such default, this Agreement shall terminate without liability of any party to any other party (other than defaulting Initial Purchasers) except that the provisions of Section 3, Section 4, Section 6 and Section 7 shall at all times be effective and shall survive such termination. In any such case, either the Initial Purchasers or the Issuers shall have the right to postpone the Closing Time, as the case may be, but in no event for longer than seven days in order that the required changes, if any, to the Offering Memorandum or any other documents or arrangements may be effected.
Default of One or More of the Several Initial Purchasers
 
As used in this Agreement, the term "Initial Purchaser" shall be deemed to include any person substituted for a defaulting Initial Purchaser under this Section 11. Any action taken under this Section 11 shall not relieve any defaulting Initial Purchaser from liability in respect of any default of such Initial Purchaser under this Agreement.
 
SECTION 12. . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication. Notices to the Initial Purchasers shall be directed to Banc of America Securities LLC at 9 West 57
Notices
th
Street, New York, New York 10019, attention of Transaction Management, with a copy to Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, 919 Third Avenue, New York, New York 10022, attention of Michael W. Blair and Peter J. Loughran; and notices to the Ventas Entities shall be directed to Ventas at 10350 Ormsby Park Place, Suite 300, Louisville, Kentucky 40223, attention of T. Richard Riney, General Counsel, with a copy to Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019, attention of David K. Boston and Leslie M. Mazza.
 
SECTION 13. . This Agreement shall each inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the Initial Purchasers and the Ventas Entities and their respective successors. Nothing expressed or mentioned in this Agreement is intended or shall be construed to give any person, firm or corporation, other than the Initial Purchasers and the Ventas Entities and their respective
Parties
 
successors and the controlling persons and officers and directors referred to in Sections 6 and 7 and their heirs and legal representatives, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement or any provision herein contained. This Agreement and all conditions and provisions hereof are intended to be for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Initial Purchasers and the Ventas Entities and their respective successors, and said controlling persons and officers and directors and their heirs and legal representatives, and for the benefit of no other person, firm or corporation. No purchaser of Original Notes from the Initial Purchasers shall be deemed to be a successor by reason merely of such purchase.
 
SECTION 14. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED IN SUCH STATE. EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE SET FORTH HEREIN, SPECIFIED TIMES OF DAY REFER TO NEW YORK CITY TIME.
GOVERNING LAW AND TIME
 
SECTION 15. . Any legal suit, action or proceeding arising out of or based upon this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby ("Related Proceedings") may be instituted in the federal courts of the United States of America located in the City and County of New York or the courts of the State of New York in each case located in the City and County of New York (collectively, the "Specified Courts"), and each party irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of such courts in any such suit, action or proceeding. Service of any process, summons, notice or document by mail to such party's address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court. The parties irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit, action or other proceeding in the Specified Courts and irrevocably and unconditionally waive and agree not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit, action or other proceeding brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
Submission to Jurisdiction
 
SECTION 16. . The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
Effect of Headings
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to Ventas a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts (including via facsimile), will become a binding agreement between the Initial Purchasers and the Ventas Entities in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A-1
 
 
The opinion of T. Richard Riney, Esq., the General Counsel of the Ventas Entities (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Purchase Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(d)(i) of the Purchase Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
(i) Except as set forth in the Offering Memorandum or as could not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or to interfere with or adversely affect the issuance and sale of the Notes or Guarantees or the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, to my knowledge there is no (A) action, suit or proceeding before or by any court, arbitrator or governmental agency, body or official, domestic, or foreign, now pending or threatened or contemplated, to which Ventas or any Subsidiary is or may be a party or to which the business, assets or property of such person is or may be subject, (B) statute, rule, regulation or order relating to or affecting Ventas or any Subsidiary that has been enacted, adopted, issued or proposed by any governmental body or agency or (C) injunction, restraining order or order of any nature by a federal or state court or foreign court of competent jurisdiction to which Ventas or any Subsidiary is or may be subject.
 
(ii) To my knowledge, except as described in the Offering Memorandum, none of the Issuers and the Guarantors is in violation of its charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents and, other than as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, no default by Ventas or any Subsidiary exists in the due performance or observance of any material obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other agreement or instrument that is described or referred to in the Offering Memorandum to which Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries are a party or filed or incorporated by reference as an exhibit to any of the filings incorporated by reference into the Offering Memorandum.
 
(iii) To my knowledge, there are no statutes or regulations that would be required to be described in the Offering Memorandum if the Offering Memorandum was a prospectus included in a registration statement under the 1933 Act that are not so described as would be required.
 
(iv) The shares of issued and outstanding capital stock, limited partnership interests or other similar ownership interests of each of the Issuers have been duly authorized and validly issued and are fully paid and non-assessable. Except as otherwise disclosed in the Offering Memorandum, based solely on a review of the applicable limited liability company membership agreements, limited partnership agreements of each partnership and corporate stock transfer ledgers or as otherwise indicated in paragraph A below, all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Ventas Entity that is a corporation, all of the issued and outstanding partnership interests of each Subsidiary set forth on Schedule I hereto (each, a "Designated Subsidiary") that
 
is a partnership (other than the Class C (LIHTC) Units of ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership, which are not owned directly or indirectly by Ventas), and all of the issued and outstanding membership interests of each Designated Subsidiary that is a limited liability company, is owned by Ventas, directly or through Subsidiaries.
 
(v) Each of the Master Leases and the master lease agreement, dated as of November 1, 2002, between Ventas Realty and certain entities related to Trans Healthcare, Inc., has been duly authorized by one or more of Ventas and its Subsidiaries, as applicable, and is a valid and binding agreement of Ventas and/or such Subsidiaries, as the case may be, enforceable in accordance with its terms, except as such enforceability, may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar laws affecting creditor's rights generally or general equitable principles.
 
(vi) There is no contract, agreement or other document or instrument of a character that would be required to be described or referred to in the Offering Memorandum if the Offering Memorandum was a prospectus included in a registration statement under the 1933 Act other than those described or referred to therein or filed or incorporated by reference as exhibits thereto, and the descriptions thereof or references thereto are correct in all material respects.
 
(vii) The information in Ventas' 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, and 10-Qs for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2004 and June 30, 2004 under the caption "Legal Proceedings"; and the information in Ventas' 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 under the caption "Business  Dependence on Kindred"; and the information in the Offering Memorandum under the captions "Summary  Recent Developments"; insofar as such statements constitute a summary of legal matters, contracts, documents or proceedings referred to therein, fairly present in all material respects such legal matters, contracts, documents and proceedings.
 
(viii) The issuance, offer and sale of the Original Notes by the Issuers, the issuance and delivery of the Exchange Notes by the Issuers, the execution, delivery and performance of the Note Documents by the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors, as applicable, and the consummation by the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors of the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement, does not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of or a default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of any of Ventas or the Subsidiaries, pursuant to any of the agreements that are described or referred to in the Offering Memorandum to which Ventas or any of its Subsidiaries are a party or that are filed, or incorporated by reference as an exhibit to any of Ventas' filings incorporated by reference into the Offering Memorandum, other than such violations, conflicts, breaches, defaults, failure to obtain consents or liens, charges or encumbrances not reasonably likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
A. The opinion set forth in paragraph (iv) above with respect to Ventas' direct or indirect ownership of ElderTrust is not based upon a review of the corporate stock transfer ledger but instead is based solely upon a review of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 19, 2003 (the "ElderTrust Merger Agreement"), among Ventas, Ventas Sub, LLC and ElderTrust, and the certificate of merger filed in connection therewith. The opinion set forth in
 
paragraph (iv) above with respect to Ventas' direct or indirect ownership of ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership is also based upon a review of certain purchase agreements executed in connection with the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the ElderTrust Merger Agreement, pursuant to which purchase agreements Ventas or its Subsidiaries purchased partnership interests of ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership.
 
In addition to the matters set forth above, based upon my participation in the preparation of the Offering Memorandum, including the documents incorporated therein by reference, and my review and discussion with other representatives of the Company of the content thereof, but without having undertaken to verify, check or independently determine the accuracy or completeness or fairness of the statements of fact contained therein, I have no reason to believe that the Offering Memorandum or any amendment or supplement thereto (except for financial statements and schedules and other financial data included or incorporated by reference therein or omitted therefrom, as to which I need make no statement), at the time the Offering Memorandum was issued, at the time any such amended or supplemented Offering Memorandum was issued or at the Closing Time, included or includes an untrue statement of a material fact, or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
Such opinion shall not state that it is to be governed or qualified by, or that it is otherwise subject to, any treatise, written policy or other document relating to legal opinions, including, without limitation, the Legal Opinion Accord of the ABA Section of Business Law (1991).
 
 
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership
 
Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C.
 
Ventas Finance I, LLC
 
Ventas Finance I, Inc.
 
Ventas Capital Corporation
 
ElderTrust
 
ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership
 
Exhibit A-2
 
 
The opinion of Willkie Farr & Gallagher LLP, counsel for the Ventas Entities (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Purchase Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(d)(ii) of the Purchase Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
(i) Each of Ventas and Ventas Capital Corporation (a) is a corporation validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and (b) has all requisite corporate power and authority necessary to own its property and carry on its business as now being conducted and to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Note Documents to which it is a party, and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby to be consummated on its part.
 
(ii) Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership (a) is a limited partnership in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and (b) has all partnership power and authority necessary to own its property and carry on its business as now being conducted, and to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Note Documents to which it is a party and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby to be consummated on its part.
 
(iii) Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C. (a) is a limited liability company in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and (b) has all limited liability company power and authority necessary to own its property and carry on its business as now being conducted, and to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Note Documents to which it is a party and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby to be consummated on its part.
 
(iv) Each of the other Guarantors that are listed on Schedule I hereto (the "Designated Guarantors") (a) is validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, and (b) has all requisite corporate, partnership or limited liability company power and authority necessary to own its property and carry on its business as now being conducted and to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Note Documents to which it is a party and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby to be consummated on its part.
 
(v) Each of the Issuers has duly authorized (a) the Original Notes for issuance and sale pursuant to the Purchase Agreement and the Indenture and (b) the Exchange Notes for issuance in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Exchange Offer and the Indenture.
 
(vi) Each of the Ventas Entities and the Designated Guarantors has duly authorized the execution, delivery and performance of the Note Documents to which it is a party, and has duly executed and delivered each Note Document to which it is a party (other than the Exchange Notes and the Exchange Note Guarantees).
 
(vii) The Indenture is the legally valid and binding obligation of the Ventas Entities and Guarantors, enforceable against each of them in accordance with its terms (subject to (a) customary bankruptcy exception and equitable principles limitation and (b) with respect to the Guarantors (other than the Designated Guarantors), customary assumptions relating to (1) the valid existence and good standing of such entities under the applicable state laws, (2) the corporate, partnership, limited liability company or other power and authority to own their property and carry on their business as now being conducted and to execute, deliver and perform all of their obligations under the Note Documents to which they are a party and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby to be consummated on their part and (3) the due authorization, execution and delivery by such entities of the Note Documents to which they are parties (the assumptions described in clauses (b)(1), (2) and (3) above, the "Assumptions")).
 
(viii) The Original Notes are in the form contemplated by the Indenture and, when issued and delivered by Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership and Ventas Capital Corporation (collectively, the "Issuers") against payment by the Initial Purchasers in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement and the Indenture and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in accordance with the terms of the Indenture, will be the legally valid and binding obligations of the Issuers, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Issuers in accordance with their terms (subject to (a) customary bankruptcy exception and equitable principles limitation and (b) the Assumptions).
 
(ix) The Exchange Notes, when issued, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Exchange Offer and the Indenture, will be the legally valid and binding obligations of the Issuers, entitled to the benefits of the Indenture and enforceable against the Issuers in accordance with their terms (subject to (a) customary bankruptcy exception and equitable principles limitation and (b) the Assumptions).
 
(x) The Guarantees are in the form contemplated by the Indenture and, when the Original Notes are issued, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement and the Indenture, will be the legally valid and binding obligations of the issuing entities, enforceable against each of them in accordance with their terms (subject to (a) customary bankruptcy exception and equitable principles limitation and (b) the Assumptions).
 
(xi) The Exchange Note Guarantees, when the Exchange Notes are issued, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement, the Exchange Offer and the Indenture, will be the legally valid and binding obligations of the issuing entities, enforceable against each of them in accordance with
 
their terms (subject to (a) customary bankruptcy exception and equitable principles limitation and (b) the Assumptions).
 
(xii) The Registration Rights Agreement is the legally valid and binding obligation of each of the Ventas Entities party thereto, enforceable against each of them in accordance with its terms (subject to customary bankruptcy exception and equitable principles limitation and indemnity qualification).
 
(xiii) The execution, delivery and performance by the Ventas Entities and the Guarantors of the Note Documents, as applicable, including the consummation of the transactions contemplated in the Purchase Agreement and in the Offering Memorandum (including the issuance and sale of the Original Notes and the use of the proceeds from the sale of the Original Notes as described in the Offering Memorandum under the caption "Use of Proceeds" and the issuance of the Exchange Notes), does not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of or a default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of any of Ventas or its subsidiaries set forth on Schedule II hereto (each, a "Designated Subsidiary"), pursuant to, (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of Ventas or its Designated Subsidiaries, (ii) any federal or New York law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to Ventas or any of its Designated Subsidiaries or their respective assets or properties, or any provision of the DGCL applicable to the Ventas Entities or any Designated Guarantor, or (iii) any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over Ventas or any of its Designated Subsidiaries or their respective assets or properties and known to us.
 
(xiv) No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing, registration, qualification, license or permit of or with, any federal or New York court or governmental agency, body or administrative agency, is required to be obtained or made by Ventas or any Designated Subsidiary for the execution, delivery and performance by Ventas and the Designated Guarantors of the Note Documents to which they are party, including the consummation of any of the transactions contemplated thereby and in the Offering Memorandum, including the offering, issuance, sale or delivery of the Original Notes and the issuance and delivery of the Exchange Notes, except (i) such as have been or will be obtained or made on or prior to the Closing Time, (ii) registration of the Exchange Offer or resale of the Notes under the 1933 Act pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, (iii) qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act in connection with the issuance of the Exchange Notes and (iv) such as may be required under the blue sky laws of any jurisdiction in connection with the purchase and distribution of the Notes by the Initial Purchasers.
 
(xv) To our knowledge, (i) there does not exist any judgment, order, injunction or other restraint issued or filed with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement or in the Offering Memorandum or the performance by the Ventas Entities or the Designated Guarantors of their respective obligations under the Note Documents, as applicable, and (ii) there are no legal or governmental proceedings
 
pending to which Ventas or any Designated Subsidiary is a party or to which any of the properties of Ventas or any Designated Subsidiary is subject other than proceedings described in the Offering Memorandum or that are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably likely to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(xvi) Neither Ventas nor any Subsidiary is, or after receipt of payment for the Original Notes will be, an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" incorporated in the United States within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
(xvii) Assuming the accuracy of the representations and warranties and compliance with the agreements contained in the Purchase Agreement, no registration under the 1933 Act of the Original Notes or the Guarantees or qualification of the Indenture under the Trust Indenture Act is required for the initial sale of the Original Notes to the Initial Purchasers as contemplated by the Purchase Agreement and in the Offering Memorandum or for the initial Exempt Resales.
 
(xviii) Each of the Indenture, the Original Notes, the Guarantees and the Registration Rights Agreement conforms in all material respects to the description thereof contained in the Offering Memorandum.
 
(xix) The statements in the Offering Memorandum under the captions "Description of Notes," and "Description of Other Indebtedness," insofar as such statements constitute a summary of applicable laws, rules or regulations, contracts, documents or legal proceedings referred to therein, fairly present in all material respects such applicable laws, rules or regulations, contracts, documents and legal proceedings.
 
(xx) Each Ventas Entity and Designated Guarantor is duly qualified as a foreign corporation to transact business and is in good standing in each jurisdiction listed on Schedule III to this opinion.
 
(xxi) The documents incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum (other than the financial statements and supporting schedules included therein or omitted therefrom, as to which we need express no opinion), when they became effective or were filed with the Commission, as the case may be, complied as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the 1933 Act or the 1934 Act, as applicable, and the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 
(xxii) The discussion in the Offering Memorandum under the caption "Material United States Federal Income Tax Considerations" to the extent that it summarizes matters of federal income tax law, fairly summarizes such matters in all material respects. For purposes of this opinion (xxii), the term "Offering Memorandum" does not include the documents incorporated by reference in the Offering Memorandum.
 
We have participated in the preparation of the Offering Memorandum. We have had discussions with officers, directors and employees of Ventas and the Subsidiaries, the independent accountants who examined the consolidated financial statements of Ventas included in the Offering Memorandum and the Initial Purchasers at which the contents of the Offering
 
Memorandum and related matters were discussed. We have not independently verified and are not passing upon, and do not assume responsibility for, the accuracy, completeness or fairness (except as set forth above) of the information contained in the Offering Memorandum. Based upon the participation and discussions described above, however, no facts have come to our attention that cause us to believe that the Offering Memorandum or any amendment or supplement thereto, as of its date or as of the date hereof, contained or contains an untrue statement of a material fact, or omitted or omits to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading (it being understood that we have not been requested to and do not make any comment with respect to the financial statements and the notes thereto and the other financial and accounting data, included in the Offering Memorandum).
 
 
Ventas Finance I, Inc.
 
ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership
 
 
Ventas Realty, Limited Partnership
 
Ventas LP Realty, L.L.C.
 
Ventas Finance I, LLC
 
Ventas Finance I, Inc.
 
Ventas Capital Corporation
 
ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership
 
 
 
Exhibit A-3
 
 
The opinion of counsel for ElderTrust (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Purchase Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(d)(iii) of the Purchase Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
(i) ElderTrust (a) is a qualified REIT subsidiary, validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Maryland, and (b) has all requisite corporate, partnership or limited liability company power and authority necessary to own its property and carry on its business as now being conducted and to execute, deliver and perform all of its obligations under the Note Documents to which it is a party and to consummate the transactions contemplated thereby to be consummated on its part.
 
(ii) ElderTrust has duly authorized the execution, delivery and performance of the Note Documents to which it is a party and has duly executed and delivered each such Note Document, other than the Exchange Notes and the Exchange Note Guarantees.
 
(iii) The execution, delivery and performance by ElderTrust of the Note Documents does not and will not violate, conflict with or constitute a breach of any of the terms or provisions of or a default under (or an event that with notice or the lapse of time, or both, would constitute a default), or require consent under, or result in the creation or imposition of a lien, charge or encumbrance on any property or assets of any of Ventas or its Subsidiaries, pursuant to, (i) the charter, bylaws or other constitutive documents of ElderTrust, (ii) any state or local law, statute, rule or regulation applicable to ElderTrust or its respective assets or properties, or (iii) any judgment, order or decree of any domestic or foreign court or governmental agency or authority having jurisdiction over ElderTrust or its respective assets or properties and known to us.
 
Exhibit A-4
 
 
The opinion of Greenberg Traurig, LLP, regulatory counsel for the Ventas Entities (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings provided in the Purchase Agreement, to which this is an Exhibit), to be delivered pursuant to Section 5(d)(iv) of the Purchase Agreement shall be to the effect that:
 
 
 
 
 


