FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20050906143233.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference in this Item 9.01(b) is Ventas, Inc.'s unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the six months ended June 30, 2005.
 
 
 
 
Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. ("Brookdale") is neither subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") nor required to file with the Commission reports containing any financial or other information. The audited and unaudited financial information related to Brookdale contained or incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K has been provided to Ventas, Inc. ("Ventas") by Brookdale. Ventas has not verified this information through an independent investigation or otherwise. Ventas has no reason to believe that such information is inaccurate in any material respect, but Ventas cannot provide assurance that all such information is accurate. Ventas is providing this data for informational purposes only.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
On June 7, 2005, Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise requires, "Ventas," "we," "us" or "our") acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Provident Senior Living Trust (together with its subsidiaries, "Provident").
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information sets forth:
 
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial information should be read together with our historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the historical consolidated financial statements of Provident. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income is presented as if the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2005 for comparative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what the actual combined results of operations of Ventas and Provident would have been for the period presented, nor does it purport to represent the results of future periods. The unaudited pro forma adjustments are based on available information and upon assumptions that our management believes are reasonable.
 
Dated : September 6, 2005
 
 
 
(A) Reflects our historical results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2005.
 
(B) Reflects historical results of operations of Provident for the period January 1, 2005 to June 6, 2005 (date of acquisition).
 
(C) Represents adjustments to record the merger between Provident and us based upon the assumed purchase price of $1.3 billion. The calculation of the total estimated merger acquisition cost is as follows (in thousands):
 
 
(D) Reflects a reduction in expense due to the termination of Provident's Long-Term Incentive Plan ("LTIP") as a result of our acquisition of Provident. All units outstanding under the LTIP were exchanged for Class D units of limited partnership interest ("ETOP Class D units") in ElderTrust Operating Limited Partnership, a Delaware partnership and operating partnership of Ventas ("ETOP"), upon consummation of the acquisition. The holders of the ETOP Class D units may convert the units to shares of our common stock.
 
(E) Reflects depreciation expense on the Provident properties. Based on the preliminary purchase price allocation, we expect to allocate $0.1 billion to land, $1.0 billion to buildings and improvements and $0.1 billion to equipment and fixtures. Depreciation expense is calculated on a straight line basis based on our purchase price allocation and using a 35-year life for buildings and permanent structural improvements and a 5-year life for equipment and fixtures. Depreciation related to the Provident acquisition is summarized as follows:
 
(F) Reflects interest expense for debt issued in connection with our financing of the purchase of Provident and to prepay the Provident revolving line of credit summarized as follows:
 
 
Interest expense for debt issued is summarized as follows:
 
 
(G) Reflects reduction in minority interest, which was acquired by us in connection with our acquisition of Provident.
 
(H) Reflects the issuance of 14,999,076 shares of our common stock, which was a component of the consideration paid by us to acquire Provident. The pro forma adjustment assumes that all common units of limited partnership interest in PSLT OP, L.P., a Delaware partnership, pursuant to Provident's LTIP are converted to our common stock.

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. (the "Company") is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Fortress Brookdale Acquisition LLC, a Delaware limited liability company ("Fortress Brookdale"), substantially all of the membership interests in which are held by Fortress Registered Investment Trust, Health Partners, a Bermuda exempted partnership, and certain of their respective affiliates. The Company operates in the senior independent and assisted living segment, which provides services to the elderly through facilities located in urban and suburban areas of major metropolitan markets.
 
On October 19, 2004, Fortress Brookdale sold 100% of the common stock of the Company ("Old Brookdale") to Provident Senior Living Trust ("Provident"). Prior to the sale, Old Brookdale was renamed and certain assets and liabilities were distributed to a newly formed subsidiary of Fortress Brookdale subsequently named Brookdale Living Communities, Inc. ("New Brookdale"). For financial reporting purposes the prior and continuing operations are New Brookdale.
 
The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the properties owned or leased by the Company. As of June 30, 2005, the Company owned or leased 51 properties (9,912 units) and managed, or served as management consultant, with respect to 30 properties (7,188 units) for third party and affiliated owners. See attached Schedule of Facilities.
 
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for interim information ("GAAP"). Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for complete financial statements. In the opinion of management, all adjustments considered necessary for a fair presentation have been included. Operating results for such interim periods are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for a full fiscal year.
 
Reference is hereby made to the Company's consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2004 for complete financial statements and notes. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
 
Principles of Consolidation
 
In December 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Interpretation No. 46, , an interpretation of ARB No. 51 ("FIN 46R"). This Interpretation addresses the consolidation by business enterprises of primary beneficiaries in variable interest entities ("VIE") as defined in the Interpretation.
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities
 
The Company developed and managed five facilities for third party entities in which the Company has guaranteed certain debt obligations and has the right to purchase or lease the facilities (as defined). The Company has evaluated its relationship with the entities pursuant to FIN 46R and determined they are VIE's of which the Company is the primary beneficiary. The Company elected to adopt FIN 46R as of December 31, 2003 and accordingly, consolidated the entities as of December 31, 2003. The consolidated assets and liabilities of the entities primarily consist of property, plant and equipment and related debt.
 
 
The following are the development facilities:
 
 
On March 1, 2005, the Company obtained legal title to four of the VIE's (The Meadows of Glen Ellyn, The Heritage of Raleigh, Trillium Place and The Hallmark of Creve Coeur facilities). As these four VIE's were previously consolidated pursuant to FIN 46R, the legal acquisition of the facilities had minimal accounting impact. At June 30, 2005, The Hallmark, Battery Park City continues to be consolidated pursuant to FIN 46R.
 
Use of Estimates
 
The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions.
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
The Company considers all investments with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.
 
Resident Fee Revenue
 
Resident fee revenue is recorded when services are rendered and consists of fees for basic housing, support services and fees associated with additional services such as personalized health and assisted living care. Residency agreements are generally for a term of one year.
 
Management Fee Revenue
 
Management fee revenue is recorded as services are provided to the owners of the facilities. Revenues are determined by an agreed upon percentage of gross revenues (as defined).
 
Cash and Investments - Restricted
 
Non-current cash and investments - restricted consist principally of deposits required by certain lenders and lessors pursuant to the applicable agreement.
 
Investment in Unconsolidated Ventures
 
The equity method of accounting has been applied in the accompanying financial statements with respect to the Company's investment in unconsolidated ventures that are not considered VIE's as the Company does not possess a controlling financial interest in the ventures (note 3).
 
 
Income Taxes
 
Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability approach, which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. A valuation allowance reduces deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.
 
Property, Plant and Equipment
 
Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation. Expenditures for ordinary maintenance and repairs are expensed to operations as incurred. Renovations and improvements, which improve and/or extend the useful life of the asset are capitalized and depreciated over their estimated useful life, or if the renovations or improvements are made with respect to facilities subject to an operating lease, over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the renovations or improvements, or the term of the operating lease.
 
In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144 , the Company will record impairment losses on long-lived assets used in operations when events and circumstances indicate that the assets might be impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by those assets during the expected hold period are less than the carrying amounts of those assets. Impairment losses will be measured as the difference between carrying value and fair value of assets.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets
and Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed
 
The Company allocates the purchase price of properties to net tangible and identified intangible assets acquired based on their fair values in accordance with the provisions SFAS No. 141 . In making estimates of the fair values of the tangible and intangible assets for purposes of allocating purchase price, the Company considers information obtained about each property as a result of its pre-acquisition due diligence, marketing, leasing activities and independent appraisals.
Business Combinations
 
The Company allocates a portion of the purchase price to the value of leases acquired based on the difference between the property valued with existing in-place leases adjusted to market rental rates and the property valued as if vacant. Factors management considers in its analysis include an estimate of carrying costs during the expected lease-up periods considering current market conditions and costs to execute similar leases. In estimating carrying costs, management includes estimates of lost rentals during the lease-up period and estimated costs to execute similar leases. The value of in-place leases is amortized to expense over the remaining initial term of the respective leases.
 
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of assets, which are as follows:
 
 
Deferred Costs
 
Deferred financing and lease costs are recorded at cost and amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the level yield method, over the term of the related debt or lease.
 
 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
Cash and cash equivalents, cash and investments-restricted and variable rate debt are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at amounts considered by management to reasonably approximate fair value. Management estimates the fair value of its long-term fixed rate debt using a discounted cash flow analysis based upon the Company's current borrowing rate for debt with similar maturities. As of June 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the fair value of our fixed-rate debt approximates book value.
 
Derivative Financial Instruments
 
In the normal course of business, the Company uses a variety of financial instruments to manage or hedge interest rate risk. The Company has entered into certain interest rate protection and swap agreements to effectively cap or convert floating rate debt to a fixed rate basis, fixed rate debt to a floating rate basis, as well as to hedge anticipated future financing transactions. Derivative financial instruments are recognized as either an asset or liability in the consolidated balance sheet at fair value. The change in mark-to-market of the value of the derivative is recorded as an adjustment to income or other comprehensive income (loss) depending upon whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship.
 
The Company does not enter into derivative contracts for trading or speculative purposes. Furthermore, the Company has a policy of only entering into contracts with major financial institutions based upon their credit rating and other factors.
 
Comprehensive Income
 
SFAS No. 130 "" establishes guidelines for the reporting and display of comprehensive income and it's components in financial statements. Comprehensive income includes net income and all other non-owner changes in stockholder's equity during a period including unrealized fair value adjustments on certain derivative instruments. Comprehensive loss for the six months ended June 30, 2005 equals $13,533.
Reporting Comprehensive Income
 
Goodwill
 
Goodwill relates to Fortress Brookdale's acquisition of the Company in 2000. This cost is not amortized and the Company performs an annual impairment test in accordance with SFAS No. 142 . The Company will record impairment losses on the excess of cost over net assets acquired when events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Impairment losses are measured as the difference between carrying value and fair value of the Company's net assets.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
Facility Leases
 
The Company, as lessee, makes a determination with respect to each of the facility leases whether they should be accounted for as operating leases or capital leases. The Company bases its classification criteria on estimates regarding the fair value of the leased facility, minimum lease payments, the Company's effective cost of funds, the economic life of the facility and certain other terms in the lease agreements. The initial lease terms vary from 15 to 20 years. Certain of the leases provide for renewal and purchase options and have graduated lease payments which the Company recognizes on a straight-line basis over the term of the leases.
 
A summary of lease expense and the impact of straight-line adjustments and amortization of deferred gain are as follows:
 
 
 
Reclassifications
 
Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current financial statement presentation, with no effect on the Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.
 
 
GFB-AS Investors, LLC
 
As of June 30, 2005 and 2004, the Company has management consulting and supervisory agreements with three and 19 properties, respectively, of the GC Property Partnerships providing for a fee of 2.8% of the gross revenues generated by the respective GC Property Partnership. Management fees from the GC Property Partnerships totaled $210 and $597 for the six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
During the quarter ended March 31, 2004, the limited partnerships that owned 14 GC Facilities in which GFB had general and limited partnership interests, sold the facilities to Ventas, Inc. Upon the sale of the 14 GC Facilities and one additional GC Facility, the Company received approximately $9,228 in relation to its investment in loans receivable and $3,989 in relation to its general and limited partnership interests in the various partnerships. The Company did not recognize any gain or loss related to these transactions.
 
Brookdale Senior Housing, LLC
 
On September 30, 2003, the Company formed Brookdale Senior Housing, LLC joint venture ("Venture") with a third party and effectively sold 75% of its interest in the Southfield and Mt. Lebanon facilities. The Venture owns the Southfield and Mt. Lebanon facilities and provided mezzanine financing for the Austin facility. The Venture was capitalized with $66,328 of cash of which $144 was contributed by the Company and the balance of $66,184 from the Venture partner in the form of $35,829 of equity and $30,355 first mortgage financing. The first mortgage loans are secured by the Southfield and Mt. Lebanon facilities payable interest only at the rate of 6.75% through September 30, 2008 and 7.25% through maturity on October 1, 2009. The difference between the carrying amount of this investment and the value of the underlying equity is depreciated as an adjustment to income from unconsolidated joint ventures.
 
The Venture made a $12,739 mezzanine loan to the Austin facility. Terms of the mezzanine loan require the Austin facility to pay interest at the rate of all available cash flow, as defined, and entitle the Venture to receive all appreciation in the facility. In addition, the venture partner made a first mortgage loan of $16,422 secured by the Austin facility and on the same terms as the Southfield and Mt. Lebanon first mortgage loans (note 4).
 
Terms of the Venture agreement provide that all operating cash flow is distributed to the venture partner until they receive a 16% cumulative preferred return and then 60% to the venture partner and 40% to the Company. Sale or refinancing proceeds are to be distributed first to the venture partner until they receive their cumulative preferred return; second to the venture partner until they receive the return of their contributed equity; and then 60% to the venture partner and 40% to the Company. Additional capital contributions, if any, are to be contributed 75% by the venture partner and 25% by the Company.
 
 
The Company manages the properties for a fee equal to 5% of gross revenues (as defined). Under certain limited circumstances the venture partner has the right to terminate the management agreement.
 
Combined summarized financial information for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005 and 2004 of the unconsolidated joint ventures accounted for using the equity method is as follows:
 
 
 
 
Line of Credit Agreement
 
At June 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the Company had available unsecured lines of credit of $18,600 ($8,600 is only available for certain letters of credit) of which there were no borrowings and $7,419 and $7,230 of outstanding letters of credit, respectively. Borrowings under the line of credit accrue interest at the prime rate plus 1.00% (prime rate 6.25% and 5.25% at June 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively). The Company must pay a quarterly fee of 1/8% per annum on the unused amounts under the lines of credit during the quarter. Pursuant to the terms of the credit agreement, the Company must maintain certain debt service coverage ratios. The line of credit matures on May 31, 2006.
 
 
As of June 30, 2005 and December 31, 2004, the Company has additional outstanding letters of credit totaling $3,292 with a second financial institution to secure the Company's obligations for its self-insured retention risk under its various insurance policies.
 
Long-term Debt
 
Long-term debt consists of the following:
 
 
 
The Company recorded the following interest rate swap and forward-starting interest rate swaps when it consolidated the developmental properties in accordance with FIN 46R on December 31, 2003.
 
 
Terminated Forward Interest Rate Swaps
 
The Company had four 10-year forward interest rate swaps to fix $97,300 of future mortgage debt at 7.03% - 7.325% with a maturity date of August 2012 to March 2013. The terms of the forward interest rate swaps require the Company to pay a fixed-interest rate to the counterparties and to receive 90 day LIBOR from the counterparties. The forward interest rate swaps are included in other long-term liabilities at December 31, 2004. Included in cash and investments-restricted at December 31, 2004 were deposits of $8,004 to collateralize the Company's forward interest rate swap obligations.
 
On March 30, 2005, the Company terminated the forward interest rate swaps in exchange for a payment to the counterparty of $15,807, including accrued interest of $1,742, which was funded by a $10,000 loan (note 4) and cash on deposit with the counterparty. For the six months ended June 30, 2005, the fair value of the interest rate and forward interest rate swaps liability decreased by $4,062 which is recorded as an adjustment to interest expense in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
Interest Rate Swaps
 
The Company had one interest rate swap agreement that converts $37,320 of its floating-rate construction debt to a fixed-rate basis of 5.19% through maturity on April 1, 2005. This interest rate swap agreement was designated as a fair value hedge. The market value of the fair value hedge at December 31, 2004 was a liability of $246, which is included in other current liabilities.
 
During March 2005, the Company entered into interest rate swaps in the notional amount of $182,000 to hedge a potion of its floating rate debt under which it pays an average fixed rate of 4.64% and receive 30 day LIBOR from the counterparty. The interest rate swaps are comprised of $145,000 seven-year swap at an average fixed rate of 4.71% and $37,000 three-year swap at a fixed rate of 4.40%. The Company posted $2,250 as collateral and is required to post additional collateral based on changes in the fair value of the swaps ($5,190 at June 30, 2005). The swaps are treated as cash flow hedges with unrealized gains or losses recorded as the comprehensive income. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparty to an interest rate swap agreement however; it does not anticipate non-performance by the counterparty.
 
 
Income taxes were a provision of $0 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005, compared to a provision of $3,950 and $2,635 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2004. The provision for income taxes is composed of the following:
 
 
 
A reconciliation of the provision for income taxes to the amount computed at the U.S. federal statutory rate of 34% for 2005 and 2004 is as follows:
 
 
As disclosed in Note 2, the Company adopted FIN 46R as of December 31, 2003 and consolidated the VIE's for financial reporting purposes. For Federal and state income tax purposes, prior to the purchase of four of the VIE's on March 1, 2005, the Company was not the legal owner of the entities, and accordingly, is not entitled to receive tax benefits generated from the losses associated with these VIE's.
 
At December 31, 2004 the Company had net operating loss carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $21,053 and $26,773, respectively, which are available to offset future taxable income, if any, through 2024. The Company has recorded a valuation allowance due to uncertainties regarding the Company's ability to utilize these losses in the future.
 
 
On April 6 and 14, 2005, the Company entered into agreements with affiliates of Fortress Brookdale to manage eight continuing care retirement communities (3,238 units) for a fee of 4-6% of gross revenues and 3% of net entrance fees. Two facilities (422 units) are held for sale, one of which was sold July 1, 2005. The Company was retained as the facility manager.
 
On June 21, 2005 and July 22, 2005, the Company entered into agreements with affiliates of Fortress Brookdale to manage eight and one facilities, respectively, (1,261 units) for a fee of 4-6% of gross revenues.
 
 
The Company is involved in various lawsuits and is subject to various claims arising in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, although the outcomes of these suits and claims are uncertain, in the aggregate, they should not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations.
 
 
On August 10, 2005, Brookdale Senior Living Inc., an affiliate of Fortress Investment Holdings ("FIH"), filed a registration statement on Form S-1 (No. 333-127372) with the Securities and Exchange Commission to register an initial public offering up to $200,000 of its common stock, par value $.01 ("IPO"). Brookdale Senior Living Inc. is a holding company formed in June 2005, for the purposes of combining, through a series of mergers, the Company and Alterra Healthcare Company ("Alterra"), affiliates of FIH are the majority shareholder of both the Company and Alterra. In addition, affiliates of FIH are expected to contribute the facilities managed by Fortress Brookdale to Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (see note 7). The combination transaction has not been completed and there can be no assurance that the IPO or the combination transaction will be completed or on the terms described in the filing.
 
 
 
 
 


