FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20051202172628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Not applicable.
 
 
Filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference in this Item 9.01(b) is Ventas, Inc.'s unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the nine months ended September 30, 2005.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
On June 7, 2005, Ventas, Inc. (together with its subsidiaries, except where the context otherwise requires, "Ventas," "we," "us" or "our") acquired all of the outstanding common shares of Provident Senior Living Trust (together with its subsidiaries, "Provident").
 
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information sets forth:
 
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma financial information should be read together with our historical consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the historical consolidated financial statements of Provident. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income is presented as if the acquisition occurred on January 1, 2005 for comparative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of what the actual combined results of operations of Ventas and Provident would have been for the period presented, nor does it purport to represent the results of future periods. The unaudited pro forma adjustments are based on available information and upon assumptions that our management believes are reasonable.
 
Dated: December 2, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest expense for debt issued is summarized as follows:
 
 
 


