FILE:VTR/VTR-8K-20050124144244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry Into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Ventas, Inc. (the "Company") provides its executive officers with the opportunity to receive an annual incentive cash bonus based on the attainment of certain Company and individual goals and maintains a long-term incentive award program. On January 18, 2005, the Company's Executive Compensation Committee (the "Committee") took the following actions with respect to such programs:
 
The Committee determined the performance measures and potential bonus amounts under the annual incentive cash bonus program for 2005 performance for each of the executive officers. The performance measures under the 2005 annual incentive cash bonus program are: funds from operations growth (weighted 30%), implementation of the Company's growth and diversification strategy (weighted 40%), and individual management objectives (weighted 30%). The Committee established threshold, target and maximum levels for each of these performance measures. The actual bonuses payable for the 2005 year, if any, will vary depending on how actual performance compares to the threshold, target and maximum levels for each performance measure. Bonus payouts to executives, depending on their position, for threshold performance will range from one-half to one times their base salary, for target performance will range from one to two and one-half times their base salary and for maximum performance will range from one and one-half to four times their base salary.
 
The Committee also approved the structure for 2005 long-term incentive compensation for executive officers of the Company. 2005 long-term incentive awards for executive officers will be comprised of stock options (weighted 20%), restricted stock/restricted stock units (weighted 40%) and a three-year deferred incentive cash program (weighted 40%). The long-term incentive awards are to be determined by the Committee in its discretion, based upon factors such as total shareholder return, growth in funds from operations, Company values and reputation, effective diversification, capital markets execution, credit characteristics of the Company and other factors deemed relevant by the Committee. Total long-term incentive awards to executives, depending on their position, will range from one-half to four times their base salary. Under the deferred incentive cash program for 2005, payout amounts, if any, will be determined by the Committee in January 2008, for the period 2005 to 2007.
 
The Committee approved the granting of restricted stock units as an alternative to restricted stock. A form of restricted stock unit agreement is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)
Financial Statements of Businesses Acquired.
 
      Not applicable.
 
(b)
Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
      Not applicable.
 
(c)
Exhibits:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 
("Agreement") is made and entered into as of the day of , by and between VENTAS, INC., a Delaware corporation ("Company"), and , an employee of the Company ("Employee").
THIS RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT
            
                    
                    
 
RECITALS:
 
A. Company has adopted the 2000 Incentive Compensation Plan ("Plan") to promote the interests of Company, its subsidiaries (hereinafter the term "Company" includes, where appropriate, all of Company's subsidiaries, as that term is defined in Section 424(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("Code")) and its stockholders by encouraging selected employees of Company, such as Employee, to have an interest in Company's shares of Common Stock, having a par value of $.25 per share.
 
B. Company believes that such interest should increase the personal interest and special efforts of Employee in providing for the continued success and progress of Company and should enhance the efforts of Company to attract and retain competent key employees.
 
AGREEMENT:
 
, the parties agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
 
. Employee is granted Restricted Stock Units ("Units") under the Plan.
1.
Issuance of Units
                    
 
. If Employee has not forfeited any of the Units, one-third of the Units will vest on , an additional one-third of the Units will vest on , and the balance of the Units will vest on . Notwithstanding the foregoing, (A) immediately preceding a Change in Control or (B) in the event of the death or Disability of Employee [or (C) in the event of termination of the Employee's employment by the Company without Cause or by the Employee with Good Reason (as such terms are defined in the Employee's employment agreement)], the Units shall automatically vest.
2.
Vesting of Units
                    
                    
                    
 
. If Employee ceases to be an Employee of the Company for any reason other than death or Disability [or termination of the Employee's employment by the Company without Cause or by the Employee with Good Reason (as such terms are defined in the Employee's employment agreement)], all of the Units which have not vested in accordance with Section 2 of this Agreement shall be forfeited and Employee shall have no further rights with respect thereto.
3.
Forfeiture of Units
 
. Except as otherwise provided by a deferral election pursuant to Section 5 of this Agreement, vested Units shall be converted into Shares and
4.
Conversion of Units into Shares
distributed to Employee [on or about [] following the day when unvested Units become vested Units] [the earliest of, immediately preceding a Change in Control, or following the Employee's termination of employment].
date or period
[date]
[date or period]
 
If, however, the Employee elects to defer payment of Shares as provided in Section 5 of this Agreement, the Shares shall be issued as set forth in the Deferral Election Agreement entered into by the Employee and accepted by the Company.
 
. The Employee may elect to defer delivery of the Shares that would otherwise be due to be paid pursuant to Section 4. The Committee shall, in its sole discretion, establish the rules and procedures for such deferral elections and payment deferrals.
5.
Deferral Election
 
. The Employee shall be credited with dividend equivalents with respect to Units under this Agreement.
6.
Dividends
 
On each dividend or other distribution date with respect to Shares, a cash dollar amount equal to the amount of cash dividends or the fair market value of property other than Shares that would have been paid or distributed on a number of Shares equal to the number of Units held by the Employee as of the close of business on the record date for such dividend or distribution shall be paid in cash to such Employee. If any dividend or distribution with respect to Shares is payable in Shares, the Employee shall be credited with an additional number of Units equal to the product of the number of Units held by such Employee on the record date for such dividend or distribution multiplied by the number of Shares (including fractions thereof) distributable as a dividend or distribution on a Share. Units which are credited to the Employee pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be subject to the same terms and conditions of the Plan, this Agreement and elections applicable with respect to such Units with respect to which they relate.
 
. Except as set forth in Section 6, Employee shall have with respect to Units no voting or any other rights as a shareholder of the Company. Upon conversion of the Units into Shares, Employee shall have full voting and other rights as a shareholder of the Company.
7.
No Rights as Shareholder
 
. Employee acknowledges that determining the actual tax consequences to Employee of receiving Units or Shares or deferring or disposing of Units or Shares may be complicated. These tax consequences will depend, in part, on the Employee's specific situation and may also depend on the resolution of currently uncertain tax law and other variables not within the control of the Company. Employee is aware that Employee should consult a competent and independent tax advisor for a full understanding of the specific tax consequences to Employee of receiving, deferring or disposing of Units or Shares. Prior to executing this Agreement, Employee either has consulted with a competent tax advisor independent of the Company to obtain tax advice concerning the Units and Shares in light of the Employee's specific situation or has had the opportunity to consult with such a tax advisor but chose not to do so.
8.
Independent Tax Advice
 
. Employee agrees to make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment of any federal, state, local or foreign withholding tax obligations that arise with respect to this award of Units, including, without limitation, any FICA taxes upon
9.
Withholding
vesting of Units and income taxes upon the receipt of Shares. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Company has the right to deduct from payments of any kind otherwise due to Employee any federal, state or local taxes of any kind required by law to be withheld with respect this award of Units, including, without limitation, the receipt of Shares.
 
. Employee shall not Transfer any of the Units except to the extent permitted by the Committee. For the purposes of this Agreement, the term "Transfer" shall mean any sale, exchange, assignment, gift, encumbrance, lien, transfer by bankruptcy or judicial order, transfers by operation of law and all other types of transfers and dispositions, whether direct or indirect, voluntary or involuntary.
10.
Restriction on Transfer of Units
 
. The granting of Shares shall not be construed as granting to Employee any right to employment by the Company. The right of the Company to terminate Employee's employment at any time, whether by dismissal, discharge, retirement or otherwise, is specifically reserved.
11.
Agreement Does Not Grant Employment Rights
 
.
12.
General Provisions
 
. This Agreement is and shall be, in all respects, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, a copy of which Employee acknowledges receiving prior to the execution hereof and the terms of which are incorporated by reference.
a.
Incorporation of Plan
 
. The captions and section headings used herein are for convenience only, shall not be deemed a part of this Agreement and shall not in any way restrict or modify the context or substance of any section or paragraph of this Agreement.
b.
Captions
 
. This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to its conflict of laws rules.
c.
Governing Law
 
. All capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the same meanings as set forth in the Plan unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context.
d.
Defined Terms
 
, the parties have executed this Agreement on and as of the date first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 


